

=== FILE: 10 Questions with Coach Hassan Mansour [Ufi8xR5CaxQ].txt ===

How do you spell youretta the unlived in the lac hot The biggest mistake I see trenees make is mistaking trening and testing performance. So they come into trening sessions. They are looking to add weight or increase their performance sometimes at the expense of the trening effect of the actual session. Any hidden talents? Huh, I could repair things, but that doesn't think that's hidden. That's my past job. But I can't sing or joggle or anything like that. So no. Just because of someone's age, no, I think that's going to be a case by case basis. So I think someone's treninGHistory tells me much more about how to manage their trening than just an age. Deciding on which variation or accessories to prescribe for my athletes, I think that if I'm watching someone's technique on a certain lift and I think that an assistant sexer size or supplemental exercise will help correct efficiencies and technique. And by deficiencies, IMean stuff that takes away from them executing a certain lift with a consistent reproducible technique that they can use at a meet. Then I would use variations in that case as almost as drill work and to modify the fatigue throughout the week. I think that's going to come down to a liftor. You're going to assess each liftor and prescribe variations. That way, versus just shotgun variations all the time, just for the sake of variation. I think it'd go off the deep end. You can be too specific, but you can also just throw variation out there with no good reason and end up with less than ideal results. I like it. My favorite activity outside the gym. It's just walking like in a city. I don't have any recreational hobbies like tennis or golfer anything. I just like walking around in big cities. That's walking. Yeah, just walking through New York City or we walked around San Diego a bit yesterday. And that's it. Yeah, if that's what you mean by physical activity. My favorite can or revs the movie. It's definitely not speed. What is the, I think I'm forgetting the name of a movie I just watched. John Wick. John Wick. John Wick. John Wick 1, 2, 3. I think it was the latest one, 3. Okay, that's a favorite. I think that was good. Bill and Ted Dexlin, venture doesn't register. No, no, I'm not a huge can of Reeves. Whoa, yeah, cutting that out. It's the money. My typical breakfast today, I had Greek yogurt, blueberries, and I stole some of Lea's oats with coffee. That's what I had. That's a typical breakfast for you. Either that or just a shake and like some sort of fruit. I'm not a huge breakfast person. So I just try to get something down and that will carry me over to lunch. I'm not a big ass challenge. I have faced all my years of lifting. I don't think there's one particular moment. But it's been trying to reproduce a process that like I can, I can repeat to peak well for meats. I've always had great trening that would indicate much higher performances than I could usually get at a meat. So I think that's been one of those things. There's been various random eggs and pains and stuff like that. But I wouldn't consider those huge setbacks. I think one of the biggest challenges I have going forward is trying to recreate that peak, that peaking process. Lossia can clen and jerk 264 kilos. Does he have the potential to deadlift 500 kilos? I don't think so. One because 500 kilos is an insane amount. I don't see that clen and jerk in that deadlift being related. The trening for both of those things will be very different. The velocities are different. I think the person that excels at one or the others. It's probably going to be a different person too. Lossia is very strong. It's the money. I think coaching, it's watching people progress over the long-term, not just in numbers, but in their understanding of trening of how they go about the trening process and watching them develop that way. It's the money.

=== FILE: 10 Questions with Coach Leah Lutz [NO1FvmcCBeM].txt ===

So... C'mon, Victor! Hi, my name is Lielettes, and I am a Barbol Medicine Coach. What is the most common error that I see in trening? And I'm going to go with someone overthinking their lived or their trening. So they make everything seem a lot worse than it really is. Everything becomes a really big deal. when most of it is just, it doesn't matter. You just need to keep trening, keep going, you're fine. Perfect. Yep. Do I have any hidden talents? No, I don't think I do. I think I'm an open book. Like, here I am. Yep. Okay, do I have any specific advice for trening elderly individuals? I think my, I would start with consider what they need to start with. So don't come in with your set program that somebody else wrote down that doesn't apply to this particular person. Think about what this person's actual activity level is right now, what their needs are and what they're comfortable with and realize that moving forward and making improvements is the goal here, not like how much weight can we put on the bar, the fastest, how many trening sessions can we get this person in to do, but make this something they can keep up with on an ongoing basis and feel comfortable with. How do I pick which exercise variations someone does? So it definitely depends on the client because someone who is more of a general strength, trenee has I have a lot more room to move with something versus someone who's a competitor. So someone who's a competitor and has very specific goals in a timeline. I'm not gonna changEQuite as much. They're gonna have to work with them to stick with some general specific movements. But I care about what that client wants to do, what they know how to do, but also what they could learn how to do, some change, some variation, it really depends. I don't look at them and think, that's your one week spot. I will use this special movement to fix that. What do you think about this? My favorite activity outside the gym. I'd probably have to go with cooking, new things, baking, cooking, reading, everything related to that. So I watch cooking shows, read recipe books, follow chefs online and then I love to create things on my own. So my suggestion for one book to learn how to cook would probably be one of the classics, like the joy of cooking or anything in that line. Martha Stewart has won. There's a few others that are just, they walk you through the basics. What do you think about this? My favorite Kiana Reeves movie. Ha. I don't appreciate the fact they do ask me any question about a movie or a song. This is very mean of Jordan. I don't know. I don't even really like Kiana Reeves to be honest. I don't know about the movie. All right, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, we call you, my typical breakfast is oatmeal and then either egg whites or Greek yogurt. If I have Greek yogurt, I put blueberries in it. If I do not, then I put peanut butter in my oatmeal, mixed with egg whites. What? Yes, you heard that correctly. My personal best lifting moment. Probably no surprise for anyone who has seen some of my recent competition and that would be my third deadlift at raw nationals in 2019 when I pulled 175 kilos. It was the longest deadlift that I've ever pulled, but I got it. And for so many reasons, it was the winning lift of my life. Yeah, do you have any hidden talents? Okay. What is my general course of action? If someone has only one lift that is not responding to their programming, number one, we'd be a little bit of time. So just because sometimes people react too quickly to something not moving or changing, but I also have no trouble changing the, let's say the volume, the intensity. Sometimes I change the place in the programming, even of that lift to alter the way they look at their trening. There's a lot of options. Some don't pull it up, put something else in. For everything I could be, stop trening on that smooth button run. My favorite thing about working for Browbell Medicine first off who submitted this question. This is not me. Actually somebody asked me that in person yesterday, as well. And it's, I don't, it's really hard for me to say what my favorite thing is because I like almost every part of my job, literally. So I love having personal clients and building a relationship with them. I've had a lot of clients for a very long time, and I get to know them, and I see their ups and downs, but ultimately they're long-term progress, and they're success. But then I also love seminars, because I like the travel, meeting new people, seeing people went on one, and then I even like taking care of some of the back end stuff. Like all of it. Yep, I do. I even like the people I work with. So IMean, what can I say? That is, you don't need shock value, Tyran. I'm a con, kiddie island. What a native speaking. Oh no. Oh no. My cell hatred on a subconscious ram page. Why my naked-given speeches from a boys who have a man-kate. He's falling out in my page while I'm ranting. That was your answer. Team J-Lo or Team Shakira? I'm going to go with Team J-Lo. Why? Because she's older than I am. And she's still fantastic. Yeah.

=== FILE: 10 Questions with Dr. Austin Baraki [7nP5cpkJLeI].txt ===

I'm Dr. Austin Bracky, a physician and coach at Barbell Medicine. ThEQuestion is what's the most common error that I see in trenees? I think it's probably having inappropriate expectations about the nature of progression, strength adaptation, things like that in terms of over-interpreting ups and downs, expecting that the process is far more linear than it actually is in practice, both in trening and in rehab. Question is what people should do differently when trening old people? I think that probably one of the things that I tend to do more often is getting to know the person their beliefs and their expectations before I start so that I can reframe and do some education. A lot of people, particularly as they get older, they have self-perceptions of being more fragile or that exercise resistance trening is more threatening, more dangerous to them. And I think that I would aim to dispel that, build more confidence in self-evocacy and the process rather than reinforcing those and making them feel like a fragile, super special population. That's probably where I would start. Question is what is my favorite keyhoney-rease movie? I'm not good at remembering all of them off the top of my head. I feel like the most recent ones I rewatch were the Matrix series last year. So to be Bill and Ted's Exxon Adventure, Matrix, Speed, John Wick. Yeah, yeah, so I think it's probably close between the Matrix and John Wick. John Wick has just like brainless entertainment value. Matrix makes you think a little more, but that's what I do. Questions what I normally eat for breakfast is usually old-fashioned oats, not quick oats, like Jordan prefers mixed with some way usually. Do you play this in not an old-fashioned? Not an old-fashioned for breakfast, old-fashioned oats. Question is what is my favorite activity to do outside the gym? Lorraine and I like checking out new restaurants and trying different cocktails and things like that. That's usually our favorite thing to do. What is my favorite part about working with Barbell Medicine? I think that it has probably been the collaborative learning effects in terms of, you know, I could have ended up going through standard medical trening and becoming doctor like any other doctor out there, but I think I've developed a unique skill set in education and bouncing ideas off one another, has expanded things much morEQuickly and more broadly than we would have otherwise had. So hashtag range. Questions what is my personal best lifting moment? Man, I think my favorite was the first time I pulled 700. I knew it. IMean it's tough because squatting 500 for 10 will sweet too, but one our arms are, IMean better. Question is do I have any hidden talents? Not that I'm aware of. They're all on display. Yes, this is it. Open book. Questions, Lashuk and cleninger 264 does the other potential of deadlift 500? I think estimating people's potential is a fool's errand, but I think that whether he can pull 500 I think is probably unlikely. I think it's a low percentage shop. Yes. Who pulls 500? One person. Not anymore even. This is the last bunch of way. One person. Questions kind of what my initial approach is to somebody who has one lift that's not necessarily responding to the programming. So I try to get a sense of what their programminGHistory has been like, what they've tried, if they think anythinGHas worked better or worse than anything else. And then really it's just a matter of experimenting with some of the variables. So if they're doinGHigh specificity, IMight change them to low-respecitor introduced more variation. Adjust the dose of volume, might give them a higher dose of intensity. I don't think that there's a standard sequence that I necessarily go through, but we typically talk about programming in terms of the dose of trening and the formulation of trening. And so I think that typically I'll look at changing the formulation of trening if somebody's been working for a little while and nothing's responding. And then from there, if I get a little progress, then IMight bump up the dose from there. So formulation and dose is what we look at. ThEQuestion was Team J-Lo or Shakira? I think I'm leaning Team J-Lo. Did J-Lo anyway? I don't know. I don't know.

=== FILE: 10 Questions with Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum [K15DJ_VP_m8].txt ===

Alright, everyone. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. We bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host Dr. Dr. Jol and Vagmamp, we're a Coronado Beach San Diego. I literally just got off the golf course and the entire tire. It's also a sunset, slash golden hour. But the beach is closed. I wanted to get on the beach, but it's closed. This was supposed to be on the beach, but they closed it on the beach. It is what it is. Let's get to your questions. Alright, so thEQuestion is what to do if one lift isn't responding? So yeah, if the other two lifts or whatever lift you're deeming are important are responding, I probably wouldn't do anything about it in that particular trening block. But as far as what you go, what you do on the next step, the next trening block, I typically like to go pretty extreme with the changes. Meaning that if the exercise variation was relatively small, I want to go large. The volume was relatively low. I want to go up, but I want to build up to that over time, but I want to make a substantial enough change that we get things moving in the right direction. If we made a change that the person's going to respond to. So it's not necessarily just a week one little thing, because you're really a different organism at the start of that next block anyway. So I like to make pretty substantial changes. Even if it takes some time to gradually work into that, but yeah, I'm looking at exercise variation. I'm looking at total volume. If we're looking at maximal strength type stuff, then I also want to look at total average intensity. IMight ramp that up, depending on the previous trening and treninGHistory and with the preferences, or IMight go down. So there's no one answer, but typically my first moves are going to be exercise variation and volume for the most part provided that they were actually used trening appropriately before. ThEQuestion is, what is my the most commonly asked question? And honestly, you know, if we compile all the Instagram lives, all the emails, all the everything that we get, it's going to be, I have this injury, what do Dr. Barackie did? Create a great resource called pain and trening, what do? So I linked that in the description below. You should check that out. If you do have an injury, then you're like, I'm not sure what to do. That's where you start. And also, we do offer these pain and rehab consultations. And I know it seems like I'm just chilling for barbell medicine. But the thing is this, if trening and physical activity is your sport that you choose to pursue, or it's, you know, your recreational hobby that you care a lot about, the an absent of that or been missing that for extended period of time due to an injury, or, you know, as a lot of people are realizing now, potentially a pandemic, really can upset your life. And so I think if this is one of the things that's super important to you and you can't find a way to get on the path back to normal activity, normal trening, normal competition, having some professionals guide you would be the way to do it. You're still running 20% off sales there. So would recommend contacting us through our email, support at barbellmedicine.com. Honorable mention for the second most common question that I always get asked is what shoes are those whenever we're deadlifting? Look, they're Nike Davinos, they're indoor soccer shoes. I don't think they make them anymore. And I don't think that they're going to make anybody pull a lot more weight. I just wanted a flat shoe. That was pretty thin. I didn't really like deadlifting in chunks. I hated deadlifting slippers. And so I just picked up some indoor soccer shoes, Austin actually used to tren in sombas until he saw my Davinos and he was like, what are those? So thEQuestion is why barbell trening, look, the name is barbellmedicine. So we can't really recommend kettlebells or machines machine medicine. IMean, people already think that medicines are big machine. No, but seriously though, I think there are some maybe unique benefits to barbell trening, particularly with a balance component that you don't see with machines. But you know, that's not just relegated to barbell trening, you can do that with dumbbell trening or other free weights for e-implements. So in reality, I don't think that barbells are like the best trening tool to use. I think rather whatever somebody has access to resource wise. And so again, this is being like widely exemplified by people not having access to all the particular equipment that they want during this pandemic. So whatever you have access to, that's important. And then whatever you want to do that promotes adherence, those are going to be the two biggest things with actually exercise selection. If you are a competitive athlete, particularly in a barbell sport, sure, you're going to have to do most of your trening with a barbell. No way around that. But that's the sport you chose. And so obviously you like barbells, but if you're not a barbell sport athlete, you could make a case for having somebody do a completely machine-based trening program or kettlebell based trening program. If they prefer that, if they've access to those things. I think the biggest things that barbells have going for them are that they're relatively inexpensive. They're relatively widely available when gyms are open. You can incrementally load them without a lot of extra things. So like it's hard to incrementally load a kettlebell with respect to weight without having a ton of different kettlebells. And so maybe for the budget, you know, minded individual or facility, yeah, you can make a case for barbells. But I also think, you know, there's stuff that's uniquely beneficial to machines, particularly entry points for people who may be intimidated by barbells. So it doesn't mean that you can never use barbells for those individuals. If they prefer using machines on the front end. But again, the major thing is increasing the physical activity participation rates. And that's going to be based on whatever somebody has access to and whatever they prefer. All right, what is my favorite thing about working for barbell medicine? So I started this thing in 2012, Ish. And honestly, this is bigger. It's grown bigger than I ever thought it was going to. I thought it was going to be mostly just me, you know, kind of doing some consultation work or, you know, providing information for folks, educational resources. And now that it's bigger than just me and it keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger, I think that's really what's the most rewarding thing for me is seeing it grow and also just in the right way. Because effectively, it just gives us a bigger microphone to kind of promote positive change in our community, whether that's improving folks' self-efficacy, improving physical activity participation, improving lifestyle interventions, sort of adherence, improving outcomes by educating other clinicians. So that's the coolest thing. Our microphones weigh bigger now and that's the whole goal. Get the microphone, get the platform as big as possible so we can possibly affect as many folks as possible. All right, so thEQuestion is favorite, Keanu Reeves movie. This was the fan favorite. All right, so look, I got a bunch of recommendations to go watch point break. And look, there's a love story, there's like some crime, there's like some mystery stuff, there's fight scenes, but the ending look if you haven't seen it, you're going to have to see it. But the ending, I can't do it, not for me. So that is not my favorite. It's going to be matrix, all the matrix series. All right, what is your favorite lifting moment? You know, honestly, it was probably the meat that I had in 2014. I was in medical schools on OBGYN rotation doing nights and I signed up for this local meat at the gym that I trened at and total 17.95 at 198 pounds. I was in knee wraps. The weights they used were not terribly well calibrated, although at the time that was kind of powerlifting and then also it was on a deadlift bar. But 17.95, I was squatting 640, benched 430, although my butt did come up in the air, they didn't redlight me though, but I know that it did. I'm honest with myself and then up pulled 725 and that was just putting that whole meat together out a lot of fun and I still think about that meat. It was just a really good day. And then also 2015, you're later, Ron Ashtonals, USAPL and up getting 4th there actually did not perform very well. They're not sleep very well in that 4. Had some personal stuff going on. But you know, got on the rally bus and it was cool. It was cool to perform on that stage. It was like the first, they didn't really have prime time, but everybody was watching us because we had like all the heavy hitters in my flight and it was really cool to take 4th out of almost 100 competitors. Yeah, that was a good day. ThEQuestion is, what can I do to boost recovery? And this is, I view this as the samEQuestion, like what can I do to boost my immunity? The idea is that you can do these things to take your recovery and your immune system to the next level, super physiological levels. And that's not really the case. There are things that promote like a well functioning immune system and you know, appropriate recovery. And so that's the approach I'd like to take. Instead of thinking about trying to boost your recovery, let's just try to maximize your potential to recover. And so things that you would want to do. So one diet needs to be on point. Particularly that you're getting enough protein. That's 1.6 grams, per kilogram body weight per day. At least with some evidence going all the way up to 3.1 grams, per kilogram body weight per day. Sleep is going to be a big deal and that's very individualized, but 78 hours per night you can go to a sleep podcast, we go in depth on that, making sure you're going to have sleep apnea or other parasamias or other sleep issues. And the next thing, outside of that would actually be trening more. So the way that you improve your trening tolerance is to gradually tren more and more more. A big base of trening that it's includes aerobic trening and also anaerobic trening. So you've got to do both to get your trening tolerance up. And so yeah, trening more, eating appropriately, sleeping right. That's how you boost your recovery and really just maximizing your the potential you have to recover. ThEQuestion is, which person has impacted your life the most? It's definitely got to be my dad. My dad, he's my number one fan, number one supporter. I know it sounds corny, but it's true, like I wouldn't be where I'm at without my dad. The cool thing about him is that he, you know, he gives it to me straight. He's never, you know, blown smoke up my, my rear about telling me, oh, you're this great athlete and this, whatever, he's just like your hard worker and that's how you end up, you know, succeeding. So but if you know, let me pick the cheeseball answer, I'm going to pick this mentor that I had right before I went to medical school. Actually, one of the reasons I went to medical school ended up applying and kind of going through that process. Dr. PIPer, great guy, spine surgeon, actually coach him for a while and is cool with watchinGHim be able to squat and deadlift even though he had a back surgery and, you know, he didn't think you'd ever be able to do that as a spine surgeon so being able to take him through through some resistance trening and gettinGHim kind of out of the idea like, oh, you got a back problem. You can't ever do this stuff again in a six-decage of life. That was really cool. And he again, similar to my dad, he always felt, you know, he always kept telling me, like, you can do this. You can go to medical school. You can be a doctor and, yeah, probably if it wasn't for that push, I don't know that I would have done it, but it was really cool. So those two probably the most influential people in my life. All right, so thEQuestion is favorite thing to do outside the gym. It's probably going to be golf, but I'm not just a one-trick pony, so if it's not golfing, I want to be cooking or entertaining friends that's probably my second favorite thing to do after golfing. I have thEQuestion is, what are the best accessory movements? So, you know, this assumes that somebody's probably a barbell sport athlete, so they have specific lifts that they want to get up. I don't think that actually applies to most people watching this. Like, if you haven't signed up for a powerlifting meter or weightlifting meat, like, I don't know that you need to restren or constren yourself to just, you know, swap-enched ed lift. There are other exercises out there, and so my overarching idea is that I want people to do a wide variety of different exercises. This not only helps like motor learning, so you get better at like, do it in movements and like knowing where your body isn't spaced by doing different type of movements. It's like you get to better outcomes that way. Also reduces the risk of injury from overuse, and also just makes you stronger all around. So effectively, strength is very specific, and if you do a lot of different things, you build this broad base of strength that you can later apply specifically if you want to, and so the specific periods will be relatively short. So I like almost all variations. I think if you have good data, you respond relatively well or better to particular variations, and performance, max strength performance on the big three are very important to you. You should definitely be keeping those records. Then those are the ones I would default to, and I would try to kind of build this X-size library if things that you prefer, so adherence will go up, and that also you respond to. But in general, there's a big range of motion, easily easy to load, and like fairly similar to the exercise that you care about. This is probably a good variation.

=== FILE: 10 Questions with Tom Campitelli [FK6GfRk0SIU].txt ===

What is the most common error I see in trenees? Probably being overly self-critical, or if I were to expand that a little, loading the bar too much and going a little too heavy. What if any specific programming changes would IMake for elderly people? I would probably not change things significantly unless they displayed a difference in range of motions, specifically if they for whatever reason couldn't lock out a bench press or a shoulder press might need to make some adjustments there. Depending upon how detrened they are, they may require a more gradual ramp up. However, the similarities between what older trenees would do and what younger trenees would do would far outweigh any differences. What is my favorite Kiana Reeves movie, The Matrix? I thought for sure you're going to say Bill of Teh. Oh man that's so good too. Oh, now you got me thinking so it's got to be between the Matrix and Bill and Ted. I'm going to probably still go with the Matrix just because it's so cool. But Bill and Ted had a lot of cultural resonance for me as a young suburban adult. My normal breakfast is about half of a 32 ounce container of non-fat plain Greek yogurt coupled with a scoop of whey protein and then maybe a little bit of cereal. Gluten free of course and by gluten free IMean gluten enhanced. The favorite activity outside of the gym would be taking pictures. Although unfortunately I'm normally in the gym when I'm taking pictures. It is interesting. It's the picture that you take in fact or actually. Yeah so I don't know if that really counts. Another big fail. Woo! What is my favorite thing about working for Barbell Medicine? My initial answer is nothing and I dislike it intensely. My favorite thing about working at Barbell Medicine would be getting to discuss a whole bunch of health ideas as well as programming ideas with Jordan and Austin as well as coming to fully embrace nihilism as a way of life and realizing that truly almost nothing matters. My personal best lifting moment. I imagine it would be when I pulled 227.5 kilos at my meat in 2016. Did you meet my guess? That's 500 American pounds. Yep. Do I have any hidden talents? I think that's the wrong question. I think the real question is do I have any non-hidden talents? And I think the answer to both of those is objectively now. Lasha who is a very accomplished Olympic weight lift eric in clen and jerk 264. 264 kilos does that therefore in to it well that he will deadlift 500 kilos. With all due respect to those who would use the word into it well with regard to light deadlift trenslating to heavy deadlifts, I don't know that it into its well that he could given that strength tends to be more specific than we might think. What is my approach if one lift in particular is not responding to a lifters programming? Massive caloric access. Just find whatever they're eating and double it. No, it would be reviewing what they're doing and it would probably involve having them be exposed more frequently and with higher volume to the lift provided that that is appropriate. It's a little difficult to say just with that information because is thEQuestion that they are overly fatigued or that you are not giving them enough. And in most cases it's going to be that you actually need to find a way to give them more stress throughout a given time but perhaps with less acute fatigued. So perhaps upping the dose as it were.

=== FILE: 2019 Brooklyn Q⧸A Part II： Who Would Win In A Fight？ Plus Gluten Intolerance [QU_N5JaPPqI].txt ===

Do injectable corticosteroids have similar catabolic effects on lean body mass as described with oral systemic corticosteroids or do interarticular cortisone, shots only have a potential for damage you tissue within the joint cavity, ego, tendon rupture, or a cartilage damage. I can do this. Yeah. All right. So we talked in a couple instances this weekend about corticosteroids like prednisone, for example, as a catabolic type steroid that sometimes patients can take. They're also injectable types and they can be injected in different ways. So they can be injected directly into the muscle. They can be injected into an IV. They can be injected into a joint for osteoarthritis or other purposes that orthopedic surgeons and other types of doctors will very commonly do. So injectable corticosteroids, if they go in the muscle, yes, they have a systemic effect. That's pretty much the same as an oral corticosteroid. But it's pretty uncommon that somebody would be regularly receiving intermuscular steroid injections repeatedly over time. It's usually a one-time thing that they might get for a particular condition and then you move on from there or if they need continued treatment, it would go to be oral. So that's a less common scenario. I think this question, Asker, was more interested in the specific interarticular types. Maybe they have osteoarthritis in the knee and they get these injections put into their knees and the systemic effects of this stuff is pretty small. I would not be particularly concerned if somebody gets steroid injections in a knee or an adjoint that they're going to lose their muscle mass or get sarcopenic as a result. After multiple reasons, number one, the systemic absorption is relatively low. And additionally, most doctors will not perform these injections more frequently than abouT3 to four months at a time, once every three to four months. I will also say that the evidence that these things work much better than placebo injections pretty weak evidence that they are super, super effective. So I would river it back to a lot of the advice that I gave in our lecture about pain and managing it and we have strong evidence that increase that strength trening for patients with osteoarthritis can improve pain and function. So I would definitely recommend that. If somebody for whatever reason is a hyper-responder to these sorts of injections into their knees, which is the most common place that these get injected. And you know, they're getting them maybe once or twice a year and they're like, it makes me feel great for the next six months. I can do everything I want and I don't care if it's placebo and blah, blah, blah, blah. I'm like, cool. All right, go on living your life and do your home roller. I don't tend to recommend those or perform those for patients right off the bat based on the evidence based for them. But little concern to be had with respect to lean body mass with those steroids that go into the joints. Yeah, just as a frequency and dose of solos. But if you have an autoimmune disease and you're on oral systemic steroids for a long time, then yeah, you're at high risk for osteoporosis, high risk for sarcopenia, high risk for sepsis, for death, for all kinds of things from them. But again, you're balancing risks and benefits compared to the actual condition that you're treating correct. So. Okay. Question number nine. Is there hope for porous bond or seps trening? How can they keep from getting discouraged? So it's interesting. You probably, this question assumes that you would be able to tell if somebody is a porous bond or to trening early on during their trening career or before they've even started trening at all, which I would strongly disagree with. And I like Austin is a good example for this, so I'll just again use you. IMentioned this during our, I don't know which lecture it was, but in any event, Austin to begin into his trening, he did a novice linear progression. And at the end of his novice linear progression, he's quite a 285 pounds, three sets of five, that was where he ended up, which is a patently average response. And what's interesting is that despite that being an average response, the creator of that program would say that's a below average, you didn't do the program right, you didn't gain enough body weight, you know, right. But I'm just saying that's what would be said. That would be on the outset that would be looked at being a below average response, even though, according to the average, it is the average based on the data collected on that free on that program. So in any event, that being said, five years removed from being what we would, what, the creator of that program would be in a low responder and what the data would say to be an average response, you squatted 625, which is elite level relative to your cohort. That is a great, massive squat. So we were unable to tell early on in his trening career, whether or not he was actually a poor responder, average responder or a high responder to trening. In fact, I would say that you're unable to tell if somebody is a poor responder to trening based on the first dose of trening you give them or even the second dose, because you may have messed up the formulation, right. If the type of trening and type of stress that you've given them is wrong at each step of the way, you don't know if they're actually poor responders or if the stress to adaptation ratio is just off based on the wrong formulation. So I don't know that you'd be able to like chalk up that somebody is a poor responder trening until they've been trening for some period of time. So the most important things with early trening early on that the people enjoy the process, they understand what they're supposed to be getting out of it, things that they're supposed to be learning from a self-efficacy standpoint. Okay, here's how I do the exercises, here's in general what the trening goals are, here's in general how I should load the ball, like the you know, they're the gaining skills, right. And they're having fun doing it. That's what they're supposed to be learning early on. You don't again care like what is your max squat at 12 weeks. Like if that's the benchmark of success, I think that you know that's very short-sighted. Yes, jinx. And yeah, and I just don't care about that. So for people who have gone through maybe a year or two years of trening and they think I'm a poor responder, I would wonder about the actual like types of trening you've been exposed to because you might need a different formulation. Consistency. Yeah. And how often have you actually been engaged in trening and what have been your barriers to like having consistent trening. And then if all of those things check out, I'm like wow, it looks like you've actually tried a lot of things and you've actually been super consistent and your nutrition's been on point and all this other stuff. You're just not getting it done. It's like what are you going to do, not tren? Well, how can we make this enjoyable for you to tren, right? What sort of things are meaningful to you? How can we make this enjoyable to you? If somebody who comes in after two years of trening, they have a 10 inch vertical as a male and like after squatting consistently for two years, two, 25 is their 1-rm and they're like the only way that I'll enjoy trening is if I win USAPL Run Nationals. Well, it's like expectation managed. Yeah, exactly. So why is that important to you? And is there anything else that would make trening rewarding for you? So I think the role of a coach is to identify people's talents and divert them into different directions where they can be super, very successful, right? So somebody might say, I just want to be basketball player, basketball is my jam, I love it so much. It's like, yeah, but your world class track athlete so let's push you into that sport. Same thing. So I want to be a power-lifter, I love power-lifter, I love power-lifter, so much and you're like, look man, you really don't want to do this. So I believe me. You push them into a place where they can be successful and I think that if you look hard enough and you have enough resources that you can probably find a place to push somebody towards. Yeah, yeah. So those are the last few examples of funny because I grew up playing multiple sports and played baseball for a bit and I was actually pretty good defensively, but I could not hit for shit. And I think it's probably because I have part of it outside of all the factors that go into it, but I have like as bismally poor vision. Yeah. My visual acuity is really, really bad. Notice he didn't say I hand coordination because that's not actually the thing, it's having above average visions. Yeah. And by the third grade, I was wearing like high-powered contact lenses. He's actually on his real eyeballs. He's weird. And you know, at that age, that was the only sport I knew and I was like, I want to grow up and be a really good baseball player or something. And I had to reframe my expectations as I grew up realizing like, yeah, it's not really going to work out. So then I got in the pool and I was like a little better at swimming. Maybe able to get myself into college swimming, but I was still not awesome at it. It wasn't like national level caliber at that sport. Then I find lifting and I'm like, oh, I'm like actually, decent at this, right? Until nowadays, when everybody else is getting so strong and I'm like, well, I'm not that good anymore, but I guess I'll keep trening. Yeah. Well, that's the thing though. But so if I would have asked you three years ago, maybe even in his recent years, two years ago, hey, you think you're a better swimmer than a weightlifter, you'd be like, yeah. But now, you'd be like, I think I'm better lifted than swimmer. Yeah. So really, you should have just played, you know, like, lacrosse, probably. Something. OK. Question number 10. Can you speak on a posture syndrome as a relates to trening other people? And not feeling qualified enough. Sure. IMean, I don't know the clinical, you know, or like, Wikipedia, the self-declimbing. Yeah. I'm a posture syndrome, just for people who are not familiar with it, refers to this feeling among individuals who are actually like, reasonably well trened in a particular area, or like who are practicing in a particular setting. Having this feeling that they're inadequate, not good enough, that they don't know enough, relative to their peers, even if they may actually possess all the wreck was it skill and trening and characteristics and knowledge base and something like that. Oh, it's at that definition. This is in contrast to like expert beginner syndrome, where the opposite of like, done the done in crew of perfect. So sure, I think this is very common. Now, I can only speak from my experience and then my experience trening other coaches, because that I used to have that job where I was actually educating other coaches. Nobody feels ready to coach people based on having a certain certification or a certain, accreditation after the name or a certain stamp of approval. IMean, when I first started trening in 2007, you know, and I was like CSCS, ACSM, I got, I ended up getting my USAW club coach. Like I had all these letters right and I'd also been strength trening myself for all decent period of time. Like I was fairly strong person. And I was like, you know, I've got the credentials and I've got the experience from at least on my own and I should feel somewhat comfortable like teaching somebody else how to do this. But I was asking the most basic of questions like, well, how many sets really should they be doing? Well, like, what exercises should they be doing? And that comes from just a lack of like wanting some deterministic answer. Like I want somebody to tell me, this is the answer. And have a firm thing. But what we know, what I know now is that there is no firm answer. I'm more comfortable now with being with the uncertainty of it all. But in the beginning, I wanted a definitive answer. So I think in Poster syndrome, in this particular case, people want to feel like I have the answers that they're very solid and they're all evidence based and that there's not a lot of squish there. But in the reality is you have to be very comfortable being uncertain with these things. But you just couch things appropriately. So to speak on a Poster syndrome, I think most people experience it. I don't think you should let it diswage you. And I think the biggest step that you can make towards getting rid of it or not having it, impair your workflow anymore is just trying to get more comfortable being uncertain and not having the answer. That's things you can be able to say that I don't know, I'll find out or I'm not sure. So even now, if someone is like, what is the best rep range for getting strong? Like, who doesn't exist? I don't know. I don't think that it exists based on present evidence. And they're like, that's not a very solid answer, Dr. Faganbaum. And it's like, best I can do right now. But in 2007, I'd be like, well, let me think about it. And then I'd try to come to some long-winded answer and then I'd feel even worse at the end. But I really don't know why am I taking people's money. Really what you're trying to do, especially as a newer coach or trenee, is you're trying to get more people to be physically active. You're trying to get more people to change their nutrition. You're trying to spread knowledge in your community, right? And not hurt people along the way. It's going to be really hard to hurt people unless you hold really strenge opinions on exercise and nutrition. You're like, don't resistance trened, for instance, or never eat carbohydrates. Like, that's, again, having very strenge opinions are the only way that you can really like mess people up. But as far as benefiting folks, you can do a lot without necessarily knowing the answers to all thesEQuestions. You just have to be okay, saying, I don't know. I'm not sure, or I haven't learned that yet, which is fine, which is fine. The main skills you need is a new coach, R2, to be able to coach movement and program. In a way that generally comports with what we know right now to be useful. And so everybody in here right now could program for a beginner, right? And has some sense of how to program for a more advanced lifter, right? As far as knowing exactly what changes to make and this time the other, that's an experienced thing. And even I don't have the answers there. I just have general sense of things. So yeah, I think a lot of that sort of feeling of imposter syndrome gets augmented if you are surrounded by other colleagues or professionals who appear to have everything perfectly down. They know everything about trening, right? Fortunately, that is not the case. And those people are sharing you, faking it, right? Or they are inappropriately confident, right? And so recognizing that when somebody makes extremely, extremely confident claims about things that it is probably not appropriate for them to be that confident and that there is much more uncertainty as Jordan was saying than sometimes conveyed when these people make their claims or give their advice that might help with your feeling that. Because you might feel like I'm the only person who doesn't know the answer to this where is this guy saying, oh, no, you have to do it this way. This is the correct way to do things and everything else is incorrect based on my expensive experience. Well, fortunately, you can go to the research evidence on most things and use that to support your answer and support your knowledge base, which is the way we do things. Or at least generate a hypothesis whether it's not direct data on something. I would say that probably about, I don't know, maybe monthly, maybe more frequent, give or take. Jordan or I will find our way down some new rabbit hole of research or knowledge or some new topic area. And we'll send like one review article on the topic to the other and we're like, well, shit, here we go. There's this entire field that people have been researching for the past 30, 40, 50 years or something like that. We didn't even know this shit existed. And we're just like dipping our toe in right now. Right. And this is with our knowledge base and you guys, you know, how we have developed a pretty solid handle we think on the material we presented to you this weekend. But this again, involved like enormous, enormous amounts of reading and synthesizing this stuff and putting it together. And we're doing this entirely new areas that we know literally nothing about on a near weekly to a monthly basis. So we could feel in post-resendrum about every new topic area we get into. It's completely normal, right. But we just say rather than comparing ourselves to the way other people are behaving because they can behave inappropriately, faking it or being overly confident, we're just going to go with what the research evidence says on this or go to the scientific literature on a matter and fill out our knowledge from there as much as we can. What's the last thing you change your mind on? I'm not good at remembering these things. You know, what the last thing you change your mind on? Met's maybe. Um, IMean, that's one thing. Sure. Anything. That's anything we change our mind on. Once that, once that other paper came out that I said, yeah, yeah. So previously we thought, I told you guys this during the programming lecture where I was like, previously we thought eight meds just like cut off above that. You weren't going to get any additional like, uh, disease, uh, burden of disease reduction or mortality improvement, uh, with higher degrees of cardiovascular sporey fitness. But new review came out suggesting that there is a continued improvement after this eight meds of cardiovascular capacity. So the funny thing is after after we talked about that, like what's it like? Well, the, yeah, we were kind of stupid that we actually thought that other thought that other thing was the case, right? Yeah, we wouldn't being in better shape continue to get you more improvements and we're like, well, yeah, I guess we're stupid. Well, our, but it's funny, it's funny is because our original bias would be like, the more fit that you are, the better you're going to do. But then he's looking at the data and you're like, well, IMean, I guess I got a temper that a little bit. And then it comes back and we're like, yes, my original bias was correct. Yeah. Yeah. I think getting that idea across of being okay with uncertainty and recognizing that most people who are overly confident are probably either faking it or wrong, uh, we'll make you feel better about yourself. Yep. It's okay. We all, we all are anxious about our own education levels and times. Uh, yeah, IMean, well, I'm just saying, it's like, you know, if you think you don't know enough, sure like, oh, this bothers me. It's like, yeah, IMean, I've told Jordan I've heard somebody say, I know everything there is to know about strengthening conditioning as a direct quote. Like, nope. That seems unlikely. Yeah. Citation. If I believe that, I would say, how can I get that, right? It's not possible. Yeah. Okay. What recommendations do you make for weight loss and nutrition for a patient several years post-op, Ruin Y? That's a, I guess you might have. Over time, how does your body adjust to those changes? Does it return to normal absorption, asking for a friend? Need O. Uh, so as far as what recommendations I would make for weight loss and nutrition for a patient several years post-op Ruin Y, I wouldn't. Outside of potentially supplementation with like vitamins, if there's evidence that this person has decreased absorption. But usually those folks are on, uh, vitamins for life. It's just part of their post-op care. Uh, I'm not aware of data suggesting that they stop at any particular interval of time. Uh, that being said, over time does your body adjust to those changes. Those changes, I assume you mean, again, surgical right? Uh, not really, especially in a Ruin Y situation because there's not like an expandable, you know, or, or, or, or deflatedable or any other device. It's just, it's just, it's, you had surgery. Uh, does it return to normal absorption? So it's not that your absorption was, uh, necessarily like, it was diminished because of the surgical procedure. And because it was changed, it's not going to like come back. You've taken areas of the intestine that are involved in absorption and you've removed them and they're not coming back. Uh, so in that case, the vitamin Supplementation is usually needed indefinitely. Um, I, again, outside of that though, I wouldn't make any specific recommendations like all you need more protein and more carbohydrates and any more fat, any more this and more that. Rather, you're managing based on results like how's your weight changing? How's your waist or conference changing, et cetera, et cetera? Um, at what your risk factors and what do you need to do? But it wouldn't be, I wouldn't take into account the ruin why procedure outside of like making sure that you're doing your post-op care as needed. Yeah, I agree. I think they need to make sure that they're not getting deficient in anything and then the rest is based on results. Like you said, there actually may be some sort of adaptive changes on shows. Sure, there's really a lot of things. Yeah, yeah. Um, in my mind, it's perfectly, I'm, you're plausible that somebody might have some adaptive changes to their new anatomy. However, I actually don't know what that is. So I guess imposter syndrome at work. Yeah, it wouldn't be surprising if there were adaptive. It would be more surprising that there weren't any adaptive changes. Yeah, I expect maybe some of the colonic mucosa or the small intestinal mucosa changes to the adaptive. That's a good thing. But I just don't know what happens. I haven't read that. That would be interesting to know. Last couplEQuestions here. Sure. Given the current data and other observations, what is your stance on the validity and prevalence of non-cyliet gluten intolerance? My stance on the validity of it that people believe in that they have a gluten intolerance is clearly real. Like that happens. That's in, in reality. As far as what to do about that, I don't know that just telling them like, hey, you don't really have a siliac. I don't think that's the answer. And I don't know that we should actively be managing this because they have a belief system that's already in place that's part of their identity and how they eat, which is a huge like social cultural sort of input into their lifestyle. I would want to change that. People who are siliac and people in general who don't even have higher risk, cardiovascular disease, period. This is thought to be due to less intake of whole grains. I know the paleo crowd is going to roast me for this one. But even like the guy who brought most of the siliac research to the United States is like, you don't want this. You don't want to go gluten free. This is a bad diet. You shouldn't do this. Not only is it more expensive, it's less nutritious. So people think they're doing this for their health. It's not healthy to avoid gluten in any event. I don't know that we can run like a PSA, you know, sort of campaign where it's like gluten is your friend. And it's like, you know, there's a mascot and he's like, this pro-lamin protein. It's like in a bread, making things like chewy. I don't think that's going to work. But the data on it currently suggests that if people believe that they have this non-cylic gluten intolerance and they believe that they're getting gluten free food, they do better. If it has gluten in it, compared to, I think there's a few, I'm going to break this down a little further. I think there's a few different cohorts to consider here. So there's obviously the ClearCut Siliac disease individuals, those who have proven, you know, disease based on papsy or that's the gold standard for diagnosis of this. There is a cohort of people who believe they are sensitive to gluten. In fact, have no actual gastrointestinal disorder whatsoever. That's the other end of the spectrum. These are the people who have been purely no seabed by the internet or by paleopod casts and the like, people who, again, when I was talking about inflammatory diseases for sarcopenia or inflammation in the context of lipid disorders, I'm about real inflammation versus not real inflammation, people who eat a piece of toast and they claim that all their whole body feels terrible, but when they get evaluated and biopsied and things like that, there's no evidence of any problems whatsoever. There is a no, an established, no seabot-type mechanism for, so-called gluten intolerance in the certain subset of these individuals. I think there's likely to be, or there is a cohort in between where this non-cylic gluten sensitivity is not purely no seaboma mediated. However, what exactly they are sensitive to is unclear. There's some evidence suggesting that people in this, in between where when you do the removal of those types of foods from the diet, they actually get better, even in a placebo-controlled fashion, they may be more sensitive to what this so-called fog maps in the diet. So, the proteins, oligo, and polysaccharides, I think, is that cover-out? There's a particular subset of types of carbohydrates in the diet that they're made, they may be more sensitive to rather than a gluten itself. Just happens that some of those things coexist in a bunch of different foods. So, I think that there are basically two subsets of the non-cylic, gluten sensitivity people, the people who are legitimately sensitive to certain elements in the diet, that are probably not gluten that are probably other molecules in the food that they may actually legitimately benefit from moving as well as those who are not sensitive to anything biologically, but have been no seabowed purely and they tend to maybe they become hyper-visulant after they eat a piece of toast. How does my stomach feel? How does my stomach feel? How does my stomach feel? And as soon as there's like an abnormal girl feel like there it is. It's acting up on me. Yeah, it'll be a hyper-visulant. And so, yeah, I think. Can you think about our ancestors, like just looking, like if they can, if you're in a like, this guy has indoor, running water, electricity, what are these lights, unlimited food supply and can't eat toast? But bread is taking them out? Super-resilient bro. Yeah. And then the second part of this is, so think about it like this. You have a person who has four years felt like at certain different times of the year they've had an upset stomach. Which is the normal human experience. But when asked, yeah, I think that I've had upset stomach sometimes over the past few years. And my doctor doesn't understand me. They're always in and out super fast, they don't care. Then I went and saw my natural path, my chiropractor, or whatever. And they said, maybe you're sensitive to gluten, and they spent 90 minutes with me. And they listened to me and they understood all of my problems. And I'm not saying that this is bad, right? I'm not saying that you shouldn't spend as much time as you can with patients, but I also understand why this becomes so seductive. And then they say, I think you're gluten sensitive. Just stop eating gluten. Here's what has gluten in it. I'll see you in three days for your follow-up. Also, we're going to run this proprietary blood test. IMean anything, but anyway, moving on. And then the person reports, I cut out gluten. I feel way way better. See, it was the gluten. That's partly this placebo mechanism. And partly a failure to sort of accurately diagnose potentially a sensitivity to fondmaps. And it's partly a placebo mechanism. They don't expect patients and they're trusting that person. Correct. Do that. Yes. Multiple levels of psychiatric sorcery. Which, again, it's not all bad. We could learn a lot from being able to spend more time with patients and accurately hearing their concerns and communicating with them effectively. And I say that what we, the Alephatic Medical Community is just run a place under different time constrents, which is very, very difficult. And I am thighs with our provider friends. That being said, that's one of the ways that this happens. It's tough to deal with. So anyway, going forward, if you feel like you're this person, like I'm gluten intolerant, but I don't have Silly Act, I would challenge you. Half a piece of bread. Half a piece. See what happens. Don't pay attention. Don't like focus on it. Don't like put out your journal and your library. Quirtie. Time. Zero. Ingested. 120 grams of bread. Time. Zero point zero. One. Drink of water. Like, you know, don't do that. Just go on living your life. And if you notice something that caught, you know, brings this to the forefront. If declares itself, quote unquote, then, hey, follow up with, you know, your doctor, your real doctor, you know, the one who went to medical school. And go from there. But other than that, I don't think that people should be actively trying to go gluten free. Okay. Last question. This is my favoritEQuestion. Who would win in a fight, Dr. Fagan Mom or Dr. Barackie? And I would just like to say, there's a reason. So here's the thing. Dr. Barackie and I are both nonviolent. Individuals, Dr. Barackie is more of a nihilist than I am, though. He doesn't get sucked into as many internet arguments as I do. I'm more aggressive. So for that reason, I think Austin would win. I would get fatigued morEQuickly. He's got an endurance background. Also his low bar back squat without knee wraps is stronger than mine. So he would probably just hit Barackie as way to success. Yes. Yes. Who's the smartest? So we have objective metrics on this, right? We have objective metrics on this. So in medical school, Austin, you're your number one in your class? I don't know. I don't think they did class rank. Yeah, it wasn't like, but you were in the top probably three years. So I know that I was in the top percentage. We got the award, right? Percentage. So you had your junior, junior anyway. Yeah. Yeah. So I know that. Now let on our step one, which is like the stratification exam that you take to get into different residences, Austin got a 265 and I got a 257. So again, I have to concede to Austin this now. I've been my defense. I did start a business during that. I said a top 20 all time. Powerlifting total during that time as well. In Austin, he got married, engaged another interpersonal relationships with him, seemed to be important to him. So I think seem to be, well, nothing's real. So I think it's a draw is what I'm getting at, even though objectively, I think you'd beat me into fight. Do you think so? IMean, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't like, we're nonviolent. Yeah, that's part of the problem is that I don't think either of us had actually been into fight. Oh, yeah. I got jumped once. Yeah. I remember, I think it was like second or third grade. Wait, I was like, I was like, right in the, I was right in the school, but hold on. This is, this is, is it real? Yeah. And, and some kid was getting on the bus and passing. And I don't know, I don't remember who it was, or if we had a beef at that time. But he, if you pass a note to his girlfriend. He, punch, that, he punched me straight in the stomach as hard as he could. That was not the wind out of me for like, you know, for a long time after. That was literally like in second grade at this time. I was like severely jacked up by this. I don't know. I don't get it over to this guy. He just punched you. And then we both went on living our lives. I don't know who he is anymore. He probably doesn't squat 625 though. It's unlikely. You met him now. I can, I can hit driving out of the reach. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't, I don't know. I thought about having us on our muscle, but I don't want to do that. Because I have a meet coming up and then like the wood thing. Yeah, my elbows. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. Talk away. Yeah. All right. All right. So, hey. Thank you. Thanks for watching on YouTube. You guys are great. See you guys next time. Thanks. With the whey protein, people kept asking us which protein should I take, what do you recommend? And when we looked into it, we didn't really feel comfortable recommending any protein. So, we just made our own. So, we goT4 ingredients. The essential amino acid and BCA contents are very high. This is exactly what you want out of a whey protein. Thank you.

=== FILE: 2019 Brooklyn Q⧸A： How Strong is Strong Enough For Sports, HDL Cholesterol, SARMS, and more! [1ZPWsX6RHZc].txt ===

Alright, thank you guys for watchinGHere on YouTube. We're at the barbell medicine seminar here in Brooklyn, New York. Thank you. Yeah, Rupon. Places. Places. I don't have my timelins. Okay, so we're gonna do a Q&A. We're gonna do a Q&A. This is a new way that we've been doing these where we have curated questions that have been submitted over the weekend and we'll try to answer then best of our ability. If questions not selected, and you guys submitted to us, please go to our forum, it's barbell, medicine.com, it's barom link. We'll try to answer those pretty regularly. We'll get to it. Don't DM us about it. Okay, let's get into somEQuestions. So for non-strength athletes like basketball, volleyball, baseball, every sport that's not powerlifting or weightlifting, how strong is strong enough? How do you determine if and when devoting trening resources to maximal force output outweighs the benefits to on-feel performance? You want me to start? Sure. Okay. Yeah, I don't know. I think that first you'd have to kind of look at the sport by sport. So there's not one answer that is universally applicable here from like a, you know, how much, how much of somebody's total Trening resources should be devoted towards trening with, like resistance trening? The other thing is if a sport has a high, places a high sort of importance on high velocity force production, I probably wouldn't spend a ton of time doing low velocity force production. So trening at maximal weights where the bar velocity is slow. There's a lot of muscle fiber type conversion that goes on there. So for instance, if you had a sprinter who trened only using very heavy sets of five, the muscle fiber type conversion that goes on there's from type 2b muscle fibers to type 2a muscle fibers, which are lower velocity high force producing muscle fibers. But that's not what they want as a sprinter. They want the type 2b fibers that are high velocity force producing muscle fibers. So you wouldn't want to do maybe any of that or certainly not a lot of it. I think that there's an inflection point with how between where you spend so much time in the gym lifting weights that you compromises your ability to either recover from or participate in higher volumes of your sport practice or things dedicated to your to your sport or even sampling other sports that are not resistance trening. So like a basketball player, if they told me that they were trening with weights more than three times a week, I'd be asked them why. And in season, it might be twice a week. I think that a basketball player should be obviously practicing the sport engaged in getting stronger across multiple different intensities and trening their conditioning up to a point that's consistent with their sport specific needs. And then if they have additional time after that, I probably wouldn't do more barbell trening. I'd have them try to play another sport or study art history or some other sort of sampling with their life. Yeah, live their life, right. So yeah, I think if you're going to try to answer this question again, generalizing it across multiple sports is probably a fool's errand and kind of can't be done. ThEQuestion would be why would why should an athlete in another sport perform resistance trening? And in our opinion, there's probably two compelling arguments to be made. Number one is for reduction in injury risk. We have a pretty solid evidence based on this and multiple sporting context that getting these athletes stronger can reduce their injury risk. However, I think that the amount of strength that they actually need to be able to demonstrate to achieve that risk reduction is not super super high. In other words, I can't say that if I take a soccer player's squat from 315 for 5 to 365 for 5, that they're going to get injured way less frequently on the field, right. So I don't think I think they definitely should be strength trening for the purpose of injury risk reduction, but I don't think they need to get power lifting strong. They don't really need to get super strong. The other argument is from a performance standpoint. And that is where the so-called carryover from their strength trening into their performance is going to be very strongly related to their actual sporting demands. And so that's where you need to look sport by sport. What are the force production demands of this sport? So if I had a track and field athlete who wanted to go do, won't you shot putting or something? It's like, yeah, they need to be pretty strong, right. But if I had like a bad mitten player or something, right, how strong do they need to be to jack up their performance? And I'm going to try to get them to squat 500 for their sport. Am I going to get them to squat 400 for their sport? Do you get them to squat 300 for their sport? Do you care if they're not particularly care? Or do I care whether they're squatting versus doing some other type of resistance trening? Exactly. That's, yeah. Can IMake a very, very clear strong argument for that over other types of resistance trening? I don't have the evidence base to say something like that. And I know that I would like for them to be stronger if they'recompletely untrened and you know, can barely do a sit-to-stand. If a chair but then they're sarcophene, can we got bigger problems, right? So definitely based on sporting demands for performance and then the risk reduction for injury is pretty compelling argument, although you don't again need to be a power lifter to achieve that. Yeah. Arguably that would set you back more if you tren like a power lifter while they're trying to compete for in another sport. Well, yeah, and again, because you're just making, if you're trening like a power lifter, then you're making compromises that you don't need to make it with respect to exercise, selection, intensities that you're using and sort of lack of conditioning that you're going to not engage in because you're trening like a power lifter, right? Anyway, I think it was really elegant what you said. Thank you. Because our confidence in what we say in the context of this particular question gets worse, the more like specific the recommendations get as far as like how strong should you be, which exercises should you be using, what reps like, you know, the confidence intervals get wider. Yeah, yeah, where we say, yeah, you should be stronger in general for injury, risk reduction and that in general, these are some trening philosophies that have evidence to support these certain trening adaptations, which we think would likely be useful to certain sporting applications. But to be like, yeah, you should use this squat variation, this reps gain, this average intense like a need to do double body weight for it. Like, that's just made up. It's just made up. Yeah, it doesn't mean that we don't think that people should get stronger. It just means that we can't say that very confidently, you know, because we don't have evidence there. Yeah, elegant. Hey, that's right. Hey, how do you hold the athlete accountable and improve resilience and avoid letting them off the hook or coddling too much based on their feelings or excuses? I don't know that I do that. What IMean is that it just depends on the context, because I don't know that I care enough to fight them on a particular thing. Rather, I want to know why they're issues, because I'm not looking to manage this symptomatically like, oh, you don't want to squat today. Or you don't want to do this at a five or you're avoiding, you know, doing a set that scares or of rep that scares you because you think you might fail. Like, well, why does it scare you? How do we, like, let's get to the root of it and manage that. If you're having a bunch of internal load, you know, anxiety and stress about completing certain tasks, I want to know why. And then maybe we can find a way to work around that versus just laying, I don't do it. So I'm not saying just skip it, but I want to know why more than just saying don't do it or hey, come on, if you don't do this, you're a bad human. Yeah, where's my rest? Where's the boat? Yeah, brother, you're a bad human. Yeah, I agree if if if things in trening are not going as expected, or there are issues coming up and excuses and things like that definitely getting to the root of it and asking why is probably the first big step. Just like with behavior change, you're trying to identify barriers and work through them. And so if there are barriers present to successful trening that have not been identified, then that's a situation where they might come out where financially it is consistently having issues adhering to the program, for example, right? Trying to identify why is probably the biggest factor to start working around that and knocking that barrier down versus saying, that's okay, that you skipped two out of your four sessions this week, or something like that. Yeah, that's really, of course. And the only thing I would add here is that how do you hold the athlete accountable and improve resilience, et cetera? Part of this needs to be captioning the context of their goals, right? So if they say they want to win nationals, right? And yet they're skipping sessions or they're skipping sets or they're making certain excuses or they're not adding weight to the bar when they clearly were able to or something like that. You have to ask them, yeah, I often times ask that in the context of their goals. It's like, how bad do you actually want to do this thing? Your behavior would suggest that maybe you don't, or there's something else that we have that has not come up yet in our conversations that is influencing your ability to adhere to the plan towards this thing, right? Because people will say all kinds of things, right? I want to win the cross against. Yeah, IMean, I've talked about we interviewed Sam, Calvin, who is one of my trenees who is USAPL national champion from last year in the six to three kilo weight class. And when she first contacted me, which was approaching three years ago, or something like that, and she said, so I want to win nationals. And this was when she was fairly early on in the competitive game, and we had big names like Jennifer Thompson, things like that in the sport, and she was like, I don't know when nationals. And I was like, all right, we got some work to do. And every single day ever since then, she has done a hundred percent of what she needs to do to be able to accomplish that with not a shred of excuse or skipping anything or not adhering to the plan or doing something like that, right? Because she is probably hungrier than anyone I've ever seen to accomplish that. And for that she did that goal, for that particular goal, right? And if she had been doing other things, skipping sets or sessions or something like that, then that would have maybEQuestion is something going on, maybe in life or relationships or something like that that's interfering, or are you maybe not quite, maybe you don't actually understand what is required to accomplish this particular thing, right? So looking at the individual's goals and how serious they are about them as another thing to look at here. Yeah, I think about you do. So for instance, you recently had to change or trening in secondary to motivational issues, which have stemmed from having pain and discomfort, doing certain things. So if I was actively coaching you and you sent me a text like, yo dude, I don't want to squat today because, you know, it hurts when I do this and I'm frustrated and annoying blah, blah. And my response was, just do it. I would have missed the opportunity to find out context for why you were feeling this way, right? And so it's like, you want to get to the root of the thing to figure out, okay, is the person hurt, do they have a much of extra stress going on in a life? Do they not understand all the things that need to go into this? Like, where is the disconnect, right? Or alternatively, they may be like, I don't actually believe that what I'm doing is going to get me to my goal. So for instance, if you program for Sam Calhoun, like a bunch of like running, you're like, yeah, first thing in the morning wake up, fasted, you know, 10 mile run, builds stamina and you need stamina for those nine attempts, you spread out by eight minutes at a time. Or is that? Well, yeah, that's what you have. And then, you know, a couple months in, she's like, no. But you know, that might be a lack of, you know, understanding like, why you're doing what you're doing inside into the process, right? So there's just, it's just missing an opportunity to identify what's going on and like be a better coach. Yeah. All right, well, three. Yeah. All right. Why is HDL cholesterol? HDL cholesterol value of less than 60 considered a negative risk factor in the Frammingham risk score for heart disease if the effects are relatively unknown? So the risks are actually a little bit lower than that. If things are 60 or higher, we're generally feeling pretty good, even if in their 50s, particularly for for a male, we're feeling pretty good about that too. But the idea of thEQuestion here is that if low HDL cholesterol levels are considered to be a negative or a risk factor, meaning that they reflect a higher degree of risk for cardiovascular disease, how is that the case if based on what I said in the lecture, we don't really understand a ton about HDL in particular, which is true. We know a good amount, but it's still probably the most mysterious of the lipoproteins that IMentioned. The idea here is that it appears to be more kind of a biomarker or a correlate for risk rather than a causative driver of the risk. So this is what I was getting at when IMentioned how we've tried. We've tried all the number of medications that are specifically designed to drive up HDL cholesterol, make that number go up, thinking that hey, that should improve outcomes, and then it turns out that it doesn't work. But it's definitely clear from the data that when those numbers are higher, those people are at lower risk. And so it appears to be more of a correlation than it appears to be a causation. There have been historically a number of theories as to how it might work, for example, that it might have this mechanism where it collects a bunch of cholesterol, extra stuff from the peripheral tissues and brings it back to the liver, things like that, as well as a bunch of other anti-inflammatory effects and things like that, which again have not paned out entirely the way we would like when we actually try to test treatments designed to raise the levels. So that's why I said that I wouldn't do anything specifically to try to raise that number in practice rather I would try to do things to lower that APOB level or lower levels of the low density lipoproteins themselves. So somebody had a stone-cold normal lipid panel, but their HDL was 50. You would be like, I need to do X, Y, Z to get your, because we just don't know that that'll do anything positive and that even if we did get the thing up, we don't know that that would be better. Yeah, I had a patient recently actually who saw who's lipid panel was one of the most whacked out that I've seen in a while and his low density life-oprotein levels were in the or his LDL levels were about in the 400s and his high density lipoprotein levels were zero completely undetectable. The so-called good stuff was like not present. What? I told you about the context team. So this individual was taking three different sarm medications at the same time. Kind of these selective androgen receptor modulator, pseudo-anabolic steroid type chemicals who's taking three of them at the same time. So I told him I said, I suspect this is probably related to you taking three of these even one of them can cause harm from the standpoint. So why don't we stop these things as well as reduce the dose of testosterone that he was taking? I remember an end and a few months later, now his numbers are back up to around 50 or so. Pretty substantial improvement, even just by taking off the medication. So I didn't do something in particular to raise that number, but it improved as a result of changing this other harmful thing that he was doing. So would not take those either. So the sarm things are interesting. So the sarm-sense for selective androgen receptor modulators. There's a handful of ones that have recently hit the black market in the past few years. None of them are currently available to use pharmaceuticals because they're all in either Stage 2 clinical trials or prior. They've not made it even into like being tested at the Stage 3 level and none of them are on the market. But that being said, the chemical structures have been available for people to create and they do that and you can buy them, although none of them are like these is like pharmaceutical grade stuff because the only pharmaceutical companies that are making them have patented these things. You can't just make that and it'd be and then sell them and it'd be okay. That's a patent violation. So in any event, the sarms right now that have been studied, that we do have data on, have either no improvement in things like musculoskeletal strength or lean body mass or very small improvements. Now granted, they're only been tested in older populations the longest study right now is like 24 weeks and they did not improve the time to up and go test in the elderly population, even though there was a small increase in their lean body mass. But here's the thing, you're taking something that's banned in all tested sports that we don't know have long-term safety data on. We don't know the potential side effects because they haven't been around that long and it's not even available on the market right now that you could get like without going through black market channels. Okay, people still take them. But people still take them and so you don't know what you're getting. So this particular instance, he's like, I'm on three sarms. Well, you're on three things that you thought were sarms, but maybe cut with all sorts of different things because you know, your drug dealer friend is maybe not the most ethical person that you've ever met. You know, so people ask you to ask us all the time back in the shirt list of Instagram live days, we're like, what do you think of sarms? Well, there's another question submitted today so you're touching on that anyway. Oh, should I just keep going or stop? Yeah. Oh. Well, so my thing is this. So if you compete in a drug test at sport, don't take sarms because you know, that's like cheating if you're agreeing to play by the arbitrary set of rules like don't do that, just find it other than a Federation. The other thing is because we don't have this long term safety data, we don't have long term. We don't even have like performance data suggesting these are like super beneficial outside of like anecdotes posted on forums that are supported by the sarm companies themselves. I don't think that I would take them from a performance enhancing standpoint. If you want to take illegal substances that you have to get from the black market, just take the rig, the antabolic steroids. I'm not telling you to take antibiotics steroids, but I'm just saying I wouldn't take sarms. Don't have. Yeah, again, most antibiotics steroids have we have better characterized their side effects, their risks, you know, pinchal benefits, dosene schedules, such as there's more history and data on those things, particularly in humans. We don't have that in sarms yet and again where you're buying them from, you know, that leaves a lot to be desired. That's case scenario for antibiotics steroids that your doctor would be prescribing them to you. Well, disayin, that's case. Or maybe in a very long time. Yeah, yeah, for a soccer peanut patients. Correct, but from a sarm's though, like you can't get them, you're getting them from somebody who made them in a bathtub or, you know, or is it just substituting something else? So I don't think that I could recommend them. Nope. All right. For long-term achievement and increasing lean body mask, do you recommend cycling weight loss, maintenance, and massing phases? If so, what are your recommendations for each phase or is this timeline simply based on specific individuals, goals, and or response? Yes. So yes, it depends. Yes. Yes, no, it is. Correct. So yeah, I think that the general process of gaining lean body mask will involve periods of gaining weight, maintaining weight, and reducing weight. So yes, like cutting, bulking, and then maintenance, that because you can't just gain lean body mask forever and it not get to a point where it becomes very inefficient. Like it will become very inefficient. At different points, this is a whole another area of like a research where they talk about these things called a P ratio, so how you partition nutrients into different tissues in the body, and any event, the length duration is going to depend on the individual and the response to trening, which can be nutritionally, using the techniques he mentioned in the weight gain, lecture, yesterday monitoring their waste measurement, for example. Yes. So when the waste circumference starts increasing out of proportion to the body weight, then you're like, we have a problem. This is becoming very inefficient. Now, if that's just one measurement, that's the first abnormal measurement that you've gotten, maybe you stay the course for another week, and things will, you know, it was a measurement area or just an aberration. And so you can kind of go from there. But if you see somebody's waste or conference start to go up, go up, go up, go up, go up, faster than they're weight or out of control, then you're like, hey, things have become very inefficient. It's time to reduce calories and either enter a maintenance phase or weight loss reduction phase depending on what you want to do. Ultimately, this is guided by personal goals. It'd be very difficult for me to make a strong case. So for you, for instance, if you were like, should I gain weight? And I'm like, I don't know, dude, you want to. You're like, I don't know, should I? And I'm like, oh, make a decision. It's your life. It's not my life. You know? So, you know, from a coaching standpoint, if you're like, I want to be the strongest person I can be, you'd be like, okay, well, I know that increasing muscle cross-sectional areas likely to improve your strength. I know that potentially moving up a weight class would allow you to carry more lean body mass, maybe that improves your performance to a level that is consistent with your life goals, your set of goals, et cetera. I think I could make a case there. But for somebody who's very ambivalent, like us, yeah. That's what it is. Yeah, that's what it is. We need to get away all the time. It's don't care. What if we don't care? Yeah, so if IMove to the, like, so if I went up to the next weight class, 105 kilo class, and I squatted more and deadlifted more and bench press more, my life doesn't change. I just have worse sleep apnea. All right. Like, you know, and it doesn't matter to me. If it did, we would have already taken the steps to do so. Yeah. So, same thing with being lean, like getting leaner, right? So if you're like, should I lose weight? And I'm like, I don't know, what do you want to do? And you're like, you know, just like, go on to live my life? I'm like, well, okay, is your weights are comforts for the normal range? Is you, you know, are you carrying enough lean body mass? Are you, you know, enjoying your trening, all this other stuff? And you have any additional set of goals if the answer for health conditions related to body fat? Yeah, correct. So if you're doing fine, then I can't make a strong case for you losing body fat. Unless it's just your personal goal, like, I want to be leaner in which case, cool. Let's do that. Yep. I agree. Do you have anything else to do? No. Nothing. No, it's, what do you say that my answer is elegant? elegant? A, all right. Is this question five? Yes, it is. Question number five. With respect to patients getting too much information and no seabulling themselves? You thought we made it the whole thing. Carry on. With respect to patients, it getting too much information and no seabulling themselves. In retail pharmacy where's supposed to counsel patients on certain interactions, and the computer does not allow bypassing these without the pharmacist coming to the counter when patients pick up medications. IE increased risk of rabidomyelizes with statin and clendomize in or QTC prolongation with selects and zo-friend. Do you think these force councils are helpful for patients? How would you approach the patient? So, all right. So this question's saying, basically when the computer forces the pharmacist to talk to the patient about the side effects, if that is helpful to them. In an ideal world, the physician prescribing the medication should have already addressed that issue. For the two specific examples here, I'll say that with statins and clendomize in, I actually am not aware of a significant interaction there. With thEQTC prolongation with selects and zo-friend, there is an interaction there, but it's probably not a huge deal, so for an in general, not a huge deal. But that's just these specific examples. In general, I think the physician should have already made the decision. Is this a clinically significant thing that I need to be concerned about and oftentimes, if we feel that it's not super significant, then we'll bypass it. However, in the real world, oftentimes people just bypass shit that pops up on the computer no matter what. He just clicked through it and sometimes the real legitimate interactions get through. I think the most severe interactions that can happen are things that we are very appreciative that pharmacists catch for us, particularly life-threatening ones. I think that for severe interactions like that that need to be that a pharmacist catches in as forced to discuss with a patient, I don't really have a huge problem with that. Again, because of the potential gravity of the situation, the potential risk associated with it. I would not have the pharmacists say, oh, I'm going to not tell the patient about this potential risk interaction between their two medications because I don't want to know Sebo them, for example, because I think the risk again, this should only be reserved for severe interactions. If they're like, oh, I didn't want to tell the patient about that their tummy might get upset by this medication. Like, yeah, I'm okay with that. You say tummy? Yes. I'm trying to. Yeah, I see. You get it. Yeah, I get it. But for severe things, I think if you got a tellin' then you got to tellin' I'd be like, this would have been done before this got to you. But I know that in the real world, that's not always the way it works and sometimes people just click through things. It's like a legal thing. That's why this is what I'm saying. Yeah, that's why this exists. Right? So it's like, no, we told you. Yeah, we told you. But yeah, ideally this would have happened before and the, at the pharmacist level, this wouldn't have to happen, but it's just a, it's a redundant see sort of thing. And for these severe, more severe interactions like for getting rabdo from your drug interactions, like, nobody's going to know Sebo you into getting rabdo. Right? That doesn't happen. Nobody's going to know Sebo you into your QT hitting 600 and you going into, you know, dying from all of you to delete it. So, so Noesimo effects with respect to these more severe ones is less of a concern for me, compared to the more mild side effects that are best avoided when the benefit of the medication outweighs the risk. Yeah, like ED, muscle pain. Yeah, stuff like that. With the whey protein, people kept asking us which protein should I take, what do you recommend? And when we looked into it, we didn't really feel comfortable recommending any protein. So we just made our own. So we goT4 ingredients. The essential amino acid and BCA contents are very high. This is exactly what you want out of a whey protein. Do you think I should do like a disclaimer when I send out trening to people? Like, you may get too jacked. Black box warning. That's right. That was on our bridge. Yeah. 70,000 downloads was so humble, brug. All right. If a person can't complete a set of five, but you don't think they mean 200 squats. I think they made 200 pounds. I see. Okay. Portulo. Five by 200 squats. It's like five sets of 200 at RPE 8. So they know they only have two reps left in the 10th. Yeah. Two or two was there. Two or two. Two or three was in politics. If a person can't complete a set of five sets of 200 pounds squats at RPE 8 without preparatory arousal and a set of five at 210 pounds, also at RPE 8 with preparatory arousal, is the internal load the same. No. Is the trener response? No. If so, it doesn't matter which strategy one uses for daily trening. Maybe. Okay. So the way I think about this. So as far as is the internal load the same, well, no, because you've had to use more of your resources, your mental resources to get up for the set. Okay. So how big of a difference? I don't know. I can't quantify it. We don't have like units. You know, it's almost your, you have, if you had a treninGHistory that suggested that your session RPE was way higher every time that you got hyped up to do a bunch of sets. Right? So you used caffeine, you played Slayer, like you called your ex girlfriend, like, I don't know, like if all of the things. I don't know. But if, but on the other hand, if you had treninGHistory where you did all of that and your session RPE was no different, then maybe you get it hyped up for aromasingle set or few sets, doesn't matter. That's going to be depend on the individuals. So I can't say, but my gestalt would be that, yeah, maybe that maybe there's a little bit of difference. As far as as the trening response, well, one is heavier, like in absolute intensity, but since the relative intensity was the same, I don't think that you're going to get a better trening response just from five more pounds on the bar. It's the same relative intensity, you know, still five sets at RPE, still the same relative intensity. Five reps, I think it was five reps, five reps at RPE. And so it's still the same relative intensity. So from a trening outcomes standpoint, I don't know that that matters. What I would want to know more is like, were they able to do more sets, more reps, like total volume, for instance, or were they able to trenslate a five-pound heavier set of five into a better one RM? Like, I don't know. I don't think the trener response would be markedly different. And then finally, if so, does that matter, which strategy you one uses for daily trening? So if there are differences in those things, which can only be assessed retrospectively, then sure, you might want to pick a different strategy based on how you, you know, how you respond in. So for instance, if gyms like liftman, I like Taylor Swift, gives me height to tren, right? Like I take a shot of gym being every time before I deadlift, like that's my gym, and he's able to perform better, right? And he sees his estimated one on our inference is going up. All of his working sets going up, his trener response, improving overall, he has that sort of history, okay? Then maybe that is something that he chooses to use when strength is the most important goal for him, right? On the other hand, right? If he says, hey, whatever I do that, I'm good for one session, but then the next two or three weeks on average are bad, okay? Then he doesn't choose that, but you can only figure this stuff out after, like, kind of trying it out a little bit, trying it on for size, and keeping notes, which again is why you have an objective sort of metric of effort, weight, and then you subjective effort, rating of your effort with RPE, RIR, something like that. Yeah, so I discussed a little bit about how RP is actually a metric, a metric of internal load. And so from that standpoint, if we're saying we have two different sets, again, that minor difference in load that are at the same RPE is the internal load the same. Well, the internal load has measured by RP in that situation is the same, right? But if I had some sort of like biochemical test that was super sensitive enough to differentiate some difference in outcome from that metric during the activity, because that's, you know, when the internal load kind of thinGHappens, then IMay indeed find a difference. I just don't think that it's super useful to get down to this like super hyper granular level of trying to differentiate these things. And I think that looking the last thing you said was what I was kind of getting at with the idea of following this stuff over a longer period of time rather than saying like 200 versus 210 in the session is there a difference. It's like thinking to short term to like more sessions for the trees versus thinking over a longer term sort of a deal is the way that I would think about it. Yeah. And yeah, if you're gettinGHyped out of your mind for every single session, for most people who have seen do that, doesn't tend to work out for them for too long. They tend to psychologically get spent and burnout rather quickly. Yeah, that was my experience on a certain program a few years ago, around just have to get super super hyped to be able to accomplish the daily task didn't work out great until IMoved on from that approach to trening. So I don't think it's a sustainable thing. I think that we in our in our trening for ourselves, we probably tend to reserve that sort of preparatory arousal gettinGHyped up for particularly high priority sets or sessions. So our competition, if we have a session where we're doing our competition, squat, bench, or deadlift, and we're working up to a heavy single then yeah, we'll use a little bit of that to focus for that particular thing. There's a top work set for whatever reason matters to us. Then we'll do it there whereas like if it's our tertiary lift where we're doing like you know, if I'm doing like a set of 10 on the high bar squat or something, no, I'm not gettinGHyped up for that at all. Do you remember to remember Brendan? Yes. Among you. It was like it was like a gatlin gun of like ammonia stuffed into his shorts and it would be like curls. It's crazy. Yeah. That's how you live doing that. Yeah, the interesting thing. Yeah, so I think in practice how this works is whatever a high priority work out or session or something you use more tools in your bag to get to perform optimally for that. Right. So not every session can be a priority session. If every session is a high priority, the no sessions are a high priority. Right. You have to pick and choose. So for instance, I have a meet in two weeks. Right. And I'm like, all right, well, once the next time I'm going to squat with my belt, like you know, once the next time I'm going to deadlift my belt, when like my my competition lifts because I want to perform well on those on these last few weeks of trening. So that way I would have a good psychological status going into my meet. But, you know, by the time it gets to the last lift of the day, those aren't important anymore. And if I was like, you know, months out from a meet, then maybe I care a little less. Cool. Yeah. All right. 100% of my clinical experience, including clinical evaluation, treatment modalities, etc. in athletic trening school has been thoroughly debunked. What do I do now? And how do I go about introducing these pain science concepts to my colleagues? Love it. Wow. Uh, I'm going to start. Well, yeah. Okay. So you have to be, you are going to leave here with quite a bit of enthusiasm for these new things that you have learned. You have to be careful how you bring these things to other individuals in your social circles. Uh, not everybody is ready to hear these things. Some people are going to be very entrenched in their way of thinking about things or their way of doing things. So if you show up to your athletic trening school class or clinic tomorrow morning and you say, here's all this information you guys are idiots getting ready for the knowledge trening coming. Get ready for the knowledge we're about to drop it. You can't do that. Yeah. You are unlikely to be successful in delivering this information to your colleagues. Uh, so you know, I work alongside a whole bunch of other staff doctors at the hospital where I work, but I don't go around telling them you're wrong, you're wrong. You don't know this. Here's what you need to know. He actually does. So for example, on the Sarkapini peace, I gave one of those lectures similar to the one that we put on our YouTube channel at a different time at our institution and a bunch of my colleagues were there and the back listening and that afterwards they were all coming up to me very curious about it wanting to learn. So I knew that I had an opportunity to provide them with resources to go further with this stuff, right? Um, but I didn't go out and force this stuff down everybody's throats and you have to be kind of diplomatic with how you do it. Um, otherwise again, you're going to get potentially something like a backfire effect or you're just going to, you know, you're going to lose your entire chance of succeeding with this. Um, I think that's, from the pain science stuff, I included some resources and you guys books resources for patients, for professionals and then a bunch of actual papers from literature, um, on the topic. And so if you, you know, there's multiple ways to introduce this stuff. You could just strike up a conversation about what you learned, ask them if they're interested in learning about what some of the research has shown or send them a YouTube link to one of the lectures that would, you know, in our group when people ask about this stuff, we share them a bunch of, you know, or we pick a good lecture from Dr. Mosley from Australia, who talks about this stuff. He's one of the best at delivering this stuff at a kind of a late public level. And, you know, a non-confrontational way of doing it to an individual who is open to learning more is your best shot at getting through to somebody. If somebody is not interested in learning more, then just move on, continue living your life, or if you do it in a very confrontational way, you're likely to not succeed. So I think that informing yourself with a lot of these ideas from a social psychology standpoint about belief change, I like all the content that is on those micro-inies, you are not so smart podcasts about belief change. If you can understand familiarize yourself with that kind of stuff, then you'll have more success interacting with people on this stuff. But really just assessing whether somebody is open to learning more, set open to changing their mind about things potentially, exposing themselves to other ways of thinking about things. And then if you find that that is present, getting your foot in the door, and sending them resources that can hook people. You don't just say, hey, buy this 500 page book and read it and we'll talk about it, because nobody's going to do that. Send them a more accessible introductory resource where you can hook them and then you can start to reel them in from there. That's usually the way I go about it. Particularly using a 15 minute YouTube video or something like that, which is probably pushing the limits of some people's attention span. But if it's engaging which mostly stuff is super engaging, you can tell he tells great stories and gets people hooked on this stuff. Then you can reel them in. So. Yeah, I think from a practice standpoint, you're going to end up doing what you feel like is best and you're going to use evidence that you have been exposed to and your own experience. And you can't separate those things, right? So part of this is evidence based behavioral practice. So trying to expose yourself to more more evidence helps get you closer and closer to what we actually have research on. And that being said, if you, or someone you know, doesn't have the mental model to like understand pain, pain science, the hate current pain science, current management strategies, all other stuff, then you just telling them about it, it's going to miss them. It might be even a fendom, you know, you get that backfire effect. So, you know, I don't know, yeah, just similar to what Austin said that somebody asks you about it, you can provide resources and I think, or you know, entry level resources, you should have those on the ready if you actually want to be a sort of subject matter expert on this. On the other hand, if you don't want to do that, you just want to go on practicing, disinfecting, affecting as many patients as possible. I don't know that that's your role. You say, you know, hey, there's this whole like realm of pain science, like Google it. And then you focus on how to best manage your patients, you know, like peer-to-peer learning is super important, but I'm not going to pretend that everybody is responsible for that. All right, very cool. All right, so hey, thank you guys so much for coming out. Really enjoyed having you. Thanks for watching on YouTube. You guys are great. See you guys next time. The problem with P protein compared to a really high quality whey protein is that it doesn't have all the essential amino acids that a whey protein has. One of the biggest benefits of a whey protein is that it has a huge, huge concentration of essential amino acids. So what we did is we used to P protein, we took all the essential amino acids and up to them to the same level of way. So the essential amino acid content in our vegan protein is the same as a whey protein isolate. So if you are vegan and you're one in a high quality protein, this is the one for you.

=== FILE: 2019 Chicago Q⧸A： Drs. Baraki and Feigenbaum discuss SUGAR, risks of training, menopause, and more! [czhZDNSJd-U].txt ===

Hey YouTube, Chicago folks. Thank you for joining us here. Thank you for coming this weekend. We are in, well, it's Evan Stan, Illinois. But we're going to do a Q&A. We've curated somEQuestions, curated questions. We're going to get into the same way we normally do with the laptop. Okay, let's go to the first question. How do you deal with people with very low self-efficacy? Do you get to a point where you've dismissed a patient because they're unwilling to change this? Dr. Baroque. So, this is a good question because a lot of people, this is an issue that a lot of people have in terms of having low self-efficacy and a lot of it has to do with social, cultural understandings of health and health promotion and health care. These are people who end up being, they end up utilizing a lot of health care in general. For almost any symptom that they have, they may end up making an appointment or coming in or going to the ER or the hospital or something like that. And it's out of their own concern of what does this mean and I need treatment for this or I need, you know, experiencing a symptom means something is wrong and that means that something needs to be fixed. That is something that is very difficult to assess or manage or kind of work on. So to speak, in that particular setting, in that acute setting, like if they come to the hospital, that's not the place or the time to do that, mainly because they're so worried about what they came in for. But for somebody who has a longer term relationship with this individual, be it a primary care doctor or a coach or if it's a relative or a friend or something like that, I think the main thing that I would try to do is try, like we do with behavior change in general, is try to educate, try to identify barriers and try to knock down those barriers as much as possible. In other words, you try to get them a win with something. And once you get a win with something that they may be successfully been able to self-manage the first time, they're able to work through their own back to week, for example, that's a win. And then that can start to build some positive momentum for these people because their entire cultural understanding, the way they've been taught about this stuff, too date, has revolved around needing other people to fix them. And if you can kind of violate that expectation, that expectancy violation is a principle we use when we're treating issues related to pain. If you can violate that expectation once, you might be able to break the cycle and start to build some positive momentum and get some wins for the individual. So I think identifying barriers, breaking them down, educating, and then getting your first win is a big part of this process and trying to build momentum from there. I've never dismissed a patient because they're unwilling to change this because if they are coming in because they feel they need help, that would be profoundly unethical to say, well, you're unwilling to help yourself get out of here. So I have a certain ethical duty to that individual. Obviously, IMight feel that this individual may be able to manage certain things on their own if provided the skills and the resources and the tools and the education, that's something that ends up being a long-term process. But no, I have never and probably will never dismiss somebody or refuse to work with somebody on that basis alone. Yeah, not a patient. Actually, I don't think I've done that to a client. Like there's certainly been clients that I probably should have adjusted our coaching and client relationship early on. Earlier on, so that we could have a more productive relationship. That being said, how do I deal with people with very low self-efficacy? So a lot of the stuff goes back to the behavioral change lecture we talk about identifying where somebody is on that trens-theoretical model of behavioral change and providing the right resources to them at that time. So again, most people with low self-efficacy, it can stem from a wide variety of different deficiencies. So if somebody's in that pre-confrontation state, they might lack the actual insight into, well, here's why this is a problem. And so again, providing education at that point may be very useful. If somebody's like, yeah, I know that it's a problem. I just don't feel like I have the actual practical tools and skills to make an action plan. So again, you're just addressing, many people were there at and addressing what they need at the time. I don't know that I've had anybody that I've been working with for a substantial period time, have that long-term relationship. That's just been like, nope, you still bad, still terrible. And we have a selected population if they come to support this in a sense. They're selected for people who are motivated enough to buy into this. 100%. Like Australian. The main thing is that you can't, I guess you're putting it under, under pressure on yourself if you're trying to fix this in five minutes, can't do it. Or one visit, can't do it. It's not possible. So I think if that's your expectation, then you probably, unlikely. Yeah. Gary. Question number two, I have many pre-menopausal and menopausal athletes in my gym. This article sent to me. It's article from, was that JCI? Yeah, Greensdale, Greendale, 2019 for people who don't want to look it up. Yep. I believe it essentially states that in the pre-menopausal stage, lean body mass decreases and body fat increases and then sticks during menopausal. Yep. Is this article supported by data? What would you suggest to help people keep as much lean body mass as women age? So yeah, that's definitely the general tren that is reported in the data, suggesting that people who are either perimenopausal like they're very close to going through menopausal or they've gone through menopausal will lose lean body mass and gain fat mass and that is very difficult to get rid of. But these are untrened individuals, thing one, thing two, you would expect due to the relative anabolic nature of testosterone and now that they've lost a significant amount of estrogen that they would be in a better position to put on lean body mass, but it's not in fact case. There are other factors that play, including just increasing age and general which is anabolic resistant type of situation. So yeah, right now as far as the actual resistance trening and data in older and post-metapausal women suggest that they can in fact lose body fat and put on lean body mass and there's scores of weight loss data in this population too. So how would you as a gym owner as a coach as a healthcare professional counsel somebody on, you know, increasing lean body mass and decreasing fat mass? So it's not different than what you would do for somebody who's not perimenopausal or post-metapausal. It would be the same. It would be a calorie restriction for fat loss. It would be engaged in irregular resistance trening with progressive overload, you know, and meeting the least, the physical activity guideline minimums, right, and going up over time because there's this dose response relationship between trening volume, strength and high-perch fee and a preventative weight regain, particularly in folks who lose weight. So I don't know that I would change and just like we said in the female under chronology lecture, I don't know that I would change any of my management based on the fact that somebody's perimenopausal or post-metapausal other than like noting it, noted and then moving forward. So and this article, you imagine if you read that and you were post-metapausal or like getting cl- not you. Peri. Oh, yeah. And you're like, no, I'm going to lose all my gains. Yeah. I guess people could respond to it in two different ways. Sure. I agree. Most of this is in untrened people and that is the tren. And of course, the important thing to remember is that when we use the term lean body mass, that also includes bone. And so in this situation, that perimenopausal trensition is actually a good amount of it, actually occurs due to decrease in bone mass, particularly in untrened individuals. The paper they sent actually intelligently, they did not include bone mass changes in their analysis that showed some decrease in lean body mass attribute of the things like muscle mass water, things like that, and increase in body fat. But again, those changes can be attenuated or minimized by actively trening throughout that period. And I agree on the other side of the trensition, we still don't view that as a quote unquote special population in the sense that they need some sort of special trening approach. We still approach them and treat them from a trening or a programming standpoint similar to. Yep. All right, move it on. Question number three, assume in a person who's taking an adequate fiber, adequate servings of fruits and vegetables and is eating within maintenance calories. Is there any reason to limit the intake of simple sugars added or otherwise? What would be otherwise? Added or included in the food. Yeah, right, or other ones. Sure. Within the confines of maintenance calories. My response to this is it depends because there's a handful of medical conditions that have a fairly tight relationship with total sugar intake and worsening of that particular disease hyper-triculist or idiness, one of them. I still think though if you're maintaining weight and you're an appropriate body weight and body fat level and you're getting in the recommended amount of fiber and you're getting in, you're one of the 25% of Americans who are even meeting their fruit and vegetable intake goals per day, which puts you in rarefire air. That you're probably okay, right? And I don't think I can make a strong argument to the contrary. That being said, I think that if you need to lose weight, you know, so this would take this out of the context of maintenance calories, then I think reducing added sugars and simple sugars would be a good idea. The other thing I'll say is most of the time added sugars, particularly in the American diet, Western diets, and particularly in America. It's from sugars we can beverages. And the problem is with liquid calories, we don't really compensate very well. So if you take in 300 calories of liquid beverage, you're unlikely to compensate, if it's a sugar sweetened beverage, you're unlikely to compensate by eating less whole foods later on. We're just not very well set up to do that. So I think in a weight loss situation, I feel much more strongly about people avoiding sugar in the form of sugar sweetened beverages. That's like one of the first targets I look at in a weight loss situation for some people from a dietary change standpoint. Yeah. But like in this question. It's not a strengEQuestion. It'd be like you ask him, you're like Jordan Lovman. Okay, my macro is now. He finally convinced me to count my macros. And I'm wondering, what is the safe upper limit of sugar intake? I'd be like, you're fine, dude. I just do whatever. Hit your macros, hit your fiber intake. Right? And make sure that you get in your vegetable food servings in. It all turns to glucose or some sort of simple sugar anyway in the gut. So, yeah. So, I'll cut it. Today's biochemistry take. Alright, question number four. Once the patient has lost 10% of their body weight, what is the value of further weight loss, on text or something to loss about 30 pounds, be in my one from 35 to 31, should I be more aggressive about further weight loss? That's a good question. And so if you check out the American Academy of Clinical Necronologists obesity guidelines, which I, again, think are like the best obesity guidelines we have that are published and they're free, which is neat. There are some conditions that are obesity related health conditions that do respond to further weight loss. So the range that they'll advise between 5 to 15% or even greater. So, there's, again, some health conditions that have this dose response relationship to weight loss and health improvement. So it really depends on what your health status is right now. If you still are suffering or a burden of disease related to carrying too much fat mass, then I would encourage further, probably worth pushing on. Yeah, I agree. On the other hand, if you have no medical problems, your waste or conferences within check, you're very active, meaning the, again, physical activity guidelines, minimums, and I don't know that can make a case for further weight loss unless you have significant risk factors or if you just want to. Yeah, if you want to. So people like, should I get abs? I'm like, I don't know if you want to. I don't care. That's what Austin's texts that I wake up to. Should I get it? No, excuse me. You guys know that's a lie. I can only do so many hypothetical Austin news for them. Okay, question number five. Do the doctors have any experience or data to share reacute neurovascular events or injuries from trening? For context, I've seen a handful of patients with concern for Sentinel, Aneurysmol, hemorrhages or reversible vasoconstriction syndrome. How would you counsel these patients? I think I can narrow down where this question came from in our audience. Oh, geez. Oh, geez. Yeah, it's neurologist. It's a nerve, it's a nerve, it's a nerve, it's a nerve specialist here. So yeah, risks of resistance trening is an excellent question and it's a topic we've actually been considering adding a new lecture to the seminar on that particular topic. We just have to figure out where it's going to go. Yeah, it turns out we're a short on time here, you didn't notice. So when we wrote the initial up-to-date article, you know, of course they wanted us to include a section there on risks of resistance trening. And the biggest risk that they were concerned about us risks that they wanted us to talk about were cardiovascular risk with resistance trening, musculoskeletal risk with resistance trening were like the big ones. And so we didn't actually, they didn't actually ask us to do stuff with respect to nerve ascose stuff like stroke and your ismal hemorrhage or RVCS, which I've only seen a couple times, I'm sure you see it much more, much more than I do. But so while Jordan was lecturing, I actually dug in a little bit to see what I could find. And there's actually not surprisingly very little on this with respect to resistance trening in particular and risk of and your ismal hemorrhage and stroke. I did find one paper from fan and colleagues from 2000, published in British Journal Sports Medicine and the title is Physical Activity and Subaract Noid Hemorrhage, a population based case control study. And so in that paper they said four of the 149 subaract noid hemorrhages in that paper 2.7% were associated with vigorous activity. They said that after their case control analysis, the risk of subaract noid hemorrhages increased during vigorous physical activity. However, they said that higher levels of long-term regular physical activity over the past year were associated with a lower but not statistically significant risk of subaract noid hemorrhage. So they were able to show that chronic levels of trening were protective against risk of hemorrhage, stroke, but that during probably and shortly after the episode of vigorous activity, your risk goes up by some non-zero amount. And that's the reason I brought up the up-to-date articles because that's exactly what we ended up finding in the cardiovascular risk literature. In the sense that when you do this sort of trening, you are accepting some degree of increased risk of things like sudden cardiac death. Every time one of us comes to tren or do anything, there is some non-zero increase in risk for something like sudden cardiac death. They said that in the absence of like unstable chest pain symptoms, people who either have stable coronary disease or no-known coronary disease, that the risks of resistance-based exercise and vigorous physical activity in general, vigorous in this context being defined as greater than six myths, which is like jogging, running, not that vigorous really. The benefits significantly outweigh the risks. And that's kind of what I would come back to here is suggesting that the benefits of exercise likely outweigh this risk. And of course you are among these few people out there who end up seeing these complications, which is unfortunate, I don't think that we can necessarily advise widespread population-based screening for something like this or intervention upon that. For reasons we discussed for our videos in our screening podcast, we went into that in detail. So we are accepting some degree of risk every time we do anything pretty much. And so just like everything else, there's trade-offs like Tom was saying all weekend. So from this standpoint, based on the little data we have, most of which is not based in resistance trening, we can attempt to generalize and say that the benefits of this are not based on the risk of being able to do this stuff likely outweigh the risks. And that's probably the only way that I would be able to frame it when counseling a patient on this is the risks of trening, which are likely present and non-zero compared to the risks of not trening. And of course, it doesn't necessarily have to be that kind of dichotomy, right? So patients may say, well, can I just do a lower intensity type of exercise instead? I'm like, well, you could. I can't tell you based on evidence that that is actually reducing your risk any further. If that would make you feel safer or less afraid, because if I know that I know that if somebody told me that I had an aneurysm in my brain and that I was at increased risk of something terrible happening with vigorous activity, that would probably be on my mind when I went to go, you know, coal 700, right? Yes, yes. So there is some risk, you know, the overall data suggests that the benefits likely outweigh the risks, but of course that is hard to convey to an individual. They're like, but I'm not the population. I'm an individual. What is my risk? And I'm like, which I could tell you, there's probably so many people that we tren who have undiagnosed aneurysms in their brain and they go their whole life and then you find or they end up dying of something else or maybe they one day they do die that. And so that's probably the best we can do in the same way that that's the best we can do from a cardiovascular risk standpoint. There was a 2017 meta-analysis we cited in the up-to-date article where they were saying that like these specific risks with respect to resistance trening from a cardiovascular standpoint are likely under-reported and generally not specific to resistance trening. So it's like it's very hard to draw confident conclusions. And so the best we can hope to do is present some of this information to people and say, yeah, there's a risk. There's a risk to not doing this as well. Best, you know, data we can we have right now. Best we can generalize. We can say that it's probably, you're probably better off if you tren than if you don't. But there's some risk, sorry, you know. Yeah, stuff. The overall risk for resistance trening from like an, like an in, a musket of skeletal injury standpoint for all types of resistance trening. So like CrossFit, strongman, highland games, powerlifting, bodybuilding, Olympic weightlifting is very, very low. The average two to four injuries per year, per athlete or 0.5 to two injuries per thousand participation hours, which is nearly the same as walking, which is 0.3 to 1.5 injuries per thousand participation hours in walking. If you add gardening into the mix, they nearly completely overlap. So watch out for that garden bro. Like the musket of skeletal injury stuff is really low. But when we did our trening podcast, I looked up resistance trening injuries, resistance trening induced cardiovascular events. So like for, and this for for men, for instance, it's one in every like one and a half million individuals. So the acute risk of having a cardiovascular event. And women is one in every 34 million individuals, something like that. But the overall paper and the and the studies that are based off of suggests, yes, this risk is in the acute like early stage like you're never trened before. This is an un un, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, you're you're not accommodated to this level of stress. So yes, there's a non zero risk to begin with. But the chronic benefits of exercise are, you know, well established. And they reduce that risk over exactly exactly. It's just that acute sort of risk. The second part of this is as far as like screening goes. So like what sort of screening is recommended in exercise. So if you're a personal trener, if you're a healthcare professional, you're like, well, can this person tren? So I'm a client like the patient level, a client level. What they can do is take the pre-participation activity, uh, uh, uh, screener, the park you, people are cue from ACSM. That's freely available. And if there's a positive screen in there, they get referred. They should be referred to a either sports medicine professional or doctors familiar with it. There's a paramedics, which sounds awesome. And there are specific paramedics for different healthcare conditions. Like cardiovascular disease, pregnancy, things of that nature, that helped God the clinician. So those are the actual like takeaways. If you're personal trener, your coaching, you're like, you know, I don't know what all this stroke stuff is about. So we'll just, I'll just pretend that I'm listening. That's, uh, that would be the take home from that. Okay. Oh, is this thEQuestion? This is thEQuestion. What is the current evidence of reduction in knee pain from gel injections? But you mean like hair gel? No, this is the highly ironic acid. I, J, or Visco supplementation. Did I tell you something? My first coach that I ever had. So this guy, he was in my brother's PA class. Okay. A little bit of a nut. You know, I think you know that this is well, I don't want to drop names. Okay. Because the tubes. This guy was like, yeah, I've been injectinGHyaluronic acid into my hip. I was like, you wait, you've been injecting yourself because, well, yeah, I just want to see if it works. And I was like, what? He did not have a good outcome from that. But I think that mirror is the actual evidence on this overall in the, yeah, like, actually, I don't, um, just, by your tone. IMean, people do hip injections of like the, the trochanteric bursts out and stuff like that, but like an intraroticular hip injection. I know it is challenging enough to access without like, there's some things. X-ray guidance or something. He's doing this to himself. Anyway, okay. So, hyaluronic acid is this, it is a molecule that is used as part of the synthesis of collagen. It's involved in collagen synthesis and some of the other connective tissues in the need. Not collagen. Cartilage. Excuse me, I said that wrong. Um, and so the thinking was, oh, this is a part, a building block for cartilage. If we inject this building block into the knee, the knee will take it up and know what to do with it. And things will get better. And so it's been tried. It's actually quite expensive. People get this sin-visk injection, uh, usually it's a series of like three injections over a course of a few weeks. And, um, so to quote, the evidence from large double-blinded and high-quality trials indicates that intraroticular hyaluronic acid has a small clinically irrelevant benefit over intraroticular placebo. So, of course, I've seen lots of patients who say, yeah, they get the gel injections. Once a year or something like that, and it makes their knees feel great. Wonderful. Um, all the high-quality, you know, adequately controlled evidence that we have on this suggests that those benefits that they receive are contextual effects placebo effects, meaning, meaning responses like I described in the placebo lecture where, you know, they're sitting there. They have these achy knees and the doctor who has, you know, counseled them and told them about this material, how it's part of cartilage and how their knee is bone on bone. And this is going to help to restore the lubrication and help their knee move nice and smoothly. Preps them sterilizes their knee and they get to watch this needle going their knee and this syringe full of this fluid that they know is going to make their knee move nice and smooth. Get their oil change for their knee gets injected slowly into their knee space and like, oh, I can't wait for that to be in there afterwards. They're moving around. Like, yeah, that feels awesome, right? And then you do the same procedure with a placebo injection. Weirdly enough, they get the same response. So I do not recommend people get highly organic acid injections. I think the cost for the small clinically irrelevant benefit that you get from it is wildly unfavorable. And I think that most people in practice mismanaged knee oste arthritis and this has been echoed not just by me, but some of the recent publications and British Journal Sports Medicine, whether they've talked about, you know, evidence-based guidelines for managing musculoskeletal pain and oste arthritis, which echo a lot of the things that I presented in the pain injury and rehab kind of talk earlier today for people who want references on this stuff. There's a paper by RUTJES as the author from 2012, Anos of Internal Medicine and Jeves of R in 2015, Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery. And so that's the extra effort that I put in to look this stuff up while Jordan was lecturing to give you guys some sources. I guess I almost wore the citation separately. I guess we need it here today, but there's your citations. Yes, Smith was off for the study. Who's Smith? I don't know, but RUTJES sounds like, yeah. Sorry, would not do. Would you do PRP? Nope. Would you do cortisol injections? So cortisol injections, I generally don't recommend, but to the extent that they have evidence, it probably beats out a hyaluronic acid injections. I still don't tend to have people. I was trened to perform them and every time I performed them, I was like, hey, I'm doing this right now. Yes, sure. Yeah, what I would do is just bring in a big needle and then like drape, effectively drape. And then be like, yeah, no, I just anesthetized you very well. You didn't even feel like going, yeah, get that placebo. Okay, with programming, nutrition or trening, is there any evidence that shows that weekly follow-up is more advantageous than daily, twice per month, et cetera. Do you see some clients require more frequent touch points based on their experience levels? I knew clients needing more contact than a client of 40 years, for example. The data on this is actually interesting. So there's a lot of data that's been emerging due to online apps, for instance, and different online sort of health services, stuff like particularly luck and few other entities. So effectively, the more touch points that you have with individuals engaged in weight loss, for instance, the more professional touch points, the better they do. It's not perfectly linear, but that's just a general rule. And I don't know if I've seen enough data to have a good opinion on the granularity of that, one-time per week, first twice per week, firsT3 times per week, first, once every six, you know, six days or 12 days. Rather, I do know that most of the recommendations suggest at least weekly follow-up, at least weekly follow-up for people actively engaged in behavioral change. So the way that I've seen this work practically in my own sort of practice with individuals who I'm following up with is that initially, the weekly follow-up turns into usually twice weekly, because it's usually, here's my check-in, here's what's been going on, then I provide feedback and ask additional questions, and they give me another answer, and then I give them an email. So it's usually twice per week, maybe even three times a week, initially, and then that just goes down and down and down and down until it's just once per week. Where people, not, it's not that they don't havEQuestions anymore, but they're, they don't need as much acute management. Their questions are more like theoreticals or philosophical, or they're like coaching, and they're like, well, what should I do in this situation, right? It's not a personal question about how they, you know, something they should do that week. So that's been my experience, and again, I know the data suggests from this professional effect, sort of standpoint, like people have more touch points on average do better than those who have less touch points, and as soon as the study ends, for instance, for a weight loss deal, when people go from seeing people either once a month or once every two weeks to seeing nobody, they do worse. The weight regain rate is very, very high post the study ending. Give me any else? No. Yeah. IMean, frequency tends to go down a bit over time from the rank beginner to, I think that's intuitive. The trening thing is actually interesting because I have not seen any data on like physical activity compliance with either online sort of health services or like frequency of follow-ups. I'm sure that something's out there. I just haven't seen it yet, as far as with my own sort of practice. Again, like it starts out hot and heavy at the beginning and then just gets, gets more spread out at the end. Okay. Knowing what we know about the bio-sicososium oil, hey, did Daniel do the rap about the bio-sicososium oil to you? Yes, it was excellent. It was excellent. It was the best one he's ever done. We're going to put that. He posted it on his, uh, Peter. We'll share it. Peter, yeah. Did you focus to uproar? We'll get you crispy. I'm not the one. Mmmmm, yeah. down. It's gonna be okay. It's not the love down. It's got a three-to-slope range. Yes, I'll cut the weight down. Step forward. Rage motion. Can't get down. That's down. It's slow down. Put it up. Put it down. All the time. You're not a machine. It's gonna break down. You'll hide it down to the ornaments. Hope that's the break. And... Knowing what we know about the Cycle Social Model at what point does a certain movement pose an injury risk? And when should that person seek intervention from a qualified professional? So I think there's two questions. Let's answer the first question first. All right. Knowing what you know. Probably. About the... Well, knowing what you know you... Yes, right. A Pistumol... Knowing what you think you know about the Biocycle Social Model, what point does a certain movement pose an injury risk? I think that a way to succinctly kind of summarize the point there is that certain movement poses an injury risk at the point when you are... You've been... You're not adequately prepared for that movement. Sure. That's the way out summarizing. Right. So people like to dichotomize good movement and bad movement as if there's some universally like correct way to move or a universally incorrect or dangerous way to move. Again, this is stuff we see. That gets shared to us, but we get tagged in this stuff all the time, somebody's like, oh, if you just lift your arm like this, that's like, you know, red X for bad for your shoulder or something like that. We don't agree that there are inherently harmful movements. We think the body is very robust. Resilient can execute a wide variety of movements, can tolerate and adapt to a wide variety of movements. However, when somebody undertakes some sort of a movement that they are unadapted to handle, they're not adequately prepared to... That's when there is likely some increase in risk. And that may be, you know, in the sporting world like field sports where you'recompeting with other people. And there's a lot of, you know, that's where a lot of ACL injuries happen. For example, planting and twisting and dodging around other people, where the environment is much less predictable and it's kind of... To an extent hard to prepare for something like that, outside of general strength trening and the other evidence-based ways we have to reduce injury risk in field sports. And in the gym, you know, we don't tend to be very, very perfectionist with our movements. We like to promote the same sense of resilience, but we like to say that, hey, you know, whatever movement style you end up kind of gravitating towards. If you tren that for a very long time, you know, that's fine. That's why we see people who round back deadlift 900 pounds without evidence of issues because they've been round back deadlifting since they were very beginning. The gym probably added five pounds. Well, that's oftentimes, you know, the way it goes. So they've adapted to that movement strategy and that's probably the way that I would summarize the ideas about like movement and injury risk. There aren't really concrete, you know, high risk particular movements that I can point to particularly in the gym context. Of course, in field sports, again, certain types of planting and twisting and stuff like that are going to pose you to certain risk, which we may be able to reduce certain interventions. But for our populations trening in the gym, you know, you can move a whole bunch of ways and be fine. It's just the loading, the progression, the adaptation that matters. You wouldn't suggest that people take a lateral blow to the knee with the helmet. I would not suggest that. Yes. Yeah, I agree that I don't think there are any like unique exercises that we can perform in the gym that are uniquely injured like have a unique injury potential. Unless you're unprepared to perform those exercises, not from like a skills standpoint, but mainly from like a workload tolerance. Loading stance. So that being said, I don't think that again, performing any exercise in particular is necessarily dangerous unless you do too much of it compared to your previous workload. You know, towards too heavy, which yeah. So the interesting thing is like people say you should never do an upright row because you'll saw your super-subinatus tendon in the half. Yeah, IMean, there are lists of these things behind the necklaces that are even squatting. Yeah, it's like you've just tried to harm people. You've just posted an article that's hurting people, which is ironic because you're, you wrote the article to try to help people, but what you're doing is hurting people. By putting this negative expectation, this hyper vigilance, this exercise of witness in their head, got forbid somebody reads this upright row, and ever has to lift like groceries up like this and like, oh no, my super-subinatus tendon. Oh gosh, I need an MRI immediately. Some hyaluronic acid. So yeah, I think that you summarized it perfectly. I wouldn't suggest that any exercise is injurious, just like any particular technique during an exercise is particularly injurious unless it violates that acute on chronic workload or somebody else like hit you. There's uncontrolledbolistic movements. Unproductive stuff, traumatic stuff. Yeah, all this stuff goes out the window, but in a controlled trening environment, you can adapt to all kinds of crazy stuff. IMean, if you look in other sports too, right, you look at gymnasts, you know, you look at various other types of sports. Like, people can do all kinds of crazy amazing stuff with their bodies, right, when it's properly dose progressed and, you know, adapted to overtime. And again, the injury rate for resistance trening at large is lower than a lot of those other. Yeah, so like body building, for instance, has the lowest injury rate of any resistance trening modality of power lifting's right after that, which again, if you look at that specific data, you're looking at less than two injuries per thousand participation hours. Now, if you look at just strong manner, high-ling games on their own, you're looking at like five and a half injuries per thousand participation hours, which may owe themselves to the movements not being able to be scaled quite as linearly, right. So like you go to a strong, if you'recompeting strong man, right, then you have to like subject yourself to a lot of exercise that you might not be able to tren at your particular gym. Just use you lack the implements or the specific thing. You can do at the competition, which is bad deal. You want to comment on the last part, like when you've answered that one, but if you don't want the professional deal, we've answered that one. Okay. If you're concerned, you can see, you know, IMean, we can't tell you to not go see somebody for something, so if you're concerned, what do you go get not recommended somebody to do? Yeah, but we can't guarantee whether this person who you're seeing knows what they're doing. So it's kind of an unfortunate thing. So that's why I don't really have much to say on that. Yeah, if you're worried, I would recommend seeing a professional, if you were asking for a particular professional to see, I think Derek and Mike. Yeah, I would recommend that. If it's a musculoskeletal injury, pharmacist and trening, those guys, I don't know if people do an a better job than they are. So anyway, okay. Moving on, what happens if you replace saturated fatty acids with proteins instead of carbs or other types of fats? Okay, so I talked about this in the lipid lecture where we talked about was saturated fatty acid intake, the role of replacing it with other types of nutrients, whether that be other types of fatty acids, unsaturated types, polyunsaturated fats where we have randomized control trial level evidence that that type of replacement reduces cardiovascular risk. The mono-insaturated fatty acids where we have evidence suggesting that it reduces cardiovascular risk, although not super super high quality randomized control trial evidence. And with carbohydrates where we said that replacing it with refined carbohydrates either has no effect or increases cardiovascular risk and replacing it with morecomplex or whole-grain carbohydrates tends to decrease cardiovascular risk. When replacing saturated fatty acid intake calories from that type of intake with dietary protein, there is also no randomized control trial evidence on that with respect to cardiovascular risk death things like that. However, there is evidence that with respect to certain cardiovascular risk factors that it generates an improvement in those things. I think it is likely that you would get an improvement from something like that, but I don't have clear like RCT evidence to point to on that. A good reference to look at for all of the stuff that I just said, if that was like a blur, is this paper by flock FLOCK and colleagues in 2014 titled macronutrient replacement options for saturated fat effects on cardiovascular health. Yeah. The way I like to think about that is if you're trying to reduce saturated fat intake, as long as you're not replacing it with either trotter or sugar, like trens fats, you're probably okay. Yeah. Yeah. But if you need to lose weight, like I just wouldn't replace them. You just go into the calorie deficit. Just lose some weight. Okay. In a classroom situation where a professor either teaching a regular exercise science or health course or a professional medical class, when they teach information that's related to pain or injury that is not supported by evidence, and it's potentially harmful to the people listening who don't know any better, is there a place as a student to talk to the professor about this if so how should it be done? You want to start? Yeah. One of our clients and PT students who is in our Facebook group posted about this recently and he was like losinGHis mind because he tried this and got a massive backfire effect. So it may or may not be worth your time. It's important to get if that you have a sense of the extent to which this professor who is in a position of authority over you who is a lowly student, who doesn't know anything from their perspective, how receptive they may be to some sort of evidence. If you think they may be, then the way I would do it is just, hey, have you seen this evidence? What do you think of this? Now they may well say, I don't like it for whatever confirmation bias reason that leads me to reject evidence that I don't like. If that's the case, then just move on with your life. If they say, you know, that's interesting and look more into it and it spurs some discussion, then that's a huge win. But I think that you cannot put too much emotional investment into this thing. You may be able to, you know, introduce them to something that they've never heard of or read before, which would be impressive. If you manage the pull that off, I think it's unlikely if you're say like the first year post grad student or something and you have a PhD that you're presenting this stuff to. Just recognize that yes, the information that you may be receiving is net is is incorrect or harmful and you may be seeing this as like the end of the world because all of your classmates are taking this information and they're going to go out and spread this harmful information. And while probably true, the world is very large place. So, you know, if you're unable to impact that person, you cannot, you know, hang your personal self worth on your ability to influence this and just move on with your life and try to influence those who are more open to this stuff. I think that's the biggest thing that I've kind of had to learn over time was just to detach myself emotionally from some of this stuff because some people just you're not going to get through to and the world's going to keep on turning. All of the back of the has no feelings. Yeah, it's a weird one. A little known fact. 17 years. Yeah. Yeah, which is while we have people claiming that they're, you know, ahead of the evidence, especially in the rehab world and they say they're practicing ahead of the, they're just waiting for all the literature on their favorite modality. The favorite modality to catch up. Meanwhile, the evidence suggests that they are in fact 17 years behind. Yes, correct. Yeah, it's what's it just. You know, the interesting thing was this, so like an arm medical education like our neuronatomy professor Dr. Aravich, shout out to PFA, you won't watch this, but maybe he did. And he made it this far. And he's still watching. He actually taught us a lot of this pain science stuff. Like it was there. Now, every presentation that he ever did to us was like hundreds of slides and say you're just like, okay, and this is in medical school order and other classes that are also hundreds of slides. Yeah, and you're like, okay, but he it was all there, right? And the interesting thing was like, see, you would expect as somebody who's now up on pain science because it's been communicated to you in a way that's successful digestible and something you understand. You're like, you guys probably eaten it up, weren't you? No, we were stupid. We couldn't. It wasn't available. We didn't have a mental model to like for that to work within everything else that we knew. And even then amongst other professors, they weren't necessarily saying that either. So it's not like we were getting beat over the head with this every single time we just missed it. There was just too much information and we were unable to process it in the way that hopefully you guys have now processed it after it was presented here this weekend. This stuff was told to us in that school and it just. Yeah, because we were too busy trying to memorize everything else we had to memorize. Yeah, but you went back and saw him. Can you imagine if you were like, told him with his pain science stuff he goes, yeah, so I just got PRP injections. Oh, you're like, no. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay, cool. Last few questions. Yeah. To clarify, is there no additional benefit to higher repetitions as recommended in the star rehab protocol? Is it the load reduction that is helpful to the rehab process, not the higher reps and metabolic fatigue? As the movement in and of itself and load reduction, the key factor in reducinGHealing time. Question mark? I really had to like go up. It's like stoop. Yeah. Working on a little nomm? A little beginning, middle of the night? Are you? Yeah. No, no, no. You deserve a break. Okay. That's my best doing. So this question has a number of assumptions that I think I would just get out of the way. So the star rehab protocol, just for you guys don't know, is that if you whatever movement you injured yourself on, let's say that you hurt your hamstring, right? This is for muscle belly. It's supposed to be for a muscle belly tear. You tore a hamstring during the squat. Whatever. The first person's ever done that. No, let's say that happened. Then you would use the squat and do five sets of 20. The next day at a very lightweight, maybe the empty bar. And then you would add 10 pounds and continue to do that until it got heavy enough for you had to do sets of 10. And you would do in five sets of 10. You do in nothing else besides squatting on a daily basis to reduce scar tissue, apparently to encourage blood flow to the area. I know like look. Okay. All these things are supposed to be happening. A few things. The star rehab protocol is not evidence based. Meaning that for muscle belly tears, resistance trening in that fashion has not been shown to like in reduce time to recovery. That being said, being sedentary has been shown to reduce our to to encourage increase the time. It takes you to come back to your previous form. So yes, we would encourage activity. But we would not necessarily recommend the star rehab protocol. So if you're asking like, should you do the star rehab protocol full stop? No, I wouldn't do it for anything. I would not recommend that's not wouldn't be my recommended rehab protocol. The second part of this is asking are there a benefit to doinGHigher petitions during times of if you have an injury. And I think that is a reasonable sort of program modification because it reduces the load that you're going to be working with. You have less expectations about how much weight you can handle. So you're not going to take it up to RPE 11. You're not going to turn your amp up to 11. You're going to be like, I have to do such a 15. That sounds terrible. I'm going to go to a more moderate load. So in fact, if you look at our knee rehab template, our low beat, low back rehab template. All of these things start at higher repetitions. And then work their way back to normal trening. Okay. Also helps improve like sort of strength, a force production endurance. So strength endurance sort of deal also gives you a little bit extra volume to build your sort of tolerance to trening back up before you return to your normal trening. So high repetitions can be very useful. Okay. That being said, it doesn't like shorten the window to recovery of performance. The last thing I would say on this, the load reduction is certainly a part of being able to participate in activity when you have an injury. Particularly in this in the theoretical context where this is supposedly applicable. If you have a muscle tear and for some reason you decided to not reduce the load. Right. If you could, right. That would not be particularly intelligent thing to do. Yeah. You almost have no choice but to lower the load. And if you want to get a trening stimulus from it, then yep, reps are probably going to go up. Yeah. The way I think this happens is like, star was asked by somebody to be like, hey, what should I do if I have a torn hamstring? And he's like, um, I'm going to make this up. Just do this. Maybe like, let's, let's start rehab protocol. Bill Star was a great lifter, which is true. Great lifter. But I wouldn't recommend that for any rehab of anything, even a muscle belly tear. What would I recommend? Let depends on a muscle belly tear. I don't think I would recommend five sets of 20. That's a hundred reps. The hundred reps. It's a lot. Um, you know, it would probably be sets in the 10 to 15 range of exercise that you can tolerate that, you know, work a full range of motion and potentially the injured tissue. And if you can't work that injured area, because it's just too sensitive, too painful, whatever, then I would do other exercises that don't work that area, yet allows you to continue being physically active. I know this crazy stuff. Well, it's kind of like when I presented the approach to injury and I was talking about like the load increment. And I said like a five to 10 percent load increment. For example, as our usual approach, particularly early on in the rehab phase, and I added the caveat that this is made up. And it's not evidence based. And I fully admit that, and that's just our general recommendation. IMean, this is the same thing. This rehab protocol is also just made up. And certain people have had good experiences with it, which is fine. Um, I'll also probably take a different approach to rehabilitating these sorts of injuries, but fortunately, we don't see these sorts of injuries all that often. Yeah. But it'd be definitely a tears. Yeah, just don't happen all that often. So what would you do if you rupture your biceps tendon? Uh, I would get surgery. Oh, really? Because you're that concerned about these statics? I knew that your bodybuilder heart. Yeah. As you can tell by my, you know, enormous digestive zones. Yeah, exactly. The YouTube's gonna have a field there. Right. Yeah. All right. What's the intensity break point between the 150 to 300 minutes of modern intensity activity per week? Verse, the 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity activity per week with regards to the physical activity guidelines for adults? Uh, so you look this up. You can go ahead and do this. Well, I just wanted us to give specific answers. So in that literature in these specific guidelines, they define moderate intensity activity is something that is between three to six Metz, Jordan talked about in Metz in his lecture referring to metabolic equivalents. It has to do with a metric of kind of energy expenditure and examples of activities that fall in thaT3 to six met range would be something like walking. Somewhere at leasT3 miles per hour. Light cycling would be in thaT3 to six met range versus vigorous in this literature greater than six metz of activity would be something like running. And so the idea is that from the physical activity guidelines from 2018, they suggest that you can do either or or combination of the two in order to achieve a target of 500 to 1000 met minutes in a given week. In a met minute, you would basically take how many metz you're expanding and a given activity times how many minutes you're doing it. So if you have five met activity for 30 minutes, you just multiply the two and that gives you a measure of how many met minutes you expanded. You want to get a total of 500 to 1000 met minutes. Now, most people out there and we certainly don't expect you guys are going to be tracking this and calculating your met minutes per week, right? They have to give us something specific to counsel people on. So moderate activity three to six met range, vigorous greater than six. They're met, you know, met about equivalent charts that can give you ideas of how vigorous of activity we're talking about here. So either or or combination to hit that target is the goal. Yeah, the way I actually do this like practically is if for moderate intensity stuff, it's RPE six or lower, which is more boring than hard. You can talk in complete sentences. You can't sing though. It's like a little harder than singing. And then for high intensity stuff, you cannot talk in complete sentences, just short stances. Kind of this respiratory RPE, if you will. Restart RPE. What if I do a thousand met in one minute? It's a one arm deadlift. Maybe. Maybe. All right, last question. Okay, do you have any suggestions on how to collaborate between doctors and treners? I guess it depends on like who you are. And actually, I think if you're a doctor, it's going to be easier to collaborate with a trener. Yes. If you're a doctor and you walk into a gym, like a black iron gym, or someone you have great coach. And you say, hey, I am a primary care physician or an internist or whatever. And I have a lot of patients I'd like to refer to you or like to collaborate with you so that we can, you know, help reduce all these diseases of Western civilization. And then the guy's like, oh, like, I don't know what you just said, but I've been to squats and you're like, cool. Not that bad coach, they know, build what insane. Build what they're like. Build what insane. Build what insane that. So I think it's much easier for the doctor to actually take the initiative on this one. I probably wouldn't necessarily recommend that a trener try to take this on their own accord and be like, reach out to a bunch of doctors. Because I think it's, yeah, well, so the deal is because I think it's almost a waste of resources. What I would rather have them do is hook up a physical therapist and other sort of care providers like that so that you can trensition people from. People are being discharged from rehab. Correct. Exactly. And at that point, then the, just trickle up effect. Right. Yeah, that's what I think has a higher success rate. IMean, when I was coaching full time like that, that was my, that's what I ended up doing with PT's and Powerpractors in the area. And then I ended up gettinGHooked up with a few internists who also wanted to refer me to people. But I already had this sort of cache a where I was like, oh, yeah, I'm working with Dr. Soinso and his patients or her patients. And I kind of had that already. The other thing is if you're a trener, this is the interesting deal. Like the ACSM call American College of Sports Medicine, that certification, the health and fitness specialist carries so much weight in the medical community for no reason. The certification is not great. It's not great. But they're like, oh, you're ACS of certified. I've heard of them. They did the sports medicine fellowship. They do all these other guidelines like this. Great. And you're like, cool. It's the cheapest main certification that I can get. So thanks for recognizing. So I think that's useful. As far as how to sort of do this collaboration though, the way that I envision this, the way that I envision this and the future is that People like treners and doctors are working together seamlessly. Meaning that doctors like, yeah, I have this patient in my primary care practice and I'm sending them to you for therapeutic exercise. Well, I'm sending them to you so that you can get them up to meetinGHer exercise guidelines. There if you got to be clinically relevant. Yes, there if you're a little more specific. And also engaging in nutritional changes that I've recommended. And now you have more time to counsel them. Sure. And I think doing that instead of like the diabetic education program, for instance, I would rather have people do that. Yeah. That's it. Thank you. Thank you.

=== FILE: 2019 St. Louis Q⧸A Part 1： Training Sensitivity, More Pain Science, and How to Press Big Weights! [YukTQPHRii0].txt ===

Hey everybody, thank you guys so much for coming. We're at the St. Louis seminar, my hometown. If you have to leave early, we understand. And for questions that we didn't get to, that you don't see on this YouTube video, you can ask it on our forums. And we'll try to answer it there. Also, Sliding Austin's DM's, he loves that. Yeah, I look at all the DM's I get on every day and make sure I'm fully caught up all the time on all the DM's I get. So yes, Austin first, then the forums. Okay. We're going to go through these curated questions and try to provide some nuanced answers. Yeah. Okay. Do you think that the model of trening sensitivity is more static over a career that can't change? Or is it more dynamic depending on other factors that are determining responsiveness at that particular time? Kind of have an difficult time understanding. I think they're asking if your trening responsiveness is variable over time, or if it's pretty much static, over the course of a trening career. Oh, I just thought it was kind of an interesting thing to think about. Sure. I don't know. I think that your trening responsiveness does and in fact change both in the acute setting and then chronically, acutely like when your environment and psychosocial inputs change dramatically. So again, periods of high stress or supersprim below stress, higher motivation, low motivation. I think all of that portends change in outcomes for how much trening adaptation you get from a given level of trening stress. Because the internal load is likely changing and it's trying to load drives adaptation. Since I didn't say that like 45 times. Yes, Chris. The important takeaway from that. But then chronically, your trening adaptation is likely as you near your peak, your trening adaptation is going to get smaller and smaller and smaller from more progressively, more and more trening stress. And then as you start detrening, your really going to reverse roles a little bit. As you become less and less trened, your adaptations actually might increase magnitude, but you're still trying to hang on. Yeah, I think that we've distrust before how from a trening sensitivity standpoint or trening resistance being a spectrum of the same phenomenon. The more trened you get, the more trening resistant, you become, right? Meaning that a given dose of trening stimulus does less and less for you. That's why we PR maybe once a year or something. Like a true one RM effort if we're we have to put in a ton of trening to realize that sort of an adaptation and performance, a huge amount of trening compared to when we were in our earlier more trening sensitive days getting big adaptations per unit of trening stimulus. But I definitely think that on a shorter time scale, say day to day, month to month, week to week, whatever that it's likely variable depending on all these other factors that can influence internal load. Yeah, I would also just not think about trening response on this industry like vouts. Meaning that, like for instance, I don't think that you have a stress or recovery and an adaptation that are all separate from each other. Rather, you have accumulated stresses and recoveries taking place 24-7 and adaptations are taking place 24-7. And then what you get, again, that balance shift from the negative fatigue, more that shift more towards positive fitness adaptations use are able to realize potentially realize the improvement of performance from those fitness adaptations. And it's always occurring all the time. So it's not like one workout generated x amount of fitness adaptation and then you're able to realize that at some discrete point in the future, more likely that a series of workouts has generated a series of stress that has all culminated to drive a certain fitness adaptation. So I just don't think about it as this. That's completely. OK, do you find that physicians are less receptive to the idea of sarcopenia in patients with obesity? Yes. Do you remember? Oh, no. Anne, it totally, I get a lot of funny looks from physicians when the patient is obese. This would also be true of hey, this patient meets Aspen criteria for malnutrition. Yeah, yes, to both. So the sarcopenia obesity is a big subcategory within sarcopenia and technically obesity. But it's under diagnosed and then under treated as a secondary to that. And then I think people are more dismissive of that as well. So when you look, not just look at somebody visually, but even on a chart, you look at a person's BMI and there's BMI's 35, 40 or something like that. But they have obvious muscle loss in their appendicular skeleton. And their function is very, very low secondary to just being weak, having low amounts of lean body mass. So you're saying, well, this person would benefit from losing body fat, but also benefit from gaining muscle mass. That's hard to square in your mind for a lot of physicians who are unfamiliar with the term sarcopenia obesity. And then the prevalence incidence, all that other stuff. The Aspen guidelines actually talk about this in particular and recommend a high protein diet, resistance trening, as well. And then they also do recommend, obviously, body fat reduction, bio calorie reduction in this as well. So I think what you're, but that's not obviously happening in a hospitalized setting. Yeah, I definitely think that physicians, IMean, even having these discussions among my colleague colleagues, they're generally, we can pretty easily recognize somebody who is truly what we call a cacetic, meaning like their skin and bones, like the end stages of certain types of conditions, like end stage of cancer or heart failure, COPD, sarosis, chronic kidney disease, many of these, and some autoimmune conditions can result in just muscle wasting, but cacaxia in particular is refers to a situation where there's a loss of muscle mass and a loss of fat mass. So you're basically like actually skin and bones, right? Sarcopenia specifically refers to the muscle mass loss. And you can have sarcopenia with an excess of body fat. So that's kind of a slightly different situation from cacaxia where that's just total energy and muscle wasting, low body fat, low muscle mass. Now we're talking low muscle mass, high body fat, is sarcopenia obesity. And there are, basically, strata of risk that increase between normal kind of lean body mass and normal fat mass or increased fat mass compared to sarcopenic patients do worse. And then sarcopenic obese patients do even worse and just the sarcopenic patients do, because not only do they have the complications from sarcopenia, but they can have the metabolic complications from having obesity, metabolic complications referring to the cholesterol problems, insulin problems, high blood pressure problems, diabetes, things like that that also bring in their own risk into the equation. And then you can get even more granular with this. And if you've measured bone mass and the bone mass is low, you can have something called osteosarcopenic obesity. Where you have low bone mass, low muscle mass, because remember I described how those tend to track together, so somebody has a lot of lean body mass, probably it includes their bone, but you can have low muscle mass, low bone mass, and excess body fat. That's a common situation that's really quite dangerous, because you have all the complications of sarcopenia. If you're to suffer a fall related to that, you're more risk of having a fracture, because you have osteopenia, and you have the metabolic complications of obesity. So that's a bad combination to have, and those are the people who above all else, more important than it is for anybody else, need to tren. Sure, yeah, you recommend lentils. Lentils, they're great. Yeah. All right, question number three. What does the process look like for people who carry bad narratives with them into your consultations? How do you redirect them into what the evidence actually says? Yeah, that's a great question. A lot of this has to do with the motivational interviewing skills, and I don't, that doesn't just mean like listening to people, and being nice. There are active skills that have proven benefits in these sort of clinical counseling realm, trying to explore these different ideas and narratives that people have. So in particular, what I like to do, because this happens with clients that I work with, that I'm not even working with, and I go, they don't come to be from pain rehab consultation, because you think about the people coming to Barbell Medicine for pain rehab consultation, I do think Derek and Mike are some of the best in the industry doing this. But there are already sold on this. We don't have to like sometimes. Yeah, that's all. Not all of them. What I would say, most of their experiences with people who know who we are, what we do, and kind of our methods, rather the people that I coach, not all of them are up to speed, necessarily on our pain science stuff, and our message, and stuff. So that's a little bit more unique situation. So a lot of times that I start by trying to get the individuals to tell me what they think is going on, why they're afraid or what they're afraid of happening, what they expect to kind of happen, just elicit, all of these sort of, this narrative, and then go from there by trying to not correct because I don't want the writing reflects to come up where I tell them something, and then immediately a challenge is there like core beliefs, something and they want to tell me that I'm wrong or otherwise dismissed what I have to say, but rather try to lead them in a different direction. You're trying to lead them through this conversation in a very nice way that doesn't challenge their beliefs directly, but rather gives them thoughtful questions to sort of allow the possibility of them being they're preconceived expectation and notions to be wrong without them appearing to be wrong directly. Sure, because it's basically a less confrontational way of leading them through the evidence rather than the opposite example is, yeah, actually, even if you do have a horneation, doesn't matter because in the next six to nine months, it's going to resort anyway, that's probably actually not even a horneated disc type symptomology because those are unreliable findings, and so you'll be fine. Not only does a person not feel like you heard them, but they also don't feel like they were able to express themselves and all of the things that are going into their thought process, so they're not even in a position for you to tell them, like actually there might be a different side to the story. So building that narrative initially, like eliciting that and then kind of walking them through in a step-by-step process that doesn't directly confront maybe some of their beliefs and beliefs systems is a straddle, one strategy that I like to use for motivational interviewing, and this is just a sign I'll let Austin take the reins up to this, the role that can mill their book is pretty good. We got that in medical school, actually, I forgot about it, and somebody was like, you guys should up your motivational interviewing game, read this book, and I was like, how to have this book? I feel like I read it at some point, or was supposed to read it, and so I got to sit down and reread it. And there's just a lot of cool nugget pearls in there that I do intuitively, because I either I was exposed to it, or this part of my communication style, but I think people who haven't had that sort of experience in the professional setting would benefit. Even if you're not a doctor and you're a trener, or you're a coach or something like that, these skills are useful, so it's just a book called motivational interviewing. Yep, but you guys would recommend. Yeah. Yeah, my process for this is in some times, it's similar. So thEQuestion was, what does it look like to deal with these kind of harmful or bad or incorrect narratives and how do you redirect them to what the evidence actually says? I don't always, IMean, I frequently don't try to like bring scientific evidence into the discussion with the individual, because again, they want to feel heard, and if you start throwing like research at them, that's not gonna get you anywhere. It's good for us to know the research, but we don't need to just throw PubMed at people, that's not gonna do anything. My approach to this probably looks a little bit different than what Jordan described in their some situations where IMight bring in evidence like the discussion of a substantial proportion of herniated discs heal on their own in a few months. Yeah, that's a good little tidbit to have to tell people, right? I think that more often what I'll do for in this situation is either find aspects of their history that conflict with their understanding or their belief or have them do things that then conflict with their expectations, that's called expectancy violation, in other words, so to give some examples. Somebody might say that they have severe knee pain due to bone-on-bone arthritis in their knee, for example, right? Or they have back pain due to a herniated disc that they feel like has been there for a long time and is never gonna heal. Well, a simplEQuestion that you might ask is do you ever have days where your symptoms are better and symptoms are worse? Like, do your symptoms ever fluctuate? Because of course they do for all the reasons that I described in my lecture. And say, yeah, I have some days where I don't feel any pain at all and some days where it's excruciating and I can't get out of bed. And it's like, well, I have a hard time understandinGHow that might happen or how can you explain how your symptoms fluctuate if you have bone-on-bone all the time or if you're disc because herniated and pressing on that nerve all the time. How is that possible? Shouldn't you be having symptoms all the time or do you think that something else might be affecting your symptoms? And they're like, you know, I guess there could be something else that might influence my symptoms having better on some days than another. Maybe we can work through this and figure out. What are the patterns that are more consistent on days when you have better symptoms? And there may be like, well, it feels better when I'm doing this particular activity, which is always some activity that they, you know, really enjoy or are looking forward to doing or something like that. And it's much worse on days when I've had horrible sleep or I have a ton of stress or something with my family or whatever, you know, other factors that can influence that kind of experience. And so I've found something that conflicts with their understanding and that can get my foot in the door to, hey, maybe it's not all about the tissues here. Maybe there's something else besides just the bone and the bone in your knee or the disc and your neuroferent mental space in your spine or something like that. So that would be one thing from like a historical discussion perspective or alternatively from an experience situation. Somebody might say, I have back pain and I'm afraid that if I bend over, that somethinGHorrible is going to happen. Well, IMight coach them into gradually bending over and getting them to the point where they can do an activity and prove to themselves that what they expected was going to happen does not in fact happen, right? That might require a lot of coaching and reassurance and working through the process. But if I can get somebody to, you know, with knee osteoarthritis to sit down and stand up out of a chair a few times and their symptoms don't get wildly worse and maybe that violates their expectations to the point where I can start to build some positive momentum from there. So I really like the expectancy violation piece here to try to just plant a seed of doubt about their existing understanding of things and then that can blossom into this new narrative that I'm trying to build up in their minds to get them engaged in the process of working towards recovery. Yeah, I actually think that's an important point also that what we do here, like it's not like we narrowize the person and then as soon as the end of that, you know, like from men and black, that thing and then afterwards they're paying free and they're just like, wow, I never experienced that after you explained the bio-cyclist social to model, I had to make. Okay. Yeah. But rather, and this is, it's more like the plot of the movie inception. Right, it's evidence by the expectation violation thing that once you've planted the seed of doubt and you get somebody to break this idea like, oh, that's supposed to be bad. I had these fears. This, you know, making things worse that they're more accepting of like, yeah, like I have some pain right now. I'm gonna get better. I know the steps that I need to take to get better and I'm actively involved in that process. And so that process, both gets to start and then subsequently end sooner because they're actively involved and you've broken that cycle. It's not again like boom, you're paying free. You know, here's the invoice. Yeah. But it just does difficult a process of behavior change. It's all the stuff you discussed on day one with obesity and stuff like that. But I think probably the theme of this weekend is behavior change in self-efficacy. Right? When you say, if we had to distill it down, yeah, just like it's hard to do. But sometimes it'd be like that. Sometimes it'd be like that though. But you know, you're resilient human, you're powerful, yeah, and capable of change. Yeah. All right. Question number four. That was like really home, like, like meaningful. Yeah, man. All right. Is there a correlation between oral contraceptives and tendon or ligamentous ruptures? I see that you have, yeah, I wanted to ask curious about this. I thought it was a good question. So I went out and did some scouring. Sure. And it was lecturing. So I had never heard of any association between oral contraceptives and tendon or ligamentous ruptures. The theory or the concern behind it has to do with the idea that certain female hormones like progesterone, for example, can induce laxity in some of these connective tissue structures. And if they induce laxity, then you may be at an increased risk of some sort of an injury, a rupture or tendonopthier or something like that. And so it turns out that females, in general, there's pretty consistent evidence, particularly in the realm of ACL ruptures. For example, that females are way higher risk than males of experiencing ACL rupture upwards of eight times greater risk in sports that are somewhat demanding on the ACL, for example. Strength trening is definitely among our biggest tools in mitigating this problem, getting both men and women to tren. Strength trening is one of our biggest tools for reducing the risk of ACL rupture here. But thEQuestion had to do with correlation between oral contraceptives and these sorts of injuries. And so found some data. One was from a paper by Canopa in 2019. This was a systematic review. I think they looked at 29 studies. And they ended up pulling out a subset of them. Two or three were like soup was fairly high quality. The rest were of mixed or lower quality. They said that the higher quality studies suggest that oral contraceptives decrease a female patient's risk of ACL injuries in ACL laxity. The strength of these findings however is weak. So they found some evidence to suggest that actually oral contraceptives may decrease the risk of some of these things. And the thinking or the proposed mechanism was that when you have a combinerial contraceptive, which again contains estrogen and progesterone, it tends to actually shut down the full dynamic flux of the full kind of hormonal cycle over the menstrual cycle. And so if to whatever extent those hormonal fluctuations have a role in these risk of these injuries, shutting down that cycle by the use of oral contraceptives may mitigate that risk. So overall, I'm not sure how confident we should be that they decrease the risk because some of that evidence is a bit weak. But I definitely don't think we have evidence to say that oral contraceptives increase the risk of these things. And that would not be anywhere on my radar as far as a concern if a woman was on oral contraceptive and was playing a sport or resistance trener or something like that. And that's not something that I'd be concerned about. Compared to something like, oh, this person is on a Cipro antibiotic for a prolonged period of time for something. That's a medication where it's like, yeah, that antibiotic definitely has a risk of tendon rupture. And that's something that I would be a bit more concerned about. Whereas oral contraceptives, not really an issue. You work in for big pharma? On the side. On the side. Yes. So here's the real question. I work for big generic. Big generic. Yes. Yeah, big, big Walmart. Yeah. What do you think a bigger problem is, with respect to women in stren trening, the risks of oral contraceptives induced gains attenuation or unwanted pregnancy? Yeah, probably a ladder. Yeah, just from a population-based, probably the ladder. So like telling people to stop taking oral contraceptives, when you are not the prescribed in position, seems just like a bad move, bad juju. So maybe stop doing that on the internet. It's you. Stop it. Question number five, what is Austin's favorite whiskey? Is oddly specific. Yeah, people want to know. All right, what's your favorite whiskey? So I'm a rai in general, more often. I like bourbon too, but I raIMore often. So the Thomas A. Chandy rai is my favorite rai. Excellent. Question answered. Yep, boom. Next time. I've been really liking that CYPB. Oh yeah, from a weller. This story is, so this is funny. My friend Daniel J, who owns a gym in Santa Cruz. He picked us up three bottles. He kept two from himself. Got me one. You can think he paid $39 for these bottles of weller, create your own bourbon, create your perfect bourbon. Create your perfect bourbon, yeah. And anyway, and as soon as, like when you brought it to me, I feel like this is way more expensive than $40. I'm just going to Google, like what's this going for now? Well, that's though that would be the retailer of the MSRP, but whiskey, secondary market is just insanely expensive. Yeah, the bottle probably goes for $700. And I go and literally had just opened mine. Like I just opened it. Like, do you want me to put this label back on? Like, yeah. And he goes, no, man, it's for you. It's a mouthful. All right. How would you handle a patient who's very, very dependent, or possibly even reluctant towards increasing self-efficacy? Actually have a few clients that are within this realm, but it's fine, because our relationship is still appropriate for the type of relationship that I'm willing to engage in. Now, you may have different values, different availability, different wants needs, et cetera, and a person who's very, very dependent, may even more than what I'm willing to offer right now. So what do you do in that case? So you have a few options. One, setting the expectations about what you are and are not willing to do and how you are and are not willing to engage. So for instance, if a client were really one in my personal cell phone number, that's a no for me. It just don't do it, because I don't want to engage in that type of personal connection, while IMay or may not be available for providing coaching insight, but I'm very responsive to emails and very responsive to Instagram messages. So, and they know that. This is all some expectations that have been set. On the other hand, you may be totally fine with that. So again, different values, you have to draw different boundaries. But what I found is when it's compromising their ability to actually see progress, because they're so, so dependent, is actually very similar to your expectation violation thing, because they almost feel paralyzed. I need you to tell me what to do. And instead of just enabling them and say, fine, I'm going to do it, it's just a deeper conversation. I'm like, what do you think you should do? And they'll say something like, I don't know. And you're like, okay, well, let's bracket this. So for instance, the person I'm thinking of in particular was like, I cannot pick my weights. I need you to tell me exactly what weights to lift. Every single session, that's what I would prefer. And I'm like, I understand that, whoever, because I know that your performance level on a given day is 100% guaranteed to be in flux. And I will not always be there to tell you, I feel like we need to develop these skills. So if I was trying to pick a set of five repetitions at RPE9, what is a good range for you? What is the best on your best day do you think you could do for a set of five on a squat? And then she gave me a number. I said, I'm on your worst day. What do you think you would do for a set of five in that same intensity range? And she gave me another number. And I go, great. That's your bracket. That's where you're going to start. Start on the low end. And then you're able to add weight to you, hit that high end. She goes, OK, I can do that. Because again, you've literally just worked through that single problem. And you've given them a tool and a sort of way to view the problem that they thought was insurmountable. So it challenges again, that what they initially had. On the other hand, people may have unrealistic just expectations about what the coaching relationship looks like. And I think that you have to determine what type of coach you're going to be, what type of interaction you're going to have with them. And then start that from the beginning. And so if you're three or four months in and you haven't done that, well, you got to do it now. But I do like that expectation violation for this particular situation. Yeah. And that's a good example. IMean, the theme of behavior change continues here. And within the world of behavior change, if you're having difficulty with behavior change, the number one thing that you need to do and the number one thing that we identified and point out in the lecture is you need to identify the barriers. So he identified the barrier in this particular situation. Where was this person having difficulty? And how to do it selecting weights. And he proposed a skill or a strategy to work around that barrier. This is the case for every single type of behavior change. If somebody is having difficulty, your task is to identify the barrier. And then try to develop a skill or a strategy to work around it. Now, you may be able, you may have the knowledge, the experience you may have some skills and strategies in your tool bag that you can offer this person. Or it may be a situation that maybe you've never experienced before. Maybe you don't know how to work around this. And your options are to either provide your best guess and experiment with this individual. And then you could learn from the experience too, or you may refer to somebody who you trust to help somebody work around some of these issues who may have more of a knowledge base, more of an experience base, maybe an expert in that particular field. So if you're like a coach, and you have somebody who is dealing with severely disordered eating, we need to develop some behavior change. Maybe you don't have the skills, the strategies, the knowledge, the understanding base, to actually help somebody work through that, which is probably the case. So a good option would be to refer that person to somebody who does have the kind of base of experience and knowledge and skills to help somebody work through that. But again, all of this is identifying barriers, developing skills and strategies to work around them so that we can build the self-efficacy so that people can self-manage. That's been the theme from the first five minutes of this weekend when I was talking, is the idea of self-managing around these things. The opposite of this is dependency, where he could have just fed off of that person and said, yeah, you definitely need me to pick your weights every session. You need me to watch every rep that you do. Otherwise, you're going to hurt yourself. And you're going to need me to do this for you for the rest of your life. Keep paying me. Yeah. Can't give you the keys to the castle. Right. But this is like protected knowledge. That's not what we want. So open source. Yeah. Thanks. How would you, oh, samEQuestion. You talked about the best predictor for improving the function of fast switch and slow switch, much of muscle fibers is treninGHistory. That's not true. So it sounds like you can change them over time. Yes, you can. If someone genetically has more of one of the, or one, if someone genetically has more of one or the other, can you change that through trening? No. OK. So I answered all that. Moving on. So what I said was the clear file. Yes. Well, the best predictor for portion the proportion of fast switch to slow switch muscle fibers is the sport and level of that sport that people participate in. Meaning that if it is a power dominant sport, like Olympic weightlifting, and you participate at the international level, you're very much more likely to have a high percentage of fast switch muscle fibers than somebody who participates in as a marathon at the regional level or local level. So it doesn't mean that you can shift between type 1 and type 2 fibers. That's not been shown unless you actually literally cut the nerve and then re-intervate the nerve into a different motor unit. You actually do see that change in experimental models. What we see, what we do see in vivo in the human body, it's sponsored trening, is that you get a switch between type 2A and type 2B muscle fibers. Type 2A muscle fibers being low velocity, high force production, somewhat fatigue resistant. Muscle fibers is as a general kind of description and type 2B muscle fibers beinGHigh velocity, high force, not fatigue resistant at all. So if you're in sports that involve sprinting, jumping, punching, kicking, high rates of force production, high velocities, you would want those type 2B fibers to be selected for. So your trening should reflect that. So for example, if you had a sprinter 100 meter sprinter, and you were in charge of trening, then most of their trening should be done at high velocities. Heavy sets of five or six or whatever reference all our retreats made up. At heavy heavy weights with low bar speeds would be deleterious to their progress. Because you're then inducing a change from those fast high velocity force-rucine muscle fibers to the low velocity muscle fibers or in other words, type 2B to type 2A. And you wouldn't want that. Also, things you might include would be maybe some of the Olympic lifts for that population or jumping or plyometrics, stuff like that. So it's just going to be specific to the type of trening and tight end goals that you have for the person. As far as what if you should include high velocity work or not. Now, IMade a case during the programming lecture that I would prefer for non-specialized athletes to incorporate a wide range of trening, intensities, exercise variations, and rep ranges. So then the logical question that is, what about speedwork? If you're going on and on about this high velocity force production stuff, why doesn't the average Joe get trened for high velocity force production? And my answer to you is, if he or she is not involved in a sport in some sort of competitive level that's meaningful to them, that I think it's a waste of trening time for them from a health standpoint. Meaning that they're going to get all the benefits they need from resistance trening with respect to improvements in strength, power, and lean body mass without ever having to focus and sacrifice, therefore sacrifice trening time for high velocity trening. That being said, if they were like, look, man, I play in this softball league, and I really need to increase my bad speed. OK, we can do some high velocity work then, or somebody who's like, I'm MMA curious and want to get better at MMA. IMay include some high velocity work for them, even if they're only rolling twice a week, even if they're not technically specializing for that sport. On the other hand, if the person doesn't care enough to really compete at any sort of level, then I'm just not going to sacrifice their trening time for what I would consider to be a really not useful trening goal for them. You guys notice how he just had an entire back and forth between himself for the past 10 minutes? I do that. You did the, on the other hand, like, four times. So four minutes. He does that. Well, somebody asked you, they were like, who would win an argument? You were Jordan. And then your response was, well, Jordan would disarguate with himself. Yeah, so an Arnold Kerenha, Jordan. True. All right, resistance trening is great in all, but what would you suggest for patients who present with chronic pain and notes are to tren with weights? Obviously, there are benefits outside of pain to tren, but what other modalities interventions have been found to be effective? Yeah. So I don't think that the context of this question is exercise for the treatment or improvement of chronic or persistent pain states. And for that purpose, I don't think that these individuals have to lift weights. You just don't. Obviously, that's our bias as we like people to do that, but you don't have to. You can get a quival, we have no evidence to suggest that you can get better outcomes from resistance trening, lifting weights compared to any other form of exercise for pain related conditions. Of course, as IMentioned, you'll hear people say, oh, you have pain because you're weak, and you need to get strong, and that's why your pain will go away. That's not the case, and that's not how this works. There are so many different levels of changes in the individual, at the individual level from their neurological states, psychological state, biological things that can change over the course of trening that might result in an improvement in pain if they resistance trened, but that doesn't mean that the mechanism of pain improvement was an increase in strength. So really, what we aim to do for people who have chronic or persistent pain states is, typically, these people are coming in. There's evidence to suggest that when they come in for consultation, the primary reason is not the pain itself. The reason why they come in for evaluation, for consultation, is because it is preventing them from doing something that they want to be able to do. The pain itself is not usually the reason why they come in. And so our job is to identify, hey, what do you want to be able to do? And so they'll offer whatever that is for them. And then our job is to develop some sort of a physical strategy to work them back towards being able to do what they want to do. That is important above all else for this population. Get them back to doing what they want to do. Once they're at that stage, then we can say, hey, have you heard of these general physical activity guidelines that we like to try to get everybody working towards doing resistance trening, doing a row of trening, because of all these benefits. But when they're coming in disabled from their persistent pain, that's not really the time to be throwing this other stuff at them. Unless they already want to lift weights, which I would say is likely uncommon. But prevalent in some an hour selected population who come to us. So key number one is definitely finding out what is important to them to be able to do. And then developing a strategy that they can buy into to work towards that. Sometimes, one of our, a friend of mine who I've met to is a clinician in the space he travels around and does seminars on this. His name has been Kormack. He's a funny guy and he is big on a bioscicial approach to exercise prescription for individuals with pain. And he talks about this a lot. And I went to his course and hung out with him and we talked about this stuff a lot. And he demonstrated a lot of his strategies and his approaches to this. He tries to make it not feel like exercise to the individual. He tries to get them to do activities that feel more like play, like actually for adults to like play in the clinic and do certain things that again have some expectancy violation to them that maybe they didn't think that they were able to do. So somebody who has chronic back pain, he would have them maybe, you know, they would get literally like a boosubal or something and they would bend over and grab it and then roll it to him across the floor and then roll it back and forth. Meanwhile, demonstrating to themselves that they can bend over and roll this ball and it's okay. And that's the first step again to getting your foot in the door and finding some method for progression. So sometimes for some people, it's about making it not feel like exercise. Particularly if they're not interested in exercise. But finding out what they want to be able to do and finding out a physical strategy that they can buy into to work towards that. And sometimes, sorry, then core-mic. Oh yeah, core-mic. Yeah, yeah, he's a funny guy. So that's a good resource in terms of exercise prescription for patients with persistent pain. He's a good guy. But definitely have to find out what activities are meaningful to the individual, what matters to them and then how can I help you get there? What kind of things do you think would help you get there? You notice how with our behavior change approaches, we are asking a lot of questions of the individual to elicit this stuff from them rather than top-down saying, oh, you just need to deadly. You know, let's go. No, they don't necessarily need to deadly. And in order to improve their pain, we would like them to in the long term. But everybody needs to deadly. Yeah, eventually that would be nice. But they still don't have. I think Magnuson said that if you cannot deadly life is not worth living. Yeah. Well, it seems like they seem to be a little restricted. Yeah. It's for abuse, little restricted. All right. Does motor control trening matter are gross movements greater than smaller more controlled movements, especially in the beginner? IE if someone is struggling with driving the knees out in the squat, do you tren with smaller movements, such as clamshells, et cetera? So does motor trening matter? Motor control? Motor control? Yeah. Does motor control trening matter in isolation? IMean, it can be beneficial, particularly for individuals who are unable to have a sort of framework for contracting a certain set of muscles or moving in a certain way. So for example, somebody, when you say, yeah, yeah, it can squeeze your lower back into extension. And they have no idea how to do that. And you're like, no, no, what's your lower back? Squeeze it. Please. I think, can't do it. So you put your hand on their back. Come on, right against my hand, squeeze there, nothing. So then you put them on the floor, they do some superman's, and they can, you got a lot of flies. You're like pig pen right now. It's not me, bro. It's us. No, no, no. I noticed that there are distinctly on the side. So and you put them on the floor, and they do some superman's. So you put them on a back extension bench, and they get some blood pumped in the area, and then now they can all of some feel that with that area, and they're able to contract it. Well, that's one type of motor control trening. I don't think that that is something that we use frequently. Mainly, I think our idea of technique, particularly in the large, the compound movements, is this sort of self resolving type of technique improvement. Meaning that you take somebody who's very new to trening, and you try to teach them out of bench press, for example. And you show them all the main pillars of the bench press. And when they're actually benching the bars all over the place, you know, you kind of say, hey, I would do it this way, you know, work on this. But you're not going to hammer it all out on the first session. The second session, they've got some take home homework, cues to work on, it gets a little bit better. Third session, a little bit better, four session, a little bit better, 40-its session. They benched like a seasoned veteran. You got to give them kind of this leeway to practice, experiment, get their cerebellum, say, melt, that's not the way you do it. Nope, that's not the way you do it. Ooh, that's better. And then it's a build this motor pattern, or supplementary motor cortex, which is in your cerebral cortex. But the cerebellum, tell them, that was wrong, do it differently. All right, thank you, motor learning. So I don't think that I would automatically move to a smaller movement in order to correct one of these things, unless it's like this long standing persistent issue that is causing sort of either reduction in performance, or I perceive to be reducing a person's ability participating in recreational or competitive pursuits. But otherwise, if somebody's knee's are caving in on the squat, there's some weight that they can squat and keep their knees out, or I need to adjust the stance, because it's too wide, and they like actually can't, or just their to-put position, or the weight, and usually there's something that I can address there, rather than switching to clam shells. Because I just don't know about the trensfer in between clam shells and squats. But to suggest that all motor control trening movements are essentially useless for essentially everyone would be a gross overseen, and I don't think that would make that. Yeah, my question here would be to define what motor control trening is. All right, so what about superman's for lower back extension? I say that's just a movement, right? I would view the squat as a motor control exercise. Well, you have to be motor control. Sure, I would view the deadlift as a motor control exercise. I would view whatever goal movement you're trying to tren towards, just an exercise in motor control to execute said movement. Sure. But there are categorically unique motor control exercises that we can like deploy. Well, that's needed for this kind of thing. Do you think that there's an exercise that requires no motor control? No. That's kind of the point. Kind of the point here, right? And so just reflexive. Yeah. So I don't know that I can't think of a situation really almost never have had to regress to some sort of very, very non-specific movement, like a clam shell or something, to get somebody to be able to squat the way I would like them to squat. And that's not patting myself on the back for like remarkable coach skills. But rather that, again, within our view and model of the significance of technique and things like that, and also recognizing that in the world of motor learning, allowing for greater movement variability, we have pretty clear evidence that allowing for more movement variability can actually improve motor learning. Meaning that if I'm introducing you to a new movement, rigidly restricting you to only be able to move in a particular way, actually makes it take longer for you to learn how to do that and to urge to allowing you to explore different strategies to execute the movement. So allowing for movement variability has been shown to accelerate motor learning. And so I tend to not be super nitpicky on some of this stuff. And in fact, sometimes we had somebody this weekend who I was coaching on a squat, and he had an issue with consistently getting on his toes when he was getting in the bottom. And I was queuinGHim off his toes, off his toes, and he wouldn't really come off of his toes. And so we had talked about the use of certain movement variations on the squat in order to expose him to alternative ways of executing the squat as potentially a way to acquire new strategies to stay off of his toes, maybe instead of low bar squatting, all the time, introduces a high bar squat, change a few variables in the picture and find new some new strategies to execute this movement. So all of this is an exercise in motor control. I think that, you know, demanding, I would again caution thEQuestion asker here, a way from perfectionism, of course. But of course, we also want to acquire the skills to execute these movements. And I think that, you know, it doesn't take a ton of coaching to get people within a reasonable degree of acceptableness that then refines itself on its own. So on my deadlift platform this weekend, had a trenee who was having a lot of just kind of slop and wiggling around during the movement. I told her I said, this is not something that I can really coach, just something that's going to work itself out as you continue to practice this movement. Because the wiggling around is different on every single rep. So it's not like one cue that I can use for this. That's typical. That's like, you know, when you're an infant and you stand up for the first time, you're decidinGHow to take your first few steps, they all look different, right? As you gain your bearings about, hey, how does the world work? Here you're gaining bearings on how the deadlift works, or how the squat works. So allowing for motor variability in the early stages of motor learning, I think, is actually useful. And another case for using variation a bit earlier, rather than rigidly, prescribing, you know, aromasingle perfect way to move right from day one. Would you say that it increases the learning curve? Or it is. We're not going to go there. I'm just want to say for the record that if you increase the learning curve, it's a deeper, deeper, then you are achieving mastery that you're learning faster. All right, compared to a sustained, we'll agree to disagree. Yeah. They're a grass from PC, Godships, the inventor of DC blocks. Well, one of the theories about DC blocks are very versatile. IMean, I'd be recycled plastics, 100% recycled plastics here in the United States. They're two inches tall, and they're only 10 pounds, the weight in each one, you can stack them up, as high as you want. You can do weight, they're originally, they are designed for weight, lifting exercises, to tren high block or little block snatch, pools, and clen and jerk pools. However, you can do all-grain squats with them various plant metrics. Get a giant out of the 101 uses for using blocks. Depth of slip lifts, depsy, dead lifts, locked dead lifts, step ups about going to the... Yeah, they're great. I've definitely, I've done a bunch of pulls off them. I've done use them for splitsquats, and everything else. The best thing is they're much lighter than like a traditional set of jerk blocks. Which, yeah, it's, you can actually move them around your gym. And then where can people find out more about them? You guys have a website at ISEU. First of all, you can find more on it. WDU.dcblocks.usa.com. Now, Derek, take us through, just give us a brief synopsis of your weightliftinGHistory. So we're gonna ask you a weightliftinGHistory question. I want people to know if they're not familiar with you, where you come from and what you've accomplished. I started back with those about 16 years old, I watched a couple of... Where the thing was very big on television, back in the days of what they've seen, why I've watched sports. So, and I played football, and I was very small, but fast. So, like high school, where the program was just for bigger stroke, half squats, dead lifts, bench press, and things like that. That was doing, back then you can find magazines on the grocery store shelves, about where the muscle of fitness, strength and health. Iron man magazine. Right figure, oh, I see these guys put them in the right-s over there. What's this about? Ask my net. If you knew anybody coaching that, it just so happens, the best bread was coaching in Belville at the time. He took me down there, when I was 16, and I had a talk, Ted Frank, taught me the clen and jerk. Dad, I just fell in love with her. That's all I wanted to do, right? That's all I wanted to do. Yeah, and then you've had quite a story career. So you ended up going to Olympics twice. Ninety-dated four, Ninety-dated. Was the Nailup Games, Ninety-dated, I qualified for my junior world championships, and junior Pan America championships got third there. And then several World Championships, a Civil National Championships, and several European and Asian different championships, and Australia, Australia, you're basically like that. Very cool, very cool. Now, so this is important to give people context. So we're going to ask you, how you were around when people were trening the press during the heyday, when it was still a contested lift. How did people press so much weight overhead? How did people do this? Well, to be true, I think they did. I did beat the press I've never made a little bit of water. But I started in 76 and then was right after they got rid of the press of 72, however. The guys I drank with were very good. The press and they still did the press. Got it. And so I was always amazed, because my daughter knows that we have a terrible family history. I've become from descendants of T-REFs. Big legs, big butt, big back. But little spiny arms. We can only feed ourselves. We don't like to do push-ups, and you don't like to do presses. Yeah, so what would be, so I was, they taught me a little bit about the press. And when you power clen, you're supposed to catch the parkly with nice posture. Maybe you go for a jumping position to the right to a swap position. feet, which you catch for a nice and high. Well, the Olympic press was a power, essentially a power clen of the tie or split clen. Then you sit, so catch it here. Right from the jerk. You catch it immediately, sit back. Right. That's your position for the press. And that becomes, I don't know if this looks little bit back, so I won't do it just like you're sitting back like this as opposed to here. Then you can throw it to give you the command to press, just like you do, and power the thing. And you put it up. And then you put it back. And then you sit and up. So you're saying that you should catch it while you're laid back. Ideally, that's how you would start the press. The accuracy of the start command for the press is you catch it with just your stand there and then I'm not. Right. If you look at no nonsense, old school, the way that they're on Facebook, you guys really post great videos of people press it. And it becomes, oh, that's pretty apparent, how they just, they can just follow not this and like this. Yep. And then they launch it. From the front, then once you're like you're fine, you're pretty, pretty upright. Because the referee's rational order, then you hit like you're on the stage. Right. Thought it there. And then also, you're not supposed to reinvent your three-pender feet. But how can they see that? You're supposed to have these at least straight. Well, sort of politics got into things you could have a little bit of a knee bit. Oh, maybe they can see that. Maybe they know maybe the soil is blood. The referee doesn't see the disease of America. It doesn't see the soil being guy. Right. And then vice versa, same with Soviet, you know, you America judges. Now it's a disqualified, a Soviet lift or versa, no whole course now. Yeah. Let's really insightful, Derek. Thank you so much for taking the time. Really appreciate it. Thanks for your attention. See you this guy. See the clouds amongst the sun. See the day for everything that could be. Stop trening on that smooth button. Run. We are. Open your eyes and see everything it was. And isn't will.

=== FILE: 2019 St. Louis Q⧸A Part II： LBM and Health, Genetics, and Arguing on the Internet! [x9XChHwbnUc].txt ===

Alright, it was stated that intermittent fastinGHas little to no long-term health benefits. I thought that it has been confirmed to improve insulin and proof sensitivity to insulin and the problem of insulin resistance is a big topic. So I was surprised to hear that intermittent fasting wasn't more accepted this weekend. So what I said was that there are no unique benefits to intermittent fasting over any other type of diet that's matched for calories or weight loss purposes for weight loss purposes for at which extends to things like insulin resistance, diabetes, hypertension, etc. There are no unique health benefits associated with intermittent fasting over the same type of diet or the different type of diet with the same amount of calories. Suggesting that there's nothing uniquely beneficial to intermittent fasting. Now the people on the internet will say, but you are telomeres or you're growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or you're this or you're that. And it's like that's great idea. Okay, I'm glad that you read it physiology textbook. That's great. Where the citation suggesting is actually moves the needle forward with respect to human health because we don't have those studies right now. The latest two meta-analysis, one came out in 2019, one came out in 2018, suggests that there's no benefit for weight loss and no objective health benefit that's unique to intermittent fasting. It doesn't mean that intermittent fasting is bad. If that's your jam, if you're like, look man, I get up, have coffee, roll out the door, go to work, don't eat till lunch and then I eat until 9 p.m. and then I stop eating again and that allows me to be adherent with the correct calorie level, hit my 10 servings of fruit and vegetables per day, hit my fiber goal, maintain enough lean body mass that concourse with long-term health outcomes, tren appropriately live, unactive and fulfilling life. Then, woo, rocked on. On the other hand, suggesting that more individuals switch to an intermittent fasting diet to achieve those goals is not incorrect too. If it is, in fact, you're a bag baby, like switch, or continue. But if it's not, there's no unique benefits there either. So I'm not against intermittent fasting anymore that I'm in support of intermittent fasting. That makes sense? All right. All right. We will find out. I'll be curious to see what comes to this chrono nutrition stuff. I agree. As of now, I've been a reason to recommend it over anything else. Sure, yeah. I like Boston Powers reference. Are you welcome? Austin, speed of Austin Powers, discussed the processes, the processes of primary and secondary pain sensitization of an area to an acute injury. Is there any evidence that secondary stress, process, persist, well after the injury is healed, and is there any tendency for the secondary process to de-localize? I.e. lead to increased pain response in areas other than where the original injury occurred. Yep. That's exactly what happens. So thEQuestion here is about secondary or central sensitization, which is somewhat of a poorly understood process, but in general, remember I described how acute sudden injuries tend to heal in a matter of days to weeks. But this process of sensitization, both at the tissue level and in the nervous system, the secondary sensitization process, begins at the time of an injury. Now in some people, this sensitization resolves as the injury heals and you go back to normal and you have no residual effects. In some other people, the local sensitivate sensitization improves, resolves, but the secondary sensitization persists or even worsens over time. So their nervous system gets kind of ramped up, gets into a wired up state where they're generally more sensitive. And the hallmarks of this are two phenomena, one called aladinia, which refers to when you have pain and response to non-noxious stimuli, meaning that things that are not normally painful are now painful to you. And another would be hyper-algizia. Hyper-algizia was described as a situation where things that are typically painful are more painful than they would otherwise be. And it's not just restricted to the local area of the initial insult to the initial injury, or more pain, more tender everywhere. So those are hallmarks of secondary or central sensitization. What we don't know is why this happens to some people and not others, why this progression tends to happen. We also don't have very clear mechanisms of resolving it outside of what we typically do to treat individuals who have chronic persistent pain through education, exercise, and working the back-to-normal function, somehow, some magic happens, and people can kind of ramp back down over time. But it is a relatively poorly understood process. There's tons of research going into this research in the level of the spinal cord, or at the level of the brain, and pharmacology research, and psychology research. I think that as of now, if I had an individual who had a sudden new onset pain, an assessment of their pain self-efficacy, and there's a validated questionnaire for this for pain self-efficacy. If I could assess that right off the bat, that's going to be probably my misch predictor of their likelihood to progressing to chronic pain, or a persistent pain state. And so that's the main thing that I'd be working on is trying to beef that up and get them engaging in activity and addressing their thoughts and fears and beliefs and things like that. But I don't have any medications that can prevent this. I don't have any surgeries or injections that can fix this. I don't have anything else. It's a really bizarre process. And eventually maybe in a few years or a few decades, if we're still doing this, seven-harrin, we're talking about some of the things that they should have a better idea of what's going on then. But yeah. Uh, Jordan, that's me. Yeah. Do you say Panera or Breadco? I say neither because we don't have those in San Diego. No, I say St. Louis Breadco to anyone who listen to me because... Yeah. I'm representing, yeah, I'm six, three, six. I'm from the county. All right? What? A little more in a race to St. Louis, I was here for 24, 25 years in my life. I love this place. I introduce these folks to Square Bionca pair, Emos Pisa. So these jokers did not believe me when I ordered this. So the record I ordered three X-Law to pieces, one Law to pieces, the three X-Law to the brooding, one Law to pieces, because often has peculiar tastes and pizza. I'm just wondering if you get them. But here's the thing, these are practicing pizzas right in. All of us are going to eat the substantial amount man. The worst thing is you run out of pizza. So, not in my watch. I'm gonna get ahead and guess your score, but... Thank you. Is it five stars? Yeah. So most people either hate it or love it. It's very polarizing. Polarizing pizza, Austin, what do you think? It's acceptable? All right. All right. So I'm happy to report that all of them said that it was great pizza, which is not the typical response. Because people have different expectations, but I think what it is is I inculcated their subconsciousness. I was like, hey, look, you set certain expectations. I did set it. It's like cracker thin. We have Provel Cheese. Here's what Provel Cheese is. It's got careaway seeds on there. This is great. It's my favorite. You're got a like it. I bet you're got a like it aren't you. People see photos. I did. I did. No, it was great. So I say something was bread companies from here. Love this place. But I will say this. Living San Diego is awesome. Okay. So yeah. All right. In Austin's sarcopenia lecture, he made the point that he wouldn't be as worried about a 75-year-old Jack dude who presented with the flu, but would be worried more about a 74-year-old who just lost a bunch of lean body mass. What does the mechanism by which increased levels of lean body mass protect the older people against things like flu or pneumonia? Can I just say that you're not sane? You're not sane necessarily. They protect them from the actual infectious ideology. You're insane. And what you did say they protect them from a bad outcome. Secondary to that infectious. Sure. 80-ology. Yeah. The best way to prevent that stuff is to get your immunizations. But you know, like vaccines. But you know, big vaccine is so, you know, paying us hand some leave. I'll expect that check. You know, from the American Academy of Pediatrics. Big newme of X. That's how I threw. You imagine? I'm getting prevenor and newme of X chicks. Yeah. All right. So the mechanisms of frailty of sarcopeneal of caceccia, all these kind of categories of a decrease in lean body mass, or really complicated, has to do with inflammatory processes, immune processes, endocrine hormone related processes, processes related to your kind of your energy, metabolic status. So there's a tons of things that when sarcopenec, sarcopenec, it can be a reflection of those bad things going on, meaning it can be a proxy or a surrogate marker of a whole bunch of bad stuff going on underneath. Then reflects an increased risk for bad things happening. But in addition to that, remember how IMentioned that lean body mass, particular muscle mass, is a storage site for immunosens. And that serves as a reservoir for these immunosens in periods of high stress, of fasting, of illness, things like that for your critical organs that actually need these immunosens, we're able to do their normal functions, do what they need to do. So it's a two-pronged thing. One is that the sarcopeneal reflects all these other bad things going on under the hood that leave you more susceptible to complications from these things, whether it's to flu, pneumonia, or even increased risk of like post-operative complications, if you're to undergo surgery or something like that. So if I admit an 85-year-old person to the hospital and somebody's suggesting that they need to undergo surgery, I'm like, they're pretty high risk of having some complications likely of dying from this, from undergoing this surgery because of bad things happening because of all this other evidence that I have to suggest that. But also if they're sarcopeneic, they have low lean body mass, low skeletal muscle mass. They have relatively little physical, what we call a physiologic reserve. This reserve that under periods of stress, they cannot tolerate it as well, and they're at risk of various complications. Whether that be a cardiovascular complication or they go in a renal failure, they have. Some other horrible complication that can ultimately result in worse things happening or end or death. But unfortunately I see this nearly every day because in most of the patients that I see are frail and some fashion, whether they're cakedic or sarcopeneic obese or they're just sarcopeneic on its own. And all these things are just increased risk for bad things happening. So that means that when I'm doing things two people act to be very cautious about what I'm doing, particularly to these older people that I see most of the time. So if I have somebody who's really enthusiastic about some interventions, I'm going to say, hey, let's re, you know, rein in the excitement about doing this thing to this person, because there are some significant risks that we could call some harm here, right? And we have to be cognizant of that, particularly because they're thin and frail and weak. Maybe if they really need this, maybe we can get them to a better nutritional status, better strength. State before we do this, if it's more of an elective thing, if it's an emergency, you do what you got to do, or you figure out how necessary it is for them. They're current situation. But one really cool thing that I think it's overlooked with respect to muscle mass is that when you tren it and you engage it in like heart efforts on a regular basis, it actually releases hormones that act locally and also systemically to do really awesome things like decrease inflammation, decrease pain, for example, improve immunological function, etc. They're called myocines, these little muscle derived hormones, and they do a bunch of really awesome things. And failure to actually use your musculoskeletal system to do to engage in regular, you know, vigorous physical activity, I think, is one of the big big problems. IMean, it is, in fact, one of the big big problems of modern society. And it's funny, we did last night we recorded this little segment called this or that, where people asked us questions, it was this or that. And so one of thEQuestions was like, would you rather all doctors know about the physical activity guidelines, specifically recommend resistance trening, or would you recommend that all doctors know about the nutrition nutrition guidelines and recommend those? And we're like, unanimously, physical activity guidelines. So we think it's a bigger, bigger biological level to pull. And so if you want to help your parents, your grandparents, family members, other family friends, etc. Age gracefully have a good high quality life, get them to tren, get them to tren, take them to the gym with you. Okay. Three morEQuestions left. One of three. You are both very specific with your language. Does this stem from med school, legal ramifications in business, or have you both always been like that? Definitely haven't been like that. Yeah, so I don't, not necessarily legal ramifications either. I don't think either of us have this like preconceived thought we're like, this could get me in trouble. Haven't been sued a whole bunch. But I think we're both very clear on the extent of how confident we can be in saying certain things. And we want to say things that are, you know, as clear as possible and as accessible as possible and stated in a way that's also true. So we have to say them in a way that is very carefully selected. And so neither of us wants to be wrong and neither of us wants to be misunderstood. So we try to use very careful wording to accomplish all of those tasks and be succinct. Wait, even though I fail miserably. Yeah, you do. This is succinctness, yeah. It's fine. You leave out the nuance. That's why I edit your stuff. By bringing the nuance. You leave out the nuance. And I got to bring, yeah. Yeah, I agree. I'm not a ton to add. IMean, I think it's just, I would, the things that I say, the claims that IMake out, pretty be able to defend and not necessarily in a legal sense, but I'd like to be able to support what I say. And that means that I can only go so far as what I'm able to defend. If, you know, I'm not a fan of just making shit up, which a lot of people are fans of making shit up. That's easier. It's certainly easier. Do you want, you know, especially if you can just ignore block whatever people who can you imagine what we could do. We could do so much if we just decided to make stuff up. Yeah, say things very confidently because the public prefers concrete answers. Yeah. Right. And then we just, we're doctors. So yeah. Also, like, super strong. So check that. Modern, it was wrong. Well, yes. Yes, right. And the grand scheme of things moderately strong, unoppressive. Also, it's powerlifting to one cares. But yeah. We could do a lot with that. And it would be so much faster and easier to do. Yeah, we wouldn't have to read anything. You just say things. Yeah. All your pains from intentions. I can fix them. Yeah. Pay me. Sure. The reason why you're not your trening, you know, is not going well. It's because you're not following my nutrition plan. My top secret, you know, gains, you know, master 3000 nutrition plan. You have to sign up for my eight week course and tomorrow. All right. Second last question. You are both big on saying that if you read something online that is demonstrably false or an accurate experience, just move on with your life and not engage. Have you always been this wise or was this learned from experience? It's definitely learned from experience. And probably for me. Yes. I like it. I like argue with these idiots because it's fun. It's just fun to see the mental masturbation that they have to do to maintain their own personality. Right. Like they are their personal view of themselves. It's like they have to go through all these hoops just to maintain, confirm their own previous view of themselves of the world. And it's like you have no expertise in this. All right. But I just to watch people squirm. It's so much fun for me. But here's the old one. So I'm like, you're thEQuestion said. I do it less. I do it less. But because I only engage in ones that I think that. ThEQuestion said why don't you do that. Yeah. So here's why it's awesome. It's different. Yeah. Right. Oh, the difference is between us. Yes. But when I engage, it's only in a situation that's either highly public where everybody's going to see. And I think that I'm going to get some social experience out of the deal. Or that I control the playing field. Meaning you can't delete your thread. For example, or I could just block you or kick you out of the group. If you start being very, very aggressive and breaking the rules of the group. That being said in the last week, I've dealt with anti-vaxxers. I've dealt with lipid, cardiovascular health deniers. I've dealt with people suggesting that barbell trening is dangerous. And particularly for the back and the joints just bad under joints. And also people that said that I wasn't doing enough for the vegan community because you owe it to them. And you know, so yeah, I've been in some arguments recently. But I think the reason why I engage in less of these now is because I've been just sucked in and wasted so much time. And ultimately it doesn't matter because nobody else is reading these things. Nobody is talking at a level where you're going to understand the other person's point of view. You're going to change the opinion. And then it's just one person. One person who if they have that much time to engage with you, it's just not important. Just let them go on living their life too. Yeah. Yeah. My indifference in these matters knows no bounds. Yeah. So I am a big fan of doing no harm and helping people who want to be helped. Sure. And so I tend to not get sucked into these things or if somebody tags me in one of these stupid posts and is like thoughts. Yeah. We don't respond to those. I don't really have thoughts until we're blocked. Yeah. Right. We found out we were blocked by the functional patterns guy, which is unsurprising. Yeah. If you've blocked us on social media like your accounts trash. That's 100% correlation. A lot of this has come from just the things that I've learned about social psychology. Yeah. And stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. So I believe belief change and stuff like that. But likelihood that I'm going to actually change somebody's mind is vanishingly small. And the impact that that would have is similarly vanishingly small. So I just don't bother because I have bigger places where I could put my time efforts and generate better outcomes. So yeah. I just don't care enough to deal with these people. Yeah. It's interesting knowing all the traps psychology stuff and social psychology things. I think it does actually make us a little more amenable to change because we're like consciously trying to not be that way. Yes. And all sorts of having insight. Yeah. IMean like you're doing that thing again with the stuff. Yeah. So if you don't listen to the you are not so smart podcast, I would recommend listening to as many episodes of it as you can so that you can recognize how you're being stupid and consciously try to not be stupid. You got to see your blind on blind spots. Yeah. Sometimes you have a spouse for that. Big fan of that. Podcast. I prefer podcasts. Fine. All right. To each thorough. A. Yeah. Last question. When discussing non-modifiable things like genetics is there a percentage or way to measure just how much of your genetics are responsible for in terms of trening outcomes. Can you ever truly overcome something that is genetic? Example someone with a tendency to carry excess abdominal weight will they ever have a six pack. So is there a way for you to measure this? No. We have rough estimates of like how much of certain different trening outcomes are related to genetics. So for instance we think like strength high-perch fee outcomes like 50% weight at related outcomes higher than that. Some some people will say up to 70% but we're still trying to parse that out. But you can't measure it. Can't like take a blood test and be like actually you're at 65% yeah. So we don't know that. Even if you had a full on like genome sequencing of your own genome. So we can't really tell you. And then can you ever truly overcome something that is genetic? There are some things yes through heroic measures or ultimately a change behavioral changes that are in line with that goal. For instance losing body fat. Yeah. You could have a person who was born to overweight parents has been overweight their whole life. You know who ultimately achieves a loan of body fat to have visible six pack. And they could maintain that for the rest of their life. I could happen. It's certainly not the norm but the RPU will be high. Yeah. It could be high for a period of time. But it's a positive change. Sure. On the other hand things like a person who's got a 16 inch vertical jump who wants to turn that into a 35 inch vertical jump. You mean like you? Yeah. Yeah. It's not going to happen. But you could still lift a lot of weight. Yeah. That's true. That's right. So it just depends on some things have a little bit more ability. The greater ability to be modified. Then other things. Things like height for instance. If you want to play in the NBA and that's your outcome that you're really getting gun and for about your five foot five. You know. Unlikely to happen in the cards. You know, you could be mugsy bugs. The next, you know, the second coming. Yes. But it seems unlikely. Yeah. There are no pigneys that have ever made. And it made it to the NBA. They got a plastic door. Yeah. Yeah. On the other hand, if you're seven foot tall and between the ages of 25 and 45, you're probably in the NBA. You have a one and five chance of actively being in the NBA right. So if you know somebody's a true son, butter debt. Yeah. The only thing I would add to this is the first part of thEQuestion. Is there any way to measure it through testing? And there we go. Testing. It comes up once again. Here we go. Should you get tested? Do you want to know? And very often the answer is no. You don't want to know. So I put out some recommendations in terms of the things that we recommend prioritized for health purposes. The tests you should or shouldn't yet. Things like that. There's a really interesting paper I reviewed it for our first research review. They had to do with genetic testing. And what they did was they performed a bunch of genetic testing on these individuals in two reports of individuals. And the first cohort, they did some genetic testing related to their genes as they try and remember that the outcomes. One had to do with like their aerobic kind of predisposition for aerobic performance. And the other one, they were testing for a particular gene, the FTO gene that has something to do with satiety after a meal. So they did testing on these individuals. And what they did, the clever part of the experiment was when they delivered the results of the testing to these individuals. They randomized the results that they got to either the true result or they made up the, not the made up of the gave them the alternative. And then they did some repeat testing on these individuals. So for example, in the individuals with respect to the aerobic performing performance, gene that they tested, they were either told that they had the gene that would improve their performance or decrease their performance. And then they were randomized in terms of the results to either be told that they had the good gene that would improve your performance or the one that would decrease it. And then when they got the FTO gene tested that had to do with satiety, how full you get after a meal, they were randomized to be told. You have the version of the gene that will make you super full after a meal, make it super easy to, you know, be full and lose weight and things like that. Or to be told that they had the other version where they wouldn't have that. And in fact, it was glucagon, was the hormone I think, right? Well, they measured growling, GHas one example. And they measured GLP one and they measured growling as outcome measures of their satiety. And in fact, what they found was that the hormone measures after a standardized meal, they gave them a standardized meal and measured how full these individuals got. And the level of the satiety hormones, the fullness that they experienced, was in line with what they were told their genetics were not what their actual genes would have predicted. Super weird. One of the coolest studies I've ever seen. And suggesting that knowing learning about your genetics can influence your actual physiology in the situation. So that would lead me to, yes, in this situation, how much your genetics are responsible for in terms of trening outcomes. Can you ever truly overcome something that is genetic? If you were to go and get your genetics tested and they said, however they would determine this, your genes suggest that you will never squat more than 2.25. Your genes suggest that you will never get below 20% body fat. How much that would then influence what ultimately becomes reality for you? From a no-cibo standpoint. There is a substantial potential for harm there. I recognize there is a potential for benefit. Somehow, I guess if it tells you that you have a genetic predisposition to be superjacked, but that seems unlikely. So actually starting genetic testing. So what we'll do. You've got to submit my resignation to my medicine. No no, so you're not necessary. Testing. You send us a saliva sample and all of the results that go out is you're going to be superjacked. Super lean. Yeah, super self-efficacy. Yes, yes. I'm going to bore with that. Yeah, it's just placebo everybody. That's right. So we'll see about testing again. I caution everybody. I don't know how many more times I'm going to end up talking about this. Probably for the rest of my career. Caution people against testing that is not indicated. Because sometimes you don't want to know. Sometimes you don't want to know. Yeah, but anything is good old Leah back there. The longest time was like, I'm not a genetic outlier. I'm not a freak. And I was like, you've been to IPF worlds, the highest level competition after not really a long time of trening. I think by definition, the U.R. outlier, she goes, I'm not. I'm going to get genetic test. Prove you wrong. And there's a particular gene, a CTN3, which if you have two copies of that, means that you're like super fast-twitch. You're supposed to be the powerlifter or the sprinter, you know, that's your jam. And lo and behold, who comes back, homozygous for ACT and 3. Lealance. Maybe I do have a genetic leg up on the competition. Yeah, so are you sure? Of course you do. You're going to hear a set of back to the non-leg. She does sound like that. Yeah. Yeah. How else? There's a way to win a eye next to another way. You can talk to you for a minute. So that's fine. Yeah. That's not getting tested. What does it matter? Well, how would it change what you do? Yeah. The only thing to do is hurt you. Yeah. So we have, I recently put up a post about my top recommendations for things that matter from a health standpoint. Yeah. It came to testing. I think there are relatively few things that we recommend, and they tend to be demographic or individual specific. Yeah. So there's a resource. I primarily direct this to clinicians to our medical students who are here. Go to the AHRQ agency for healthcare research and quality. They're EPSS tool, electronic preventive services, something, selectors and something like that. And you can put in your patients' demographics. Their sex age. They're smokinGHistory. And whether they're sexually active or not. And that can tell you the screening recommendations that you would recommend for the individual. Greated by level of evidence according to the USPSTF, US preventive services task force, level A, level B, level C, whatever. Based on how confident we are from the evidence that this is a screening test that you should perform, whether there's evidence against it, or whether it's indeterminate. It was relatively few. The things that we can say for the overwhelming majority of people is a blood pressure check. Yeah. Right. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. Waste of the way. You should serve an example, be prepared tonight for the financial success list before going. food allergy testing, generally don't recommend it. What about vitamin deficiency testing? Nope. Also don't recommend it. What about reverse T3? Don't get that done. Ever. What about my hormones? That's not a thing. Oh, what about gut health testing? Also not a thing. Okay, I think we've rented them. Yeah. So there. So if an individual, again, to echo what I described in the testosterone lecture, if there are signs, symptoms, reasons to pursue certain testing as a diagnostic process, then sure that makes a ton of sense. I would have tests all the time because I admit patients in the hospital who have signs, symptoms, or complaints that would suggest a certain pathology that I need to be looking for to diagnose. But a lot of people say, oh, I just want to get all the tests done just to know where I'm at. Right? I just want to get a total of no. Yeah, I just want to know. I just want to know. I just want to just do all the things for me. And like, you probably don't actually want that. Yeah. Right. It could lead to a whole bunch of unnecessary subsequent testing, subsequent procedures, subsequent interventions, or psychological harm that you're best off, just live your life. Just right? It's a nice way. It's a nice way that would. You don't need to know. We did it. Did it. Thank you guys so much for coming out. I'm going to great.

=== FILE: 2020 San Diego Q⧸A  (Full Version) [dZ6Va7dKzNA].txt ===

Welcome back to Barbell Medicine YouTube channel, where we bring modern medicine this is Dr. Jordan Fagmum, Dr. Austin Barraki. He's the second most handsome doctor in the world. We're in San Diego. Thank you guys so much for joining us. This is a question and answer session. Thank you so much for coming. If you have to leave, we understand. And if we don't get to your question, you should post it on the forum. It's at forum.barbellmedicine.com. Also, if it doesn't get approved there because it is moderated for him, you should first try Austin, his DMs, direct messages, he's very responsive. He doesn't respond and I would move to Tom, Tom's also, again, great with DMs. Then slide into Lee as DMs. And if none of those work, then we recommend following a different fitness outlet for your questions. Good. We just can't be bothered. So, we're going to get into thesEQuestions. Question number one, if an elderly individual who is at a healthy weight, but under a muscle starts resistance trening, should they be eating a caloric surplus to build muscle, given that they are eating enough protein? Uh, well, okay. This is a good question. In general, I don't know that I recommend anybody for weight gain, unless they want to. So, if their personal preference is, I'd like to gain weight for whatever reason. Either strength is the most important thing to them, and they have a, they have their room to grow. That's fine. If they want to gain more muscle mass, just for their own accord, that's fine. But just for like reducing the potential of bad health outcomes from happening, you can do that without gaining a substantial amount of body weight. And a person new to resistance trening is has a high likelihood of building a lot of lean body mass without increasing their body weight. We see that all the time in individuals with obesity. They simultaneously reduce their waste or comfort and body fat, while increasing their lean body mass. And in particular, I don't know that gaining a bunch of weight at an elderly age is likely to be a great idea. Just because if they're already in a healthy, healthy weight as is kind of a qualifier in thEQuestion, IMean, I see a lot of elderly folks who are extremely underweight. It's not often that I see individuals who are like have made it into their 80s with morbid obesity. Oftentimes they don't, they get kind of selected out a little bit earlier than that for through various mechanisms, things that we've talked about this weekend, the medical conditions that can arise. So oftentimes the people who make it that far tend to be pretty thin and frail on the other end of this spectrum. And those situations, then getting adequate nutrition and putting them into a calorie surplus if we can, does become a priority. But if somebody is already at a healthy weight, then I would just lean on getting them to tren rather than worrying about getting them in a calorie surplus. But you know what the internet's going to say. What? Don't you know that in elderly population that class 1,0,B3 has the lowest all-cosm mortality rates? How do you explain that? ThEQuestion is saying that they're at a healthy weight. So then I would ask how we're defininGHealthy weight here. Sure. Well, what I'm getting is that. It's that explanation. It basically ignores, again, a few things that Dr. Baraki said. So individuals who tend to carry a lot of excess adipose tissue tend to be a lot of tissue tend to get filtered out when we get to that elderly population. So they tend to not make it that far. And those who do, then obviously there's a survivor bias there. And in addition, once you become elderly having a low BMI, so like in normal or particularly underweight represents either chronic illness or increase in frailty. And so both of those things, portend bad outcomes. We wouldn't necessarily want somebody who's got a normal BMI or slightly in the lower realms of the overweight BMI range to necessarily say, I got to get my BMI to over 30 because that's going to reduce my risk of premature mortality or reduce disease burden. Yep. All right. See, if we took on the internet. There you go. Boom. What is something you wish you better prepared for during medical school? Like, are we restricting this to just academic topics? Open-ended. I don't know. Like, potentially interesting. Yeah. I actually had a pretty unique path into medical school. It's like I was the worst applicant with respect to getting into med school. So when I applied the average GPA for people getting in, to med school is 3.6. Average Mcat was 31. Right. I had a 2.9 GPA and a 31 on the Mcat. So acceptable Mcat terrible GPA. So I went to, I got a master's degree, right, to shore up my resume. The problem is most medical schools don't care about your masters because they don't know how rigorous your master's was unless they have a similar program at their school. So in any event, I'd just scramble just to get into a medical school. I almost didn't make it. In any event, what I would, what I learned during my master's program was how to study. So for me, I learned that like space repetition learning. So again, just seeing stuff on a regular basis, things that I was more familiar with, seeing less often, but still reminding myself, seeing stuff I was less familiar with, more frequently, and asking myself questions about those topics really helped me learn this stuff. But I learned how to study during my master's program. A lot of my colleagues that I went to medical school with had problems learning because they had taken that leap from undergrad to medical school yet. And so they spent a lot of excess time trying to figure out how to study. So if I was making a recommendation for people like what you need to do before medical school, my only recommendation to you is to learn how to study for yourself. You don't need to read all these medical textbooks or like, you know, try to take these classes and undergrad so you get a leg up because it's not a leg up. It's totally different. But you need to learn how to study. Take a developed good study habits. So for me, personally, what would I have done differently? I would have actually gone to Norfolk and picked out a living situation that was a little bit better. So I looked in that retirement home thing, just the leg towers. Which was fine because it was real quiet, you know, because retirement. But the problem was they whenever they got rain, the whole parking lot just completely flooded. So I just got in this new car, right? I felt like I was on top of the world. And we got this Norreaster, which I don't know what that is because I'm from the Midwest. We have tornadoes and floods, but when they say noreaster, I'm like, I don't know Easter egg and whatever. It's like the, it's a party. I parked my car in this, you know, surprisingly barren parking lot. Nobody was around me. I was like, oh man, I got a sweet parking spot and everybody's, there's nobody's here. Interesting. There was no standing water in the parking lot, but it was raining. And then I come out two and a half hours later, the water, no joke is up to my side view mirror. Yeah. So then I'm totally in the car. So I wish that I would have known one like, let's go not live in retirement homes. I've been living in my social, you know, sort of circle for a year. And then I also would have like not apart to my car there on that particular day. Regrets. Regrets. Yeah. Yes. I have them. Yeah. My trajectory into medical school was very different. And I did know how to study before I got there. And that set me up for a different experience along the way. I'll take a different spin on this, I guess. Better prepared for during medical school with something I wish I had learned. Maybe a bit more effectively over the course of medical school is a lot of the messages that we deliver to you guys this weekend. Particularly a lot of the stuff about the behavior change and how to talk to people and how to make it happen and how important of a skill it is to be able to have these difficult conversations. Because, you know, I teach residents and medical students on a daily basis on in the hospital. When I do feedback with them at the end of their rotations, you know, I always tell them like anybody can teach you the medicine here. Anybody can teach you how the kidneys work or how the heart pumps and stuff like that. But I think far fewer people are going to teach you how to have these conversations with people, how to have these, you know, illicit the information you need, how to provide the reassurance that people who are in a sick, you know, frail vulnerable situation need to hear. And so that's something that I had to learn partially. IMean, we got some exposure to that kind of stuff. But I in retrospect know that it was not as much as we actually need. And I think that the emphasis is obviously you have to learn a lot of detail physiology by chemistry a lot of stuff like that. But I think the degree to which being able to have these like social skills is important as being a doctor at the bedside with a patient. I don't think it receives as much emphasis as it deserves in pre-clinical education. And so that's something I wish I would have gotten more of, I think. Yeah, to their credit, they did do a substantial amount of pain. Yeah, we're just too stupid. Yeah, I just think it needs to be even more. Yeah, we're just too dumb. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. As long as we agree that we're dumb. Everybody stupid. Alright, including us. Question number three, the notes refer to more than two standard drinks of alcohol as a risk factor for high blood pressure. That's true. Could you please clarify what you mean by a standard drink? Yes, this is, there's a wide variety between different countries. Do you actually printed this out? So effectively in the US, we're talking like 14 grams of pure alcohol, which I know that you guys are, carrying your scales when you have to the bar. Yeah, we're carrying measuring grams. Yeah, but in other countries, it's 10 grams. US and general, we talk about this like one beer, 12 ounce beer, or one glass of wine, but again, how big is your glass? So that's problematic. It's five ounces on average and then one and a half ounces of like a hard alcohol. That's a standard drink in the United States. Assuming it's 80 proof. Because you'll have more grams of alcohol on a higher proof spirit. So like, if I, this is about 60 proof, I think. All right. That's, or no, not 60%. That's 10%. Yeah, so it's 120. Yeah. So more grams of alcohol. Are you sure math isn't the thing that you wanted to learn to learn. Yes. All right. Suggestions for isometric core work. I've seen Planks mentioned in your content, but try steps seem to be the limit on those for me. Oh, yeah, I see. So if you're having, so the reason, I guess I'll start over. The reason why I prefer isometric sort of ab direct ab trening. If you're going to do it for strength trening purposes, that's really their kind of role in the big for that we tend to get asked. The most questions about also this is barbell medicine, not like functional fitness medicine. Kettle bill medicine is also taken. So like we have to like form our niche somewhere. So it's barbell medicine. So in general, the role of the ab's during those movement tend to be isometric. So I like Planks. I like pal off presses. I like ab wheel roll out. See there from kneeling ab wheel roll out. So if you can do them from your toes, that's cool. I also like sort of v-sit progressions. L-l-sit progressions are usually beyond most individuals. But so I think most folks can do Planks. You can't do those. Then the pal off presses tend to be pretty pretty good. And I know it's about a home sitting on a couch saying Planks. I don't need a plank. Doesn't do anything. I'll just low bar backs, squat my way to top tier high level, a dominal strength. Well guy at home. The recent research on this suggests that a plank in a six Rm backsquat have about the same amount of abdominal activation. Which means that a plank is like pretty good because it's not the same level of fatigue that you get from a six Rm squat. Right, six at RP-10 would be substantially fatiguing set for most individuals compared to just doing a 30 second plank. So I'm not saying that you should do Planks instead of squats, but in addition to, be fine. The other hand, if you said, I don't want to do any additional direct ab trening because I find it boring and whatever. That's fine too. Who would say something? Austin does a yearly GP-P session. He's just living off previously developed cardiovascular fitness from swimming. And at some point he'll do it. It'll be by yearly and then you'll just keep titan-titrening it up. Yeah, IMean you're free To edit this out, but yeah, I don't do ab work. Yeah. I'm fine with this, buddy. Yeah, that's fine. I think though if people are asking about it, I'm happy with you doing more physical activity and I want it to be the correct fatigue stimulus to fatigue ratios. That's fair. I... Is non-HDL cholesterol in the 20 to 40 range still considered okay for someone on statins? Yep. That's a question. No. So that assuming that they may have 20 to 40 milligrams per desoliter, I'm wondering if thEQuestion is phrase this way because that's a very low level for a non-HDL cholesterol level. And so a lot of times there's concerns about can these numbers get too low? There's a lot of fear out there about pushing these numbers too low being associated with cognitive issues. That's been studied and hasn't really been shown convincingly, theoretically about risk for hemorrhage extroke. Also been studied not really shown super convincingly. And then a number of other outcomes such that now the argument or the idea has been that in general lower is better. And we don't see a threshold where pushing these not these blood lipid numbers, particularly the blood lipids that tend to be associated with cardiovascular disease, pushing them lower increases risk. So in general, lower is fine that doesn't necessarily concern me. What I would say though is that if somebody's levels are that low, my question is why are they on the medication? Because if they're on the medicine because they've had a bunch of heart attacks before, then I'm like, cool, okay, that makes sense. I want to push them as low as possible because they're super high risk because they've had heart attacks and strokes before. If they've never had heart attack or a stroke before and they're on one of these medicines for what we call primary prevention, preventing one of these if we're reducing the risk of these events, I should say, when they've never had one before. Maybe they'd already be below that target threshold without the medicine in which case I'm wondering do they actually need it. So I'm fine with pushing these numbers that low in somebody who's very high risk. If they're not super super high risk, then like, they're below 130 on that non HDL, then I'm not worried about it unless they have other reasons to have really high risk. Like they're smokers, diabetics, high blood pressure, things like that that would alter my decision making. How much did a Pfizer pay you to say that? Just the shielding for statins, right? Yeah, right. Speaking of statins and cholesterol and other other fun stuff, red meat, chicken, fish, are all frequently cited when discussing diet. What about pork or other poultry? Yeah, what about them? This is a kosher establishment, okay? We don't talk about pork. No. So in general, with respect to red meat, so we're talking about pork, veal, obviously beef. There's actually a pretty expanded topic that includes our expanded category that all includes those foods and others if for red meat. With respect to chicken, fish, other lean protein sources, I'm cool with all of them. There's not really a lean protein source that I'm not like willing to give you the thumbs up on. My, the caveat that I'll give you is that for red meat, which again includes this sort of veal, beef, pork, awful, is it awful? Well, I am sure. Yeah, whatever. All that stuff, I would recommend limiting that to three times per week, just based on the current guidelines for red meat intake. And we discussed that thoroughly in the article, the signs of red meat intake. So effectively, it'd be difficult to eat more red meat than that, more often. And also stay out of that 10% of total daily calories from saturated fat, recommendation that we think is actually important. Okay, and if you want more information on that, read the signs of red meat intake article, we go into the, into the weeds there on that stuff. Anything else? I don't think so. What's your favorite protein? It's favorite. IMean, there's only one answer. What do you want me to say chicken? No, that's for all the answer. I'd stay. Yeah. Yeah. So mine's bacon. Okay. This is not a coach. What is the mechanism for the inflammatory process and autoimmune diseases contributing to muscle protein breakdown? Do you have references? Always. Would reducing inflammation first have increased the metabolic impact? Reducing inflammation before wood? Not sure about the last part. ThEQuestion has to do with the inflammation, the real inflammation, as I said, that's present in autoimmune conditions. Why does it contribute to muscle protein breakdown? What is the mechanism for muscle protein? So, what do you want to do with the muscle protein? The mechanism has to do with these chemicals that are called inflammatory cytokines. It's a fancy word describing inflammatory signaling molecules that circulate around in the blood. They're at elevated levels and almost all of these inflammatory conditions, both autoimmune disease as well as cancer as well as a bunch of other things. And at the end stage of this inflammatory process, you can get to this point that where somebody might be called cachecca. If you have a cachecca, you have a lot of body mass and you have lost a lot of fat mass. And I see that frequently in patients who have been chronically very ill from one of these conditions. They're just skin and bones, no lean body mass and no fat mass. Super high risk situation. Those are patients again who IMentioned having that low lean body mass low functional status. Even if they might not even be deemed eligible for treatment because they're too weak and frail and risk for having really bad outcomes. The treatment is more likely to kill you sooner than the condition itself. So it's these circulating inflammatory molecules. One example for the biochemistry folks is like a TNF alpha and some of the interlucin molecules. As far as references, I give a lecture on this topic signaling, molecular signaling with muscle protein synthesis and breakdown. In the past, one of the best papers that I referenced on it was called molecular networks in skeletal muscle plasticity. So it's written by Hopler and his colleagues, or you can just Google anything about Kixia and inflammation. CACHEXIA and that's an inflammation and you'll basically go down that rabbit hole of why chronic systemic inflammation can contribute to muscle protein breakdown. You can see how these signaling molecules directly block anabolic signaling and they contribute to atrophy. So they block building and they promote atrophy which is bad news, obviously. So and treating the inflammation can improve antibiotics sensitivity. So if you get the inflammation under control, they're more likely to respond to antibiotics, stimuli trening exercise nutrition. Yeah, that's what's getting with the last part. So like reducing inflammation will that improve antibiotic impact. Yeah, treating the condition. Yes, and these actual inflammatory cases. Yes, that typically need medical management. Yes, that will improve things like muscle mass gain and muscle protein synthesis. On the other hand, lowering your, you know, inflammation when you don't have one of these medical conditions from a little to very little does nothing. Yeah. That's twad. What strategies do you use in your approach to correcting misinformation or misunderstanding in various settings? Uh, wow. Okay. So what strategy will start with the first one and then, yeah, so other than holding barbell medicine seminars and all the information that is already being disseminated through barbell medicine of course. Let me tell you a story. So stories about my life. Um, I previously, particularly early on at barbell medicine, I thought it was my job to police the internet to make sure that no BS was being written anywhere that could potentially harm anyone and I needed to correct everybody. Uh, that's a fool's errand because not only can you never get anywhere close to all of it, you're not actually changing anyone's mind. Um, I still do this from time to time because I'm not very smart. I told you my GPA earlier, so you guys should be well aware of like my ability to like learn things so not high. So I still do this at times because either I am a glutton for punishment or just again, not smart and learn a lesson. But one thing I realize is that more productive use of my time our time is to actually just create more information. So effectively like if somebody's saying something silly on the internet, like I can't stop them from saying that and me directly challenging them is unlikely to work out in my favor. But if I write an article about that particular thing or make like a long, you know, series like a tutorial or like a Instagram story, you know, rant thing. That'll reach way more people help more people, whatever. I particularly like writing stuff or making a YouTube video or whatever stuff that doesn't disappear as long lasting content. That tends to be good because a lot of people are going to see it. Then it's there. I can refer people to it and then allows me to really flesh out my ideas. The cool thing is if I can find some common ground with that person who I originally disagreed with on occasion, you can sort of strike up a conversation based on that. It's rare, but it has happened before where I end up agreeing with people that I've initially been like, Oh no, this makes me angry because you're wrong. But it's possible. So my recommendation is for like how to go about this is not correcting people that writing reflects a can occur. I do think in professional settings, it's a little different because usually if you come in guns ablasing with a bunch of evidence that you're willing to just give people and say, Hey, if you have some time, check this out, read it, particularly if they're guidelines or like, you know, all of the things that you're going to do is to make sure that you're not going to be able to do that. So I think you can do that in professional settings, but in more social settings or like on social media or amongst friends, I probably just wouldn't do that and I'd focus on putting that creating original content that would be my take. Yeah, I agree. The context matters a whole lot here. And so within the public sphere, the social media sphere, things like that, I'll go ahead and say, I'm smarter than Jordan. And then I just don't do it. I don't care to engage with people or argue people with people or try to go out and correct misinformation. I'm happy to just hear my recommendations. Here's why these are my recommendations and you people out there are free To take them or not. And that's kind of your decision. And so I actually take a similar approach with with patients even because sometimes clinicians, doctors, healthcare professionals, can get really, really, really overly invested in like paternalistic and like feel excessively responsible for this stuff and assuming that I have discussed with somebody and feel like I've gotten them adequately educated. And I can and I know that I've gotten through to them and my message is clear and been understood. And if they choose to pursue a different route with things, then fine, I feel like I've done my job. Whereas sometimes people might take offense to it. If somebody doesn't follow their advice or they might really beat themselves up or get to, you don't work up about it. I see this more often when patients say they want to leave the hospital during the course of my treatment. And I go and educate them about why I'm recommending maybe they stay. And if I have more work to do or whatever. And if I say no, I'm leaving then okay, you know, I can't really beat myself up too much about that. And in social media, I ignore all of that stuff. I definitely don't go down the rabbit hole of arguing with people or I get tagged every day in things. People like here, look at this. What are your thoughts? I don't have thoughts. My thoughts have been expressed elsewhere and you can again take my recommendations or not. And that's fine. One day we're all gonna die and things are gonna be just fine. So that doesn't bother me. In the professional setting, among other doctors, among other clinicians, I know or at least I like to think that I'm among peers who are going to be more receptive to evidence. And so if you've watched any of my lectures that I've given to other doctors on sarcopenia or the cancer lecture or really any of my talks that I've given. My slides are just littered with references and graphs and data and things like that. And that's something that I, it's, it's, it's obviously important for how we practice, but it's also a strategy to actually convince people that hey, I actually, you know, know what I'm talking about here. And here's my justification for my belief, whereas in society, for a lot of this stuff, you don't necessarily need to have a really strong justification for your belief. You can just have beliefs. So if you listen to our last rehab podcast from Reno's Q&A, Michael Ray talked about this YouTube channel. That we all, that me and him, he introduced me to called a street epistemology. And it's a guy who is actually in San Antonio, and he goes around and he'll meet somebody and he'll talk to him a little bit and he'll elicities like tries to get them to make a claim about something that they believe. And then very gently kindly he'll start to delve into this belief and ask them just kind of pointed questions to try to get at the heart of why they believe what they believe. What they believe often times it ends up going down until like religion and things like that. But he's very good at it in terms of getting to why people believe what they believe, but overwhelmingly what he ends up showing is, people can't justify, oftentimes what they believe. They just make sure it up and they just believe what they believe. And we're very, we're very stupid creatures. And so like Jordan said, it's a fool's air into go out and try to save the world and correct everything that's wrong out there. So I just don't do it and wouldn't recommend it. Have you been in an argument in the last week? Have you been in an argument in the last week? No. I've been into you been into. Well, to be fair, it's not my fault. One of them was like a scheduled podcast on like injury and technique. Sure. Yes. So that I did that to myself. Yes. The second one, this guy was making the claim that because doctors don't receive like advanced nutrition trening during medical school, that they should not be counseling patients on dietary changes. To which my reply is, why do you need to know all these intricacies to do that behavioral change counseling? You don't. Just like you don't need to be a programming whiz or like a high level coach in order to help people in, you know, achieve these physical activity guidelines, minimums. You don't need that. You need to be experienced to know what to do for trouble shooting for like performance, right? Or have a big toolbox for cueing people in real time. Sure. But to the extent that you need this huge fund of knowledge just to like be able to draw up some initial recommendations, like I don't think you need that. Or to act, I would prefer that in fact, your tool kit was more robustly stocked with behavioral counseling techniques. Yeah, IMean, most of you guys who are here this weekend, you probably are now feeling a little bit more comfortable at what the basic outlines of what we would recommend as a healthy dietary pattern might look like, right? So energy intake and protein, fiber, how the fat distribution looks like and then within that there's tons of latitude. So cool. You don't need to have hyper advanced trening to be able to counsel somebody on some of that stuff. But having those conversations is the hard part. Under what clinical cases are you using the advanced lipid testing? Does it change counseling efficacy outcomes in the setting of mild to moderate elevated non HDL to change lifestyle behaviors? Let's back up. What is advanced lipid testing? So the basic lipid panel as I discussed in the lecture involved measuring total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL cholesterol, and then off of that is oftentimes calculated in an LDL cholesterol level. And then the best metric again off of that is to take the total subtract HDL get a non HDL cholesterol level. That's the best metric off of the standard lipid panel. Non advanced. What is what are some examples of advanced lipid testing? So advanced lipid testing would involve things like measuring what we call an apob level. And apolipoproutine B level would be one example. Others would be direct particle measurement. So measuring not the cholesterol on the particles, but the particles themselves. So LDL particle concentration, for example, the lipoprofile, the NMR, things like that are advanced lipid testing. So the main situation where I'd order one of these advanced tests is if I have somebody who I have been treating them, I have their blood lipids where I want them to be. And yet they're still having cardiovascular problems. For example, somebody's blood lipids look great and they're coming in and they're still having they just had a new heart attack. Well, we got a problem, right? Because I have you where I think I would like you to be, but you just had another event in a heart attack or a stroke or something like that. So there are sometimes situations where the standard lipid test might not tell us all the information we need. So somebody who's having these sorts of events, heart attacks or strokes with blood lipids, otherwise look good. Then I'd probably measure an apob level, measure a lipoproutine A level, and I'd start treating things more aggressively from there to get their risk down further. Otherwise I don't really measure them. And does having all this information like chain child patients respond to your counseling techniques? No. Okay. Yes. Wouldn't check it otherwise. Yeah. More information is not always better. Any tips or techniques you find generally helpful for increasing motivation or discipline in trening. IMean, it's a tough one. It is a tough one, but I think I go back to some of the stuff we talked about during the behavioral change lecture. And then additionally we kept sprinkling in like, I think you should enjoy this. So I think you should enjoy not only the trening you're doing, but the components of that, but the actual process. So like your goal oriented trening. So I think if somebody's like really having a hard time like sticking to it, I'd wonder like, do you like what you're doing? Is this enjoyable for you? And if it is, great. So what's holding you back? Because there are some things that come up that people generally respond to in a way where they might need some additional counseling. So like for instance, if somebody misses day one of the workout, I've seen it a lot of times where people will just not work out. The rest of the week, they're like, IMissed my first day, this week's off. I'm just going to repeat this week next week. They say it's like all they're not in for nominant. And it's like, no, don't do that. Or like, or like, no, but if I don't work out today, then tomorrow's my scheduled rest day. Then I'll have to work out tomorrow and then have to work out the back to back. And that's like bad because I need to perform optimally on all these days. And it's like, no, just put all the workouts together. We have a literally a litany of different questions on our form that's like, hey, I'm leaving town for the week. On Thursday, on Friday, and I have four workouts to do this week, what new? And it's like workout Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, going your vacation. And I don't say that like to be dismissive, right? But it's like the actual acute performance during your workout doesn't really matter as much as you get into the total Trening. So that's just one common thing that I see all the time and people are struggling for time resources in order to tren. And I think working around that can help people stay adherent to the trening program provided they like with the trening program. But if someone hates what they're doing, right, or is fearful of what they're doing, that's problematic. The third thing that I find really important is the social aspect here. So if people are doing this by themselves, so like they have a home gym and they're the only one in their house that uses the home gym. Or if not of their family members workout, even immediate or extended. None of their friends workout. They're just effectively leaving their social circle. They're saying, I'm going to leave my family, I got to leave all my friends. And I go to the gym where I don't know the many people. That's a hard sell for a lot of people. And so I think to the degree you can leverage social support, you can make things more effect. A second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second, a second. And then make it enjoyable, those are my big sort of things that you can practically apply to the programming and the social sport network to get people to adhere to trening. But as far as actually finding motivation and people, that's stuff. You got to give them the old Gipper talk. What do you want to do with this? What do you want to get out of this? Where do you want to be in three months, six months, 12 months? How do your actions on a daily basis lead you closer to or further away from that particular goal? Something. Yeah. Yeah. I don't love the... I don't love centering this discussion around the idea of discipline at all. We've talked in some of our previous Q&A's and on podcasts and stuff like that that, you know, in the past decade, we can count how many workouts we've missed on one hand or less. Even last week when I was laid up with the flu, I still went out and did my deadlift day on Tuesday. And like I said, I almost passed out trying to pull 405 and people might say, you're an idiot, you're crazy for trying to go do that. And I was like, well, I think back to that day, right? I'm having like coughing and chills and sweats on the couch and I feel like shit. Why did I go out to the gym and try to do that? Was it because I'm just like a total badass and more disciplined than anyone else on earth? No, it's because I actually enjoy trening. And I got up that day and I was like, well, today would normally be a trening day and I like trening. So it would make me feel better. Maybe if I went out and tried to do something. Now, I probably tried to pull more than I was ready for on that day, right? But I did it because I actually enjoy trening. If I'd loathed trening, if I hated trening and I felt that sick, that's like double barrier to try to go out and do that thing. Right? So I look back to why have we not missed a trening session in the past decade, basically, or a couple, right? Because we actually enjoy trening. And to the extent that maybe we've both definitely like skipped out on certain like, say, social engagements or something. Because we, because trening was more important to us, it's because we enjoy doing that. Right? So the enjoyment piece, I think, is under-emphasized underrated. It's not that, you know, we're just like, better than you because we can do this thing that we hate. Right? Even when we don't want to, hey, we actually enjoy doing this thing. So I think finding that like why you're doing this and trying to play that up is a bigger piece there than just saying, you're not disciplined enough to do this, right? You're a bad person because you didn't do this session because you're not just pulling enough, I don't think that that's a good way to view human behavior really in general. Also Rick Ross helps always. Instant PR. Instant PR, yes. All right. Let's see if butter is to be limited in a healthy diet. Where do you rank other dairy products with high fat content? Cream, certain cheeses, certain brands of whole milk with 4% to 5% milk fat? Yeah. So Austin, I know you mentioned this. Um, just, and we got, we get a lot of questions about this. We got one recently in our group. Yeah. So, sorry. So just to go back to the kind of beginning of this, the overall recommendation with respect to saturated fat intake is to keep it less than 10% of total daily calories. In particular, the main focus there is going to be saturated fat from red meat. It appears that dairy, like saturated fat from dairy does not appear to have the same deleterious effect that red meat does. In fact, there may actually be some like beneficial effects from dairy consumption. That being said, the recommendation still is less than 10% of your total daily calories from saturated fat. To the degree you can fit butter in their cream, milk with 5% fat, which probably tastes great. It's probably, but you have to probably drink it with a spoon. You can't even, like, you have to like, it's fine. But I think, again, if we start with the 10% saturated fat from total of total daily calories, that's like the initial start. And then most of that, the biggest concern there is red meat intake. Yeah, I think that, you know, when I talk about dairy with people, it tends to be limited to non butter dairy sources. There's actually some evidence that there are some like, there's this concept that we didn't even touch on because again, everything is way morecomplicated. And even what we delivered to you guys this weekend was like, market-ly simplified. There's this concept called the food matrix. And it has to do with kind of like the chemical structure of the food and the proteins and other molecules that are involved in it. And those can alter the physiological effects of a given food. And so in the course of processing a dairy type food into butter, for example, it actually removes some factors that end up ultimately being quite protective. And so when I'm talking about dairy, I tend to limit it to non butter dairy sources. And so saturated fats from non butter dairy sources, I tend to actually not sweat that much. But the processing that ends up producing butter out of it tends to remove a lot of these protective factors that result in butter being somewhat being more deleterious and more harmful from bloodlipid cardiovascular risk standpoint. So I tend to not sweat the non buttered dairy sources. There's saturated fat from those sources. Very much. Do you put butter in your coffee? Never, whatever do that. Do you put coconut oil in your coffee? That sounds awful. Do you brush your teeth with coconut oil? Jordan said, boy, anytime I see that in a question, I just like, I probably didn't say that. Yeah, probably. Here we are. Jordan said during the seminar that enjoyment and exercise has the biggest impact on adherence. Oh, that's true. I did say that. Coming back to lifting after a long layoff, I found it difficult to find enjoyment with weights that are so far below when I used to be able to do. Any suggestions or resources on how to start enjoying trening again? I don't have any resources on this. It'd be great if we had a book. It was like enjoying trening. Like, just like a whole book and like how to make starting enjoyment. Yeah, starting starting, starting pleasure. You know, just, yes. The lifting weights is very pleasurable. Yeah, that's gross. So this is a... Yeah, startinGHedonism. StartinGHedonism. Yeah, a way to use my weights too. Yeah. All right. I actually do have a strategy for this because this has happened to me. I did cross it for like eight months. Yeah, I experimented with the dark, dark arts. And I lost a substantial amount of weight in a substantial amount of strength. I'm not sure those two things were related because I wasn't really lifting weights during that time. I was doing a bunch of Olympic lifts. And it just, I wasn't squatting, benching or deadlifting. And yeah, I'm a weight went down as well. So when I came back, I remember I squatted. I used Leah's belt. This is how like... Yeah, kick kick. Yes. Yes. This is how... This is how like, kick kick kick I was. That was a hundred... I remember I came back from Australia. And I was 84 kilos, 85 kilos, which is like all of 185 pounds or something like that. And I usually as belt and I squatted 180 kilos, which is 396 for a hard triple, a hard triple. To be clear, I've benched that before for a triple. So like, things were bad. And I was like, uh... What? So I'd recently decided to likEQuit doing CrossFit because I didn't like it. And then, yeah, so enjoyment was low. And I was like, I was going back to powerlifting, so I love that. And then I did powerlifting for one day. And I was like, nooo, where is all my strength? Um, so the strategy that I used... On the exercises that I had a lot of history with, so squat bench deadlift. I changed the rep range to things I didn't have experience with. So for example, I'd never really done squats or bench or deadlift for sets of eight and ten. I stuck, I stuck to mostly those. And I picked different exercise variations that I had very little experience with. And previously, so that I didn't have this like historical like performance, uh, uh, barometer that I kept going up against. Um, and so I did that. And honestly, I remember it was like six to eight weeks after I came back. I was within about 10% of my normal strength levels. And so I was happy again and could tren like relatively regularly. Benefits of this are kind of twofold. One, you don't hate yourself every time you go to the gym and think, what was me? This is the worst I've ever performed in my whole life. And then benefit number two is that your sort of slow, gradually retrening yourself to do a different thing. So remember, I'd been doing CrossFit for eight months. I was not squatting, benching and deadlifting like I was during my normal powerlifting trening. Had I just switched back to powerlifting with no sort of bridge in between. That could have potentially been problematic for me. I've never had this sort of on ramp where I was able to sort of get back to the normal trening. And so that worked out pretty well for me. So generally that's how I recommend folks do that. If they have a specific goal that's different than their normal that we've been trening for for a while. And then they want to go back to a previous type of trening. I put program this like GPP related bridge where the rep ranges are different. The exercise selections different. So they don't have this like, again, historical thing that they'recomparing themselves against each single time. You can do that a lot of different ways. You can do that with rep ranges. You can do it with adding chains or bands or different barbells or different sort of range of motion or tempo. There's a whole different things. A lot of different things you can use. I just actually dealt with this very scenario although not entirely due to a lift off. I had a patient of mine who I have been working with for a little while who was recently diagnosed with cancer. And specifically he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. And one of the standard treatments for prostate cancer is what's called Androgen deprivation therapy where you basically get put on testosterone blockers. You can think of it like that. You get like chemically castrated basically to prevent androgen stimulating the prostate cancer from growing anymore. So we're intentionally makinGHim hypogonaddle. And he was observing that his performance was going down in the gym. When you're truly hypogonaddle, then sure we would expect that your performance is going to be altered with that. And he was having some distress over this because he pulled 500 at Nationals last year. And now he's like I'm seeing my numbers start to change. And so what should I do? I'm not really loving trening when now that I'm weaker. And that's just said, we need to change the metrics of performance here. We need to pick some different exercises, right? Rather than a competition squat and a competition deadlift than a pause bench press. We need to pick some other things that you haven't done before. Give you some new opportunities to PR, right? So now that if you're going to be doing pause squats and deficit deadlifts and stuff like that, every time you tren is going to be a PR. And so we change the strategy and he's now fully on board with that idea and trening with some different things. So again, same deal so that he doesn't have this constant prior performance to compare himself to. So that's what we did with him. So effectively the same thing, just do different things. And you'll have less of a metric of comparison. Yeah, just change your goalposts. Boom. All right. Two cool workers were discussing their supposed back problems together. Both were told by their doctors that they have permanent life altering conditions with their backs. These sedentary office workers are convinced that they are disabled, handicapped, parking spots and all. However, they're visibly fine as they get around the office with no issues. Without them asking for my help, how can I address this without scarring or an oscarine or insulting them if it all possible? In general, they are stubborn just like the rest of us. I don't think there's anything you can do to be frank. Well, I'm Jordan, but to be frank. I don't think there's anything you can do. And the doctors right, they have permanent life altering conditions in their backs. Just like all of us do having a back, having a back. Yeah. Yeah. And things change over time. You know, I don't I'm not sure the medical legal process that you have to go through to get a handicapped parking spot. You need to get a doctor to sign your form. Right, correct. So that's probably probably there. And you know, maybe this is all just a toy for the handicapped sign. You know, maybe they go swing dancing every Friday night. You don't know. But the point is, you're asking, how can you get somebody to change their behavior without being able to engage them and then go through the rest of those steps. So focusing, evoking and then planning together. You guys don't have that relationship. You have an established it. So you can't. The simple answer is you can't. And I don't mean that to say you shouldn't even try and it's not worth trying. Everything's meaningless. We're all going to eventually re-enter the carbon cycle. Although that's true. I think that because you can't establish any sort of relationship with the person that you probably best suited by directing your efforts towards other things. Yeah. Yeah. I would say two things here. I would say number one. I would caution you against making assumptions about what's actually going on with this person. It may seem like they're getting, you know, it says they're visibly fine as they get around the office, but just making assumptions is generally problematic. So you don't actually know what's going on with them. What their history is what they actually have going on. But number two, you know, we know that actually one of the big predictors of long-term disability from Backpain is actually the potential for some sort of positive gain like monetary compensation, for example. I've dealt with this before when working in the military system or in the VA system, for example, where getting your level of disability upgraded can result in higher levels of monetary compensation or other sorts of like secondary benefits. And that is not my favorite way of a system being set up because it incentivizes disability, basically, right? There are benefits to being disabled so that rather than there being benefits are incentivizing people to improve and return to their normal function. So you're up against a really tough situation here and kind of like we were talking about earlier as far as addressing this information. I think you're best spending that time and effort not doing that, not really addressing that and letting that person live their life. And if they approach you and say, man, I see what you're doing in the gym and living your life and I'm interested in that, then there you go. Your foot has been firmly put in the door and you can you can start to have that conversation. But otherwise, I probably wouldn't go out of my way. Sometimes we have to we all have to accept that we can't save the world and that's just kind of the way it is. What's that phrase? It's like, it's not the live-life love, but it's like, please grant me this opportunity to accept the things that I don't know. It's like, it's like, it's right after live-life love. It's like the second. Yeah, basically, you know, focusing on the things that you can control and letting go of the things you can. One of these stoic philosophy things. Yes, sure. Sure, I'm going to get that tattooed on my ankle. All right. All right. Last question. Based on the nutrition lecture, it seems that there isn't any significance placed on timing of macro consumption over the course of a day. Is that for simplicity or because there's really no evidence to support its importance? I put this in there specifically to trigger you. Who are you about Crono nutrition? Yeah. So if you keep your ear to the ground and you're on the interwebs, then you're likely aware of this emerging science about Crono nutrition. It's effectively like where and you what time during the day you end up consuming the bulk of your nutrition. It's an emerging area of research and there's some evidence suggesting that individuals who consume the bulk of their calories earlier in the day may have better outcomes with respect to weight loss and body composition stuff like that. Then if you consume the bulk of your calories later on in the day. A couple of problems with this. The control of like these studies is is pretty pretty rough meaning that they're not keeping these people under like lock and key and saying, you guys are all going to eat the same amount of calories. It's basically free living individuals. So it's likely the individuals who did not lose as much weight or who had worse body composition likely consumed more calories. That's the most likely explanation, but I'm not ready to write this often say there's nothing there. I think a lot of this has to do with adherence and I know that there's additional data corroborating this idea of eating during a certain time of the day. Based on how consistent you are with eating the similar meals at a given time during the day. I also know that working out what time you work out might have an impact on your chrono nutrition. So for example, if you work out in the evening, then it doesn't really matter as much that you can see the bulk of your nutrition early on in the day versus later on in the day. So where do I stand on this right now? I think that we would like to develop a dietary plan that you can adhere to long term that you can consistently hit day in and day out, right, and that ultimately supports whatever you need to do with respect to your weight, whether it be lose weight, maintain weight, gain weight, and supports your physical activity levels. Should you bias the bulk of your nutrition to earlier in the day? If you work out earlier in the day, I'd be more comfortable saying that, rather, and I don't think that I could say that you should bias your nutrition any which any particular place outside of something that improves adherence with the actual diet. I don't know if you have anything that you want to. Not much else. I just know that the chrono nutrition topic gets you going. It doesn't trigger me. It's just I think that people in general with respect to medical research. There are people who like read either biomedical research or nutrition research, and as soon as they see it, they're like, yep, that's a new thing. I want it. That's my that is my jam. I'm going to you know, make an Instagram infographic about it, and then I'm going to be the guru on this. Even though even if there's not enough information to know about this stuff right now, that's like the people who say they're gut biome experts, right, and they don't have a PhD MD after their name, right, you are not a gut microbiome expert. You're you know, a YouTuber who are something, right, and you're selling poop teas and waste treners. It's problematic, okay. With respect to chrono nutrition, I know of two experts on this right now. One is Alan Flanagan. You can read more about this at his website, which is called alinea.com, or he's also on sick lung nutrition. So if you're interested in this stuff, you can check out both of those places, but I don't necessarily have a firm opinion on how we should structure our meals through the day outside of and proven adherence. I agree overall, and I think that to your last point, there's an excellent article that I'd recommend that anybody who's a clinician probably read, and to the extent that it's accessible to non-collegations, if you're a coach, it's an article by some bright folks called the case for being a medical conservative. And basically, it's along the lines of what Jordan was just saying, where there's tons of like latest, greatest, you know, like new hotness that comes out, about medical literature. And in general, it's a full's air into immediately take up this stuff, and be like, you know, 100% on the tren for things, because most things don't work when it comes down to it. Most things that we do don't work. So there's a case for being a medical conservative, and so far as you are kind of a late adopter of things, once a sufficient body of evidence is accumulated to support a particular idea, belief, or kind of treatment approach. And so I think that's probably where we are right now, in terms of where our emphasis is, with respect to nutrition, we are probably not at the point where we're micromanaging when people eat compared to what they're eating. But if more evidence comes out, I know that Flanagan, who I coach, and I get very amusing check-ins from about, he's like plant-powered and things like that in his powerlifting trening. He's doing some of his PhD research on this stuff. They're actually locking some people in a lab and doing some like jet lag effects on how that influences their metabolic processes and things like that. Maybe we will be convinced by more of this stuff to emphasize it more. But as of now, I think the nutrition guidelines that we laid out with respect to, you know, energy intake, protein, fiber, fat proportions, things like that. And then outside of that, the beauty of that having such limited recommendations is that there's tons of room for individualization, preference, variability outside of that. So if people like to fast or they don't, people like certain foods or other foods within those guidelines, there's tons of room and they have tons of options to you. And that's a good thing. The more recommendations and restrictions limitations, it's just going to become harder to adhere to. So let's, you know, stick with what we have really good evidence for. And then I'm fine with once somebody is meeting those things if we want to manipulate the timing, then cool. But that's not my first priority with people. People always want like the like eight more rules. Yeah, we all this stuff in order to be adherent. Yeah, and you have to be super disciplined to do it, right? Because that makes you a good person. Well, right, it's the most like you do like a samurai. Right. Okay. There we did it. Hey, we did it. All right, San Diego. Thank you so much for coming out. See you in a review. Thank you so much for coming. See you guys later on. Hey, we thank you. Yeah, we thank you. Yeah, we thank you. Yeah, we thank you. Yeah, we thank you. But I want to feel that everything.

=== FILE: 2020 Virginia Beach Question and Answer (Full) [nXeMddBdefA].txt ===

Music There's so much for joining us here at our first seminar back since COVID-19. We're here in Norfolk, Virginia, Ireland, asylum gym. Thank you so much for coming out. Nobody clap this time. Yeah, all right. Thanks. Thank you for watching on YouTube. If you're checking this out, we're going to answer somEQuestions that were submitted during our seminar. Thank you for doing that. If you'rEQuestion, does not get answered here. Sorry. Go to our forum. We'll answer it there. And if that doesn't work, you should hop on one of my Instagram lives every Wednesday, 5 30 PM to 60 in a time. I'll try to answer it there. If that doesn't work, DM Austin. No, he's very active and responsive to DM's. Particularly ones that go to his unread folder. He's just, yeah, he's on it. So that works. Okay. Let's go through our questions. Question one. Does intro work out nutrition make a difference, such as gauge rate or other simple carbohydrates during a workout? You want to start with us? You got it. All right. IMean, I don't know if you have thoughts. I have some. Okay. Let's start with your thoughts. So I think we're talking about two different things with those examples. For example, if you're talking about Gatorade versus or like Gatorade 0, for example, or simple carbohydrates because there's some difference with respect to electrolyte content there. And I think for most people who are pursuing regular, just simple resistance trening, barbell trening, the type of exercise that that is, the demands of the exercise typically are not going to make intro work out carbohydrate supplementation really necessary. I would say a similar thing with respect to the electrolyte concentration for people who are doing right, just routine barbell base resistance trening like in a gym like this. I think there can be some considerations depending on the environment that the person is in. That would be one thing and then other specific aspect of their trening. So environment, I'll give you myself as an example who routinely trens in an outdoor garage in South Texas upwards of 110 degree temperatures 90 minute to two hour session losing substantial or not insignificant amounts of sweat. You could make a point for comparing, if I was just drinking lots and lots and lots of plain water during that session, let's say I ended up needing to drink, you know, two liters of plain water during that session versus something that had some electrolyte concentration in it, like a gatorate although I would also argue that the electrolyte concentration of gatorate is probably too low for that purpose. I could make a case for using something that had some added electrolytes, some added sodium, potassium, etc. during that session would be reasonable knowing that I'm not like measuring my blood levels throughout this session. But losing tons of sweat and I would prefer to replace a similar type of fluid compared to plain water if I'm going to need to use a lot of it. The consequence to drinking lots and lots of plain water is you can dilute your blood sodium levels down, condition called hyponectremia, a few other consequences that are best avoided. Of course, in the course of somebody who's trening doing that, it's not necessarily going to be life-threatening in most typical trening situations, but you hear new stories every year about, you know, college kids who go through hazing rituals and they drink tons of water until some kid dies or something like that. And so, hyponectremia is real and potentially risky. So that would be the point I would make on the electrolyte front for carbohydrate consumption, again, for regular routine like our type of parboil trening, I think for most people it's not necessary, assuming that you're eating reasonably the rest of the day. You haven't been, you know, fasted for 24 hours when you go to lift in which case, yeah, you should probably get something in you if you want to perform well during the session. But, you know, myself, I typically eat anywhere from 90 minutes to three hours somewhere in that range before I tren or consume something in that period of time. So I don't find for myself that consuming carbohydrate stir in the session is necessary. I think probably some folks who do extremely high volume bodybuilding trening or something, they may have different opinions on this, but that's kind of outside my scope or put out what I would want to manage myself. Yeah, yeah, I think for resistance trening, when considering adding an electrolyte drink, electrolyte replacement drink, one, the evidence on this is very underwhelming as far as suggesting any performance improvement, yeah, they're in the short term or like your next session being better. So I don't think I could recommend it based on current evidence. If you prefer the pallidability that way it tastes, right, and you're going to be consuming a lot of fluid because you tren in somewhere that's very hot or humid or both or you sweat a lot. That seems totally reasonable to me, but I don't know that you need to do that routinely. Main thing that's going to predict how well you do in those situations is what you aid in drink leading up to that and not just that day, but also the series of days and weeks before that. So, there currently the best fluid intake guidelines we have for athletes or the NATA North America trening Association guidelines. You guys can check those out if you're watching this online, put them in the description below about kind of outline with the complexities here. Basically people sweat at different rates, different concentrations of electrolytes are in different environments, trened for different iterations of time, so making it like again a specific hydration sort of recommendation is impossible. But with respective performance improvement, like if you drink and get your aid, well, you're bench-press-go-up, like probably not. And then as far as carbohydrates or otherwise eating food during a workout. So again, the data right now on resistance trening is not impressive at all. So from a performance standpoint, would not necessarily recommend consuming food during a workout unless you personally prefer it, which is the same way I feel about timing of a pre-workout meal. I personally like eating about two hours before I workout, but I don't like set a stopwatch after I finished my last fight to say, two hours, it's now time to live. That's just how it ends up working on my daily schedule. Other people like to eat a little closer to their workout or even a little further apart. I agree with Austin as long as you're not fasted. It's a good idea. And then that all kind of goes out the window when we start talking about endurance trening, particularly endurance trening that's lasting for over 90 minutes, two hours or longer than that. There's actually recommendations from the International Sports Society of Nutrition, talking about a actuALCARbohydrate recommendations per duration of time. I don't remember what they are off hand, but they actually give a carbohydrate recommendation. And I think that would be a good place to start. If you're an endurance-minded individual, but then I'd have to ask you like, why are you watching the Marvel Medicine YouTube channel? It's a wrong channel for you. They still want to get jacked. Yeah, no, it's fine. So in relation to your resistance trening, like you don't need any goopacks or like, you know, what else would you would you have? If you were running a marathon and you knew that you needed to snack in the middle, what would be your snack? I know a mine is, but you go first, because I know you like answering stuff on the spot. Well, if you're going to have to consume it while you're running, then I kind of tend to agree that those kind of gel pack things are fairly quick and convenient and easy to throw down instead of something you need to chew. Sure. Well, one, I'm not a very fast runner. I know this surprised you. And certainly from running a marathon, I'm not moving very quickly. Okay. So you're going to sit down and have a meal because you may as well. Yeah, I'm not winning. I'm definitely not winning. The whole idea is to finish. And I think, you know, I don't want, but I don't want to get sick later either. Okay. So for me, it's going to be an Elvis Presley, which is a grilled peanut butter in jelly sandwich with a banana. And that's delicious. Yeah, that will work well. I'm not going to run with it, but I wasn't running in the first place. I was already walking. Okay. Yeah. And then, you know, probably a beer. It's got a bunch of electrolytes in it. Get a re-hydrating and also takes the edge off because I'm like, should I really keep going? Fair enough. Yep. Prodo. All right. Question number two. If hospitalized, should I have somebody bring me whey protein? You know, this is a fine. Not a silly question. I like it. Yeah. IMean, so when I was an intern, I did try to routinely order people double protein when I was putting in their nutrition like Rex. So you have to put in orders for every patient you admit. And I'm in for diet. You know, you pick, oh, they end PO. So they can't eat anything. It's just, you know, liquids or whatever. I would routinely put in double protein. And every time I would get a page, they'd be like, the lie tissue and ask you why? Why? And I'm like, IMean, look, they're risk or sarcopenia. Oh, like, I feel like this is not like, no, this is wrong. Yeah. IMean, if I was hospitalized, I would try to eat more dietary protein. And I'm not saying that just because I'm like protein or gains. It's just the thing is, the risk of like critical illness, myopathy, bed rest, and it's effect on your antibiotic resistance, all those sort of factors, in addition to not trening, would all put you up much higher risk for losing muscle tissue. And for most folks, especially those who don't have like a profound amount of extra muscle tissue to lose, having a concentrated source of dietary protein that is available to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. And there's also relatively low in calories and it's easy to consume, seems like a good deal. So, you don't, IMean, if you can't get it in the hospital, because they would give you insure or something or boost or something like that. Yep, there's effectively a protein shake that is low in protein. Well, with plenty of sugar in it. Yeah, yeah, IMean, look, it's got calories and so people can consume that and I'm not saying that it's bad universally. I'm just saying that if you're, you know, if you're going to have the insure, like I want the extra 20 grams of protein too, so get you, get you some way. Yeah, IMean, I think that's reasonable. On the other hand, the counter argument that IMake frequently when we're talking about in hospital diets, because I am involved in making these decisions frequently, sure, is that it's unlikely to make a big difference on people's long-term outcomes when most hospital stays are not going to be particularly long. Sure, if you're in an unfortunate situation where you're in the hospital for like three months, then sure, I can make an argument that it's going to make a big difference there. But, you know, I'll frequently, majority of the patients that I admit to the hospital are going to be in the hospital for, you know, three days or less, most of them, and fewer are going to be a lot there longer than that, and then the fewest are going to be there for like weeks to months on end. So, somebody who's going to be in the hospital for a day or two days or three days, we're going to say, oh, they have heart disease, so we're going to put them on a heart healthy diet for a day in the hospital. Like, it doesn't really do anything. So, I tend to not be super picky about that because ultimately what it ends up doing is just restricting the patient's choices when they're in the hospital and they're already miserable enough. And there's no sense in my mind torturing them for something to give them like two meals that fit this criteria that really. So, the bigger deal would be if we could get them to consume sufficient dietary protein in the weeks, months, and years leading up to the hospitalization. So, they're super jacked when they go to the hospital and they're at lower risk of in-hospital mortality, and arguably they don't need to potentially go into the hospital all if the condition could have been averted. So, I think that's far more important than worrying about an in-hospital diet because most hospital stays are relatively short. But, to the extent they're going to be there for a while, as long as you don't have any reasons not to feed somebody's get, then sure you can give some protein if they're going to be there for a while. If you were going to be in the hospital for seven days, you take it some way. Maybe I'm not going to be going out of my way to get it now, but you know the range of ringy somewhere. Yeah, we're probably that strawberry junk that I keep to the back of your head. Yeah, I know. What would you recommend for managing such receiving feedback on pain in the clinical world so it's not to ignore patients' perceptions, but still maximize the rehab process. I can start. All right. So, this was the reference where I was talking about how if you're a coach and your coach and somebody who has some discomfort, say in their back, after every rep or after every set and you're askinGHow's your back feeling, how's your back feel, has your back feel constantly drawing more attention to that area? Because we know that attentional focus plays a big role in people's experience of pain. And so, I would make the recommendation to not do that when you're coaching people. This isn't to swing the other way and to say just to ignore any symptom that they report, but you don't necessarily need to go fishing for that. In a rehab context, if you are a skilled clinician and observer and communicator with your patient, then you can observe what they're doing and then just ask them what their thoughts are. After a given set, how that go, do you feel comfortable increasing the load, something like that, and given that you've had the discussion, the education process ahead of time, saying we're going to work in a range of tolerable symptoms and aim to progress gradually from there, then you can get that feedback. They can volunteer it to you rather than you go and fishing for it from them. So, to the point where if they're feeling comfortable and okay, then you can celebrate that and say, that's awesome, that's great news. You're feeling good, that's a good sign. We can keep progressing in this process. Whereas if they volunteer that this is pretty uncomfortable or I'm concerned about this or this is freaking me out or I don't want to go up anymore, then you can respect that and maybe have a discussion around it and modify the plan accordingly rather than constantly going again fishing and drawing their attention to an area that their attention may not necessarily be on. Focusing their attention more on the task and celebrating the victory of that went well, I think is probably the way that I would go in a clinical context. I recognize, however, that in the clinical world, there's some tendency and potentially even rules and requirements to get patients pain scores on a scale of 1 to 10 and that can be annoying, but you don't need to do a pain score on a scale of 1 to 10 after every set either. So, I would do the bare minimum on that front as far as getting your pain scores and then just focusing on the task and not unnecessarily drawing attention to where it doesn't need to be. I think the only just a practical sense actually don't recommend that most coaches ask about it. If you notice somebody who's demonstrating pain-related behavior which during a lift would be some sort of slow down that occurs during the descent of a squat, for example, or like hesitation during a particular that is abnormal because you've worked with this person before, you can ask like, hey, was that painful for you or you can ask them even a more open-ended question like what's going on? This is to get them to start talking about it, but my general recommendation is to not ask, does that hurt after any set? The only time I think that's appropriate is if you're trying new stuff, to try to work around an existing injury and you're kind of like literally on the fly, trying new things to see if they're still sensitive to that particular movement. So someone had low back pain like Leah when we were trying to gather and stand a cruisEQuite frequently. If she had like a low back pain, we do like a mid-shin rack pull and I would after she did a set of like how that feel, how that feel is the right question there. Yeah. And then if that didn't you know, she said, I still, I still, you know, still pretty sensitive, it's still a pretty good. We try another thing and I would say again, how does that feel? Something like that. I think, you know, the big thing that people, I don't know if they feel this way, but I certainly think it gets perceived this way. It's like you have to be perfect with this pain stuff. Like and if you mess up, like dang it, just I ruined it. Yeah, that's not the case. Like we're all humans, we all make mistakes, we all say the wrong things sometimes. The important part is the important part is to not compound an error with another error. Like, oh, did that hurt? You're like, oh, no, I said it. I said the H word. I'm saying, now you're freaking out about it. And then they're like, what? And so some of that actually gets trensferred to them. And they're like, they start feeling guilty about having pain. The normal human experience. And then the stuff can start kind of snowballing. And so I think it's just like, yeah, look, we all make mistakes. And don't use the right language all the time. We have certain goals for how we communicate and let's try to do the best we can. But in the coaching setting, I think it just plan on sayinGHow does that feel. If you notice something strenge, is it ever, ever? This was an interesting one. worthwhile to seek treatment for chronic non-specific pain. Yes. Well, I think it's worthwhile to seek treatment for pain period. I assume this question probably means like use of pain medications, but I'm not going to say that that means treatment. So a treatment would be seen a clinician being evaluated for potential causes of pain involving the patient exploring this bio-psychosocial model together coming up the shared management plan and moving forward from there. So I would say if a person has pain and they're concerned about it, see your medical professional. If it's from trening, my caveat would be hopefully they're very familiar with pain science. And unfortunately, I don't feel confident that that is the case. I'm not trying to throw shade at the medical establishment. It's just look, I'm in the medical establishment and I know that that's the case right now. So I think like our pain and rehab specialist team, those guys are the best in the business and that would be my general recommendation for somebody who's got pain from trening and they're like, I need some professional help. But I think if somebody has pain that concerns them, they're worried about specific thing. They're like, oh, I have this low back pain and I'm worried it could be cancer. It sounds crazy, but you know, that's not an unusual sort of report. It's like, oh yeah, my dad had the same sort of pain and he had cancer and that's why I'm afraid. Yeah, seeking treatment because you're going to be evaluated and then treated based on findings and then again, you as the complex patient, ideally, that would be a net benefit. I don't know that you need pain medications necessarily, which I assume is again, what this question actually meant. I don't know what it implied when I read thEQuestion. I said, I hope I didn't convey the message during my lecture that it's not worth seekinGHelp for pain related issues because that's certainly not the case. Yeah, in fact, the opposite. Yeah, it's very common for people to need help. I think that we definitely provided you with information education, hopefully empower you to self-manage many of your like common routine day to day aches and pains type situations. But to the extent that you're dealing with something, a pain related, you know, issue that maybe you don't fully know what to do or you've tried what you've learned and you can't make progress, then seeking out some consultation, evaluations, some assistance from somebody you trust would be a fantastic idea. Now, we cannot guarantee that that person will do will offer you will recommend to you unless it's somebody from our own rehab team. You know, I've definitely seen patients who end up seeing a pain specialist or something and, you know, bad things end up getting rolled out and they get a prescription for an opioid. That probably wouldn't be the case that I would go with this myself. Nor would it be the way that our rehab team would go. So we have a resource that we can offer that we trust and recommend without reservation. But if you are struggling with with an issue like this, then seekinGHelp is definitely the way to go. Would recommend? Would recommend? Yes. All right. How can we do a better job of framing exercise and diet and a positive life for our youth? For example, it's somewhat common practice for parents to not let their children leave the dinner table until they've finished all their vegetables. Another example of this would be coaches making their athletes run as a form of punishment. These experiences may frame healthy eating and exercise as a way that a synonymous with suffering and discomfort. How can we improve these psychosocial variables? Nice. Early and or address them with adults that have already met these experiences or lived these experiences. Excuse me. I picked some hard ones this time. IMean, it's not, it's just that it's so, I don't necessarily agree with the, like, the premises. So for example, like, I don't know that one may necessarily associate this with a form of punishment. Like, you might, but depends on other stuff. Like, I don't know, was your parent, you know, yelling, you go run, because you know, whatever. Or like, hey, let's go run around the house. Like, let's go do a lap. So maybe that's your suggestion. Is the way that the recommendation or the way it's going to be. Yes, yes. So it, yes. It does exactly. So for example, and I'm not pretending to give anybody parenting advice, like there's very, there's a few either of us should do that. Parenting advice, relationship advice, like, look, I'm not, I'm not your doctor for that. Like, I think, so one, I always think that the parents leading by example probably makes for a better environment, especially for making recommendations or suggestions to their kids, because mom and dad are already doing it, you know, and so you should do too. And then also if you're going, if the, you know, needing to modify some of the behaviors that the child is engaging in, especially with respect to the diet or activity, the way that you're recommending them should be ideally into a form of positive way or affirming way rather than like do this, you know, in a negative, in a negative light, because I think it just too many risks there with potentially future psychological distress around those actions. But, you know, trying to get kids to eat vegetables, for example. So one, like, you should guys, as a family should be eating vegetables regularly, and involve the kid in preparing the vegetables, and picking the vegetables, and how to, you know, which way will she'll you prepare them? Like, all that stuff is useful, because then the kids got a buy-in to these vegetables, like, look, I help make these, and then they're probably going to eat them. You know, with respect to being active, like, hey, do you, most, especially, I know the parents, I know that tren, if they tren at home, their kids want to come out into the gym and play around with mom and dad who are lifting the gym. And so exposing them rather early on, can't be a positive experience rather than say, hey, get out of my hair, go run around the house. Not saying that that's how people do it, but I think that, leading by example, and then also involving the kid in the process, like, whatever process can be useful, because then they have a bigger buy-in. Oh, you just got a home gym, or you're buildinGHome gym, like, yeah, let's set it up together. You know, where should this go? All the stuff, all the stuff that's sort of stuff can be useful, as far as adults that have already had these experiences. I think you're going to sus that out during this, like, the sort of interview process, you know, when you're taking any new client, asking them, you know, what sort of barriers do they have, or feelings, or thoughts do they have about changing the dietary patterns, and if something specific comes up, that's when you're going to get there. But I don't routinely see that to be honest. The closest I get is people say, I don't like vegetables. Yeah, and then when I explore that, it's usually due to, like, I don't like the way they taste, I don't, you know, and then I'm not really sure how to prepare them in a way that tastes, tastey, and so we just go down and kind of try things. If I could give advice to parents who have kids, it would be to get them to be an active and is many different ways as possible, and the best way to do that is not only giving them choices and opportunities, but also leading by example. So if mom and dad lift, or, or, or otherwise, are active, like, they're, you know, slightly likely the kids are going to want to join in on that. It's just the normal thing to do. Yeah, I don't have a ton to add to that. I was going to say, IMean, that's kind of why I included this question, is mainly to convey the message of leading by example, is going to be kind of the main thing that I would suggest here. For adults who have already been through this, refer back to the standard behavior change talk that we did, all the same things, what apply there, as far as how you work with people to change their behaviors. That's the idea. Did you're dead, live? No. You know, where my, my dad and my mom met at the gym. Yep. There you go. My mom was in a rubyx instructor. My dad was playing Rocket Ball and apparently short shorts meets short shorts. Nice. Yeah, that's how I came to be. Okay. Should the elderly be prescribed animal extarruids? So there are actually some situations where animal extarruids have been researched for medical use. This includes severe burns, because burn patients, whole body burns and things like that, is a major hyper-catholic state. So there's some research in that world. And other syndromes where there is severe muscle and fat wasting, a syndrome called keksia. So animal extarruids have also been researched in like HIV-AIDS related keksia, where these patients are just literally skin and bones. They've wasted away. So this is being looked at. I think part of the reason outside of the obvious like social stigma around this stuff that they're not kind of used more liberally in practice is actually when you look at the available research that we have on this stuff in elderly patients, the outcomes are actually not like mind-blowingly good. And so I think that until such point as that evidence would emerge where we put an elderly individual presumably sarcopenic individual, not just somebody who's elderly for the sake of it, on antibiotics if we see fantastic results in terms of quality of life or other kind of positive outcome measures, then I wouldn't expect medical societies or organizations to recommend this stuff until we have a solid evidence based to stand on. I think a big part of it is that that doesn't actually exist yet. And I'm actually open to the possibility that they may not deliver the benefits that we all assume. They would. Rather, I think that we should pull the levers that we'd know work right now, getting physical activity up. And getting the nutritional intake to where it should be. And I definitely think it's reasonable for us to research this stuff. But going back to the root of thEQuestion, should it should the elderly be prescribed antibiotics derriots? At this time, no, that's not wouldn't be my recommendation because we don't have clear evidence of consistent benefit whereas there is some potential for harm, particularly in elderly who, again, remember the number one calls death in the U.S. in the world that I talked about on day one yesterday's cardiovascular disease. And there are cardiovascular risks associated with these medications. If you were to give them the patients. So we're giving them medications with some known risk from a cardiovascular standpoint and potentially other organ systems that can be evolved. They're involved. There can be side effects on the liver depending on the type of antibiotics derriot and the route of administration as well as on the kidneys. And a few other kind of potential side effects and complications for unclear benefit. So we need research to demonstrate clear benefit before we're going to comfortably prescribe it. And that really stands, in my opinion, for any medical intervention that we're going to do, I would prefer to have good evidence of benefit before I do it. And that has been particularly relevant recently with COVID when it comes to decidinGHow we're going to treat these patients. Yeah, I want good evidence before I decide to give somebody particularly medication that has known risks and unknown benefits. Yeah, I feel similarly mainly with respect to the, obviously, the risk benefit analysis. But with the existing data on this, if there was robust data showing like, yeah, when you give elderly patients testosterone, they grow huge muscles and their quality life improves and all this other stuff improves, then I think it already be widely adopted. Right now you have, you know, a relatively few amount of studies, particularly looking at muscle wasting and muscle in fact combined wasting diseases. So like Austin said, HIV burn patients, other diseases that causes a kexie like liver disease, etc. And then a few like fringe papers that like randomly pop up like using testosterone and women who have chest pain like angina. Pretty you same with that one. Yes, we were. Or now the most recent paper that came out of this is testosterone use and depression. And there's other papers obviously out there on testosterone, but much fewer on other antibiotic agents, right? So people are talking about like, oxandrolone or anolvar, decandurable and or whatever. This is the same case that Psalms the selective androgen receptor modulators, these are the new drugs that are on the street, well they're on the street right now, but they're being researched. These are effectively they're supposed to be like steroid analogs like work like steroids, but have none of the side effects because they're selective for the receptors that they actually bind to. But unfortunately during the phase two clinical trials when they're doing using them on these older people, they're not getting the benefits that are purported like bigger muscles, stronger muscles, being able to, you know, be more active or anything like that. And so when you have this data that like over all suggests, not a reliable benefit and then there are known risk factors, it makes sense that the medical community is kind of like, even during our board's prep, I remember on like step one, there was a question about using anabolic steroid like a patient who was using anabolic steroids and then like one of the lines was, data that at present does not show or shows that antiboxaris don't provide a performance benefit in sport, please counsel the patient accordingly. And I was like, uh, Vinny down the street at gold might have been a video. So as far as how this works in the future, I think if better data comes out, that'll be useful in order to get that better data, we need to do more studies. And I think that in general medicine is fairly liberally leaning, you know, liberal leaning. And so as new data emerges, I don't know that any stigma is going to prevent us from like adopting the latest practices provided ample evidence exists. There was a big series of studies that came out, uh, think maybe last year or two years ago called the testosterone trials. It was a big set of multiple studies on testosterone for various outcomes. So if you're interested in this topic, I'll just look up, look, thumbs up, and get some results. Yep. All right, related does a strength athlete ever achieve enough hypertrophy. Is there a point in the athletes development whether there is no longer a need to make the muscle larger and only to make them stronger? It's a complicated question. Um, so enough hypertrophy. IMean, that's like saying, you know, you ever get jacked enough. You ever make too much money? IMean, I don't know that you can say yes to that. So as far as in an athletes development where they no longer need to make the muscles larger and only need to make them stronger, that assumes that these happen like independently. And I don't know that I view them as like to independent processes. I think that the amount of muscle mass increase that occurs, that co-ocurs with strength increase, particularly at high level strength athletes is much smaller than when a person like physique athletes, bodybuilders, et cetera, who are primarily just trening for size increases and not at all for strength increases. But I think that there's still some hypertrophy occurring, uh, nonetheless, even if it's relatively small. Now that being said, the actual hypertrophy process is rather complicated as far as like does the myophibrular hypertrophy just the contractile protein? Is that preceded some of the sarcoplasma hypertrophy, which tends to create a more substantial increase in muscle cross sectional area or does the one, you know, precede the other. That stuff's still being assessed out. Um, and so this is still an active area of research, but for my, from a practical standpoint, I think trying to get as jacked as possible, using, uh, what while still doing the specific exercises, the specific for your sport, and the correct intensity ranges to make them go up would be the, would be the goal. I don't ever think you say, I'm jacked enough. I'm going to cut the volume down. Yeah, this part, last part of this question, or it says, there's no longer a need to make the muscles larger and only to make them stronger. I think that creates an, kind of an artificial dichotomy or separation between those two things when really, at least there's, there is to be fair some debate in the research world about how much hypertrophy contributes to strength development and performance, but I tend to lean on the side, and I think you probably do too, that, um, strength performance of a particular muscle, one of the contributing factors to that strength potential is muscle size. Um, the other major contributor would be the neurological, like the skill, the recruitment, uh, kind of, kind of aspect of it. And so you can't really say, I don't need to make the muscle larger and only to make it stronger when muscle size is probably a contributor to muscle strength. Uh, and so I think that to the extent that you want to continue making your muscle stronger, uh, you should strive to make them larger as well. And I don't think there's actually a way for you to aim to make them stronger without generating some amount of hypertrophy along the way in the process. Number seven is liposuction ever a good idea. And I think a context for this question, you can view this question in a couple different contexts. One is in the context of our discussions all weekend here with respect to health. So I would kind of think back to when we talked about obesity and the situations where carrying excess body fat can be problematic. And in particular, we talked about how type of a relationship there is with the abdominal, waist or conference and medical complications. And the reason why that there's such a close relationship there is because that measurement reflects intrabdominal, or what we call visceral body fat accumulation. Inside the abdomen, inside the organs, inside the liver, for example, which is different visceral body fat or out of post-acumulations a bit different than subqtaneous or body fat that accumulates under the skin. And so the body fat or out of post is infiltrating your abdominal organs, your liver, your pancreas, things like that. That's when we see big time increases in diabetes risk, cardiovascular risk, things like that. Whereas liposuction as a treatment primarily removes subqtaneous body fat, not the kind that's inside, not the kind that's in the liver. So there's actually some data on this. There's a small study that I found while I was prepping for this where they took a group of women, some of whom had diabetes and some of whom did not all of whom had excess body fat and they performed serial large volume liposuction, removing large amounts of subqtaneous body fat. You're going to say something? What did you just move it? Put it someplace else? Yeah. No, why you would do that? Okay. Right. And they severely removed this subqtaneous body fat. And then when they looked at how they did afterwards, they did find that their waste circumference went down as a result of removing body fat. Obviously, their leptin levels went down and leptin is a hormone that is high when you have lots of body fat and low when you have less body fat. So that obviously went down. That all makes sense. When they measured their actual levels of insulin resistance and their cardiovascular risk factors, things like blood lipids and things like that, there's no change. So from a health standpoint, do not have a good case to make for liposuction. If you say, is it ever a good idea? Well, that's strictly up to you from a cosmetic standpoint. You know, at that point, I would not recommend it for medical benefits. If there is excess body fat that needs to be dealt with invasively or surgically and there are medical issues going on or even if there aren't and you meet criteria based on the criteria that we talked about yesterday, I would say real bariatric surgery is far more beneficial from a health standpoint than liposuction would be because we talked about how the long term 20, 25 year follow up a patient who get bariatric surgery. They have much greater and much more sustained weight loss and health benefits. Like you can cure diabetes in like a couple days after getting bariatric surgery. It just like goes away, which is pretty wild. Whereas liposuction does not have any of those benefits outside of cosmetic effects. Yeah, I think if for whatever reason you're getting like this rural liposuction, don't think that liposuction. Maybe that or if the liposuction would somehow improve adherence to other lifestyle changes, if you felt like I'm going to pay for this procedure from an aesthetic standpoint or because I feel like it's going to jump start my progress. That's really going to help keep me motivated and it does as far as improving adherence to a health promoting dietary pattern and exercise like cool. But if you're just like moving it around, from like front to back, I don't know that that's the move. How do you guys personally take care of your mental emotional energy? I think that anybody who's involved, particularly the healthcare fields, you know, has there's a difficult balance between like taking care of yourself, the person and then carrying for others, but you went into this field to take care of others and some days are harder than others and you give more than you get and other days you get more than you give as far as how an individual needs to approach their own particular needs for a mental health standpoint. I think services that are underutilized or mental health services if you feel better talking to a counselor or some sort of psychiatrist that can all be useful. Me personally, I have found reasonably good sort of balance if you will by trying to maintain a set of boundaries that works for me. Meaning that I can it's pretty easy to get kind of really involved in somebody else's sort of like this is their journey and this is how I'm helping them and these are all their issues that we're kind of working out but I have to also step back and understand that's not my particular situation and in addition it's maybe not okay if they're emailing me five or six times a day and so creating those boundaries where hey this is the expectations that we're setting as far as communication like frequency, so what I can be responsible for but I think overall having some sort of boundaries as the professionals and boundaries are useful. I think also kind of understanding the field that you're getting into kind of expect some of this and then using like mental health services would also be useful like people need counselors need counselors it's very underutil this is underutilized and then I don't know that there's any reliable like a specific approach that I think universally works for all folks so finding your kind of stuff that that makes it viable for you can be useful. IMean burnout is super common in medicine and for you know among some specialties more than others I get to see horrible things very frequently and it burnout is common around me as well among kind of fellow fellow clinicians so I definitely agree with everything that Jordan said with respect to professional boundaries outside of work for example if you feel like you're having issues from a mental health standpoint using those kind of resources as far as my own personal habits on this front this is a big part of why you know people say how is it that you've gone like a decade and missed one week of trening it's like well this is why IMake sure that I tren because for me personally that is my most useful way to maintain some kind of control over my life some aspect of consistency something that I enjoy that I can look forward to whenever I do end up getting out of the hospital whether it's earlier late I plan to tren regardless and don't skip that session even you know if it's 10 or 11 at night and did that plenty of times in residency because that gave me a sense of continued control over my life that's a big part is if you feel like you're not in control right so loss of self efficacy over your situation loss of autonomy that can be a big deal and then similarly you know if you you know if you're a coach biting off more than you can chew can be a big problem right in terms of your client load for example something that you actually do have control over there was a period of time when I was in residency where I was doing similarly like multiple jobs like I do right now but with respect to residency I did not have control over my life I had to be in the hospital certain times and responsible for whatever was going on there at that particular time and then I had these other things coaching and you know some telemedicine stuff I was doing outside that I did have some control over but I definitely bit off more than I could chew and I like cracked pretty hard around that period of time recognized that I'd been off way more than I could chew but at the same time I knew that I was still trening and I knew that it was temporary and that it wasn't going to be like that forever right and so ultimately fortunately I was able to get through that and have other things that I can kind of look forward to and enjoy but I've definitely am currently in a period of time where I'm actually trying to scale back a little bit of how much I'm doing because like do I really need to be doing this much right now as far as all the things that I tackle and work on at the same time and the very clear and obvious answer is no despite the fact that I still do them so so definitely easier said than done and I don't have it perfect at either but everything Jordan said as well as paying you know paying attention to you know your workload to the extent that you have control over it if you have more control over it that's awesome and and scaling back if you need to and my bias is definitely trening as far as a some measure of consistency and consistency and something I do have control over that maybe something different for you take advantage of that whatever that maybe how our lipid panels affected by dieting so in general let's talk about after you've lost weight right so you've died it and lost weight and then we'll talk about what happens while you're actively dieting so after you lost weight usually a five to ten percent weight loss produces a about ten to 15 percent reduction in LDL and maybe a little bit greater reduction in triglycerides which can be useful particularly if you were carrying too much body fat before if you lose more weight you can see a greater decrease in those numbers right so if you lost 20 percent body weight you may see a given greater decrease in your LDL and your triglycerides and in general HDL tends to stay the same if you start exercise at the same time HDL may even increase overall good now the nuance here is that if you were a candidate for statins prior to losing weight meaning that your 10 year risk of having a bad outcome so you're a 10 year risk of having a heart attack or stroke or something like that was high and you were you know a good candidate for statins the treatment goal for LDL reduction is 50 percent five zero reduce your LDL by 50 percent and so if the you know the average amount of LDL reduction you can expect by reducing your body weight five to ten percent which is a pretty substantial weight loss right is you know 10 to 15 percent you're not getting there you're less than three less than this sort of that minimum threshold so it doesn't mean that you shouldn't even try to lose weight just take the statins for big pharma not what I'm saying it's just that we should not avoid medications when they provide clear benefit and it doesn't mean that the person maybe necessary really needs to be on a statin forever it's just to reduce that risk substantially going forward maybe that's the initial initial movement what happens to the lipid panel while you're actually you think about this as the body fat you're actually liberating a lot of stored fat into the bloodstream and you're using it for fuel and so a blood test particularly a cholesterol test is a snapshot in time of how much fat is in your blood how much fat is being carried around by certain proteins in your blood and so let's say then you stick the needle in vain pull out the blood oh crap there's way more fat in your blood at this particular time it's like well yeah it's on its way to the muscle tissue to be oxidized for fuel for example and so you see that all the time that people their triglyceride levels will be significantly elevated while they're losing weight sometimes even their LDL will be elevated while they're losing weight it usually doesn't happen after you've lost weight and your weight is plateaued but certainly during weight loss so the recommendation for lipid panel intervals is about is every six months I believe after you've initiated it all of some clinicians will do three month intervals I when I was actively seeing patients and somebody was trying to lose weight for lifestyle we were trying lifestyle recommendations initially I would effectively try to schedule that second lipid test till after a period of time we're giving them to lose weight and then maintain it meaning that if it's going to take you more than three months to kind of lose the weight I would extend the interval time so that you are weight neutral maintaining your weight your new lower weight before I tested got another lipid test yeah I don't think there's a great reason to check lipid panel super frequently regardless IMean I definitely every three months is I think too frequent to be super useful I would just not check blood tests while you are actively aggressively trying to lose weight and then check things you know like that after things have stayed less so good the new client reports eating below their total daily energy expenditure but isn't losing weight what do I imagine we can't instantly correct under reporting specifically do you still prescribe an amount of calories that should result in weight loss per the NIH if they report a total daily energy intake lower than the prescription so basically somebody saying I'm eating these calories we're not losing weight what do so just like I was talking about in the nutrition lecture yesterday if the first you check the adherence right so it's like hey look are you sticking to this plan they say yes and you're like okay cool and you're taking them at their word and they're not losing weight at that calorie level I would reduce calories and the story if you do that again and they're still not losing weight I kind of go through the same process again we've just reduced another 250 to 500 calories the reporting being very adherent and still not losing weight at that point when I check for adherence so let's say two weeks have gone by they still have a loss weight asking them hey how's your adherence been any issues we talk about it I usually ask for proof not into what like I'm being an investigator here interrogating them but I want to see like their my fitness path log or however they're tracking their food or something like that just kind of make sure like you know that they're counting things correctly there's not some sort of error I also check for things that people don't tend to count certain condiments sugar sweeten beverages alcohol stuff like that issues things that people have trouble logging they're like yeah I don't log any of my coax because it's liquid so you'd be surprised and I'm you know this obviously happened sometimes otherwise it wouldn't have the story but that alcohol and condiments tend to be like the three biggest offenders they're first things that people don't track and then snacks so it's like you know are you snacking on stuff in between meals and you know again this is all in the context of somebody who's trying to lose weight and we've just lowered calories and it still doesn't work and so if nothing appears odd there then I lower I lower calories again I'm not averse to continue to lower calories unless I suspect there's this really big adherence issue you know now obviously we had a client for a while who was you know over 200 pounds and then was reporting not losing weight at 1200 calories but reported 7 out of 7 every day she was very adherent I was like well let me see I'd love to see them I fitness pal you know reports I was like oh yeah they're they're on my phone I don't know how to get them to you and I was like whoa yeah you just take them screenshots and just let the CM see what you're eating it's like it seems like a long process like I don't know that I can get them to they was some resistance and I got it and so the whole thing wasn't be like gotcha ha ha ha you know this is the issue the thing was like well let's address the actual problem right what are the issue you know what sort of barriers do we have to adherence and we had an even barrier to admitting there was a problem with adherence and so again the thing isn't gotcha the thing is all right we have an issue here what's how do we address the communication thing first and then figure out strategies to overcome the adherence issue so that's how I address the issue and just some common things that I've seen over time uh Austin you have anything to add I don't have anything to add to that all right how can you best mitigate the effect of shift work like 24 hour shifts such as naps to catch up on sleep uh and then how do you not know Cbo yourself into thinking you'll have a bad day because you didn't get enough sleep or some other factor that is far from ideal I can start so this is something that I think both of us have some experience with uh having been through periods of time already did 24 28 hour shifts um somewhat regularly and there's not a great way to get you know quality sleep during that period of time particularly when those shifts can be unpredictable so there may have been some of those shifts where I was able to get some sleep during the shift there's somewhere I had to be awake, alert and doing things the entire time and obviously there ends up being a consequence afterwards some of those days after the shift will crash harder than others or if you end up getting some sleep on the shift maybe you don't sleep as much and so the unpredictability the variability is problematic it results in you generally not feeling awesome and I think that is unfortunately probably part of the deal with doing 24 hour shifts with any degree of regularity is you're not going to feel completely awesome or completely normal all the time if they're more spaced out and relatively infrequent then you can try to get on as consistent of a sleep schedule as you can in between and that overstores some semblance of normal sleep um but just the idea was sleep in general and that this should be the takeaway if you listen to our podcast on sleep that we did with our friend Dr Gordon is that consistency is kind of what tends to be the name of the game here in particular if we can get like our patients who we have with the with insomnia if we can get them waking up at the same time every single day then that ends up resulting in developing sufficient sleep drive over time such that they end up kind of falling into a more normal sleep a sleep wake cycle rhythm but obviously this is a big barrier to having a consistent sleep schedule you just have to do the best you can in terms of consistency as far as the other part of thEQuestion where it had to do with not kind of crushing yourself by thinking you're going to have a bad session just because you didn't get enough sleep or some other factor I think this comes into the discussion I had earlier comparing external versus internal load so external load being the absolute weight on the bar whereas internal load describes the response to that trening stimulus that we measure using RPE I think that if people who have excessive focus on the importance or the significance of the external load they put all their value and self-worth on the absolute weight on the bar I think you're going to have some trouble with this situation right because you're going to put so much value on lifting a particular weight on a particular particular data particular time and your life the cards are just not going to fall that way you're going to get to that day that time go to lift that weight and maybe it doesn't go right and that's tough that's why we like having more as Jordan said maliability flexibility in your trening program where you view the trening process differently you don't view the trening process is something where you have to lift a specific weight rather you're saying I'm the weight the weight on the bar the rep I'm doing is merely a strategy to elicit this response that I'm trying to get right and in that sense you can change the weight on the bar and not freak out about it rather you can pack yourself on the back for saying I got the desired stimulus for where I am today at this particular time based on how I'm performing at this moment given everything else in my life that IMay or may not have control over right so it can almost become a win when you go into that session you use your auto regulation strategy like RPE you adjust the load accordingly you complete the whole session that's awesome that's a win you're doing more than just about anybody else out there who is doing 24 hour shifts guaranteed instead of viewing it as I was supposed to squat 500 today right but I could only squat 455 I suck big difference in how you view that in terms of the trening process so this has a lot to do with kind of how if we're going to be goal oriented the nature of goals that we use or the goals we use performance based right where you insist on performing lifting a particular weight are they outcome based like I'm lifting to win only if you ain't first your last right or are they process based goals right where I'm going to tren all four sessions that I supposed to do I'm going to get my conditioning in etc and that's my win for the week because my life is crazy like this so that's the way I view this is just reframinGHow I view the trening process in general yeah I think the only thing I have to add is like if you if you were trying to set yourself up for success you would want to control the or maximize the variables that are under your control as much as possible so for example you're on 24 hour shift that doesn't you know that doesn't mean yeah I'm going to skip three different meals and just have you know breakfast for example before leaving the hospital and three red bulls yeah exactly right yeah that's going to be so you know if you have your nutrition relatively under control with the health promoting dietary pattern you know your trening is set up to allow some flexibility rather than having very rigid processes and then again ultimately a scribing less sort of importance to any single session any single exercise or any single sort of even input into your trening IMean I would just assume that you're going to PR anyway for example yeah like if it's me if IMean I don't work outside of barbell medicine anymore this is my main baby but I wish I could get a sign to a night shift because if I go on night shift I'm going to PR historically whenever I'm on night shift PR start raining out of nowhere I have no idea why I have no reason to stay up at night now I'm not into generate so I can't do it but yeah I would just I would just assume all of the things be equal that you're going to do great so having that positive kind of outlook on stuff uh good nutrition and then I don't know that I would recommend naps because I just feel like that's not really going to help it's like it could help acute performance but if it to the extent of compromise is sleep drive later on it's probably net negative so probably wouldn't do that we just go in and tren and go on with my life because that's a good summary of you know this whole deal that's right tren and go on with your life yeah exactly very cool well thank you so much for coming out here Norfolk for our first time in our back really appreciate it

=== FILE: 5 Nutrition Controversies Explained (Eggs, CICO, Cane Sugar, and More!) [3_Vao412MZ0].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning, and strength and conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum, and on this podcast, we're tackling five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial, but hey, we ended up here as a society, and so we're going to talk about it. We're going to talk about eggs and dietary cholesterol. We're going to, you know, the one rule to rule them all. We're going to talk about kyco, so calories and calories out, because people are confused about that. Folks who have a slow metabolism talk about that. Also a topical topic. I got stuck on my own sentence structure there. High fructose corn syrup versus cane sugar, that's in the news. We'll talk about that in the controversy there, and the anabolic window, all that and more. And hey, we got a quack watch of another doctor, so you want to stay tuned for that. On the other end of the line, however, is the second most handsome doctor in North America. Dr. Austin Baraki, what's going on, man? Hey, we're doing okay, gradually better and better as I settle into this new place. And yeah, I've been battling unintentional weight loss with all of the added physical activity of moving this past week. We sure that that's the cause? Yeah, it turns out moving around a ton more every day doing constant activity, and probably not eating enough means that you will tend to spontaneously lose weight. Well, I lost some weight in Greece, and obviously it's because of the food quality in Europe. It's so much better. Did we already start the podcast with nutrition controversies? Sure, yeah. Yeah, it's not the fact that I was doing average in 25,000 steps a day, not eating as much and dehydrated for sure. And I'll let the listeners think about why that may be the case. Anyway, before we get into the controversies, here are a few announcements. One, you listen to this podcast, you click play, you hear some ads, and you probably don't like that. We don't like it either. And if you want to listen to this podcast ad-free and you want to support what we do here, you can become a Barba Medicine Plus subscriber. It's about the cost of a cup of coffee every month. You get discounts on products like our programs, like our supplements, like our apparel. You also get early access to those things. So like the new low fatigue Generation 2 template that's about to drop. I'm really excited about that one. You'll have early access to it. You also get an extended free sample to make sure that's something that you want to get. First pass at our articles, you get transcripts on our podcast, and the first month's free. You can head over to barbamedicine.supercast.com, become a member today, and we'd really appreciate it. Also, we have a live in-person seminar. Dr. Baraki and myself, Tom Campatelli, Leo Lutz, will all be in San Antonio, September 20th to 21st. We're going to do a two-day in-person seminar. We're also going to be hosting, I believe, a train with us session the Friday before. So if you want to come hang out, you want to learn from us, you want to train with us, yeah, it should be great. It's our health and performance seminar. So everything from high blood pressure to high amounts of muscular force production, whatever you want to do, that's going to be going on in September. Any other announcements you want to make, Dr. Baraki? Nothing major at the moment. All right. Well, let's get into the quack watch here. Gabrielle Lyons, come on down. You're the next contestant on Barbell Medicine's Quack Watch. I've already sent this to you, but I will play the audio now for the listeners at home. Body requires 250 to 300 grams of protein to be able to deal with repair and replacement. And remember, we talked about anabolic resistance and the decrease in efficiency of skeletal muscle. This is what we're trying to overcome. And this is why it is so important. Which leads me to where we actually are. You have all heard of the RDA, right? The recommended dietary allowance. You heard about it in medical school in your seven hours of nutrition. That sucker hasn't changed in about 50 years. 50 years? That tells me one of two things. Number one, we haven't had any new information come out. Or number two, it hasn't been a prior. All right. It's the first claim here that I want to address is that the body requires 250 to 300 grams of protein to deal with repair and replace. And then it kind of dissolves into, I assume she means exercise, but does it actually say that? What the heck? Can you imagine another physician or even the health care professional, fitness professional anywhere just making a blatant claim, bold claim? Yeah, look, you got to get at least 250 grams of protein. Completely make that. Exercise. If maybe if she's only talking to people who weigh more than 250 pounds, which, not that many people. Yeah. Maybe. Right. Like still, I'm not convinced that that's absolutely necessary in that situation. I don't think that folks who are in those higher weight categories are generally super well represented in the data from which a lot of the protein recommendations are often derived. I don't again claim to be a pinnacle of expertise on the details of some of those papers as a non-protein researcher myself, but I think that the preponderance of those subjects are probably not north of 300 pounds to have confidence in saying that, oh, they definitely need 300 grams of protein per day. Otherwise, their results are compromised in some way. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, a person who's 250 pounds or more training a lot and relatively lean, that is effectively a person doesn't exist in society. Now, obviously there are people who are like that, but that's such a small proportion that it could not be possibly accurately captured in these large data sets. Here's the weird thing. So in the caption, she actually cites the Morton study. 15 minutes long. So there are people who are familiar with the literature, but maybe not on a first name basis or last name basis with the office. This is the study that basically said, look, you don't need to take in more than 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day because there's just no further resistance training induced gains after that. That doesn't mean you can't take it in from a health perspective, but they're like, look, that's like the upper limit. She even cites that in her caption as like a boom dunk. And it's like, where the hell did you get 250 to 300 grams of protein? Like saying that makes you look like a clown. Yeah. I think it is derived from what we call motivated reasoning. She wants that to be the case. And so therefore she concludes that that is in fact the case. Yeah. I mean, when I think about like on a mechanistic level, and this is just me purely speculating, I think that even the biggest of big folks that are training real, real hard, I suspect that there's like an upper limit of like useful protein intake that's probably in that 200 to 220 grams. I'm just, you know, because effectively you're getting such a high dose of essential amino acids that you actually don't need more protein than that. Like it kind of scales up to a point based on body weight. And then after that, you're like, bro, it's just, you just got a lot of protein. So. Yeah. And the other thing to consider is like, what is that additional protein beyond what you might absolutely require? What is that potentially displacing from your diet that may actually serve you better depending on the things you're trying to do. So if you're trying to, you know, balance, for example, strength, hypertrophy, and like endurance training, you're going down like the hybrid athlete type route, or you're actually trying to do no shit like endurance training, but you want to make sure you get enough protein. Well, yeah, you probably don't need to be going that quite that high. And you might actually perform a bit better if that is not displacing a ton of carbs from your diet. If you were trying to fuel that activity. Yep. Exactly. She briefly touches on anabolic resistance, you know, again, making this appeal like, look, some people are anabolicly resistant, basically mean that they have a sub normal or below average, what do you predict response to anabolic stimuli, in this case, dietary protein and resistance training. This tends to happen as people acquire medical conditions over the lifespan, and people when people get older, particularly if they're sedentary or insufficiently active. But, you know, this can be corrected with like a 10 minute walk, for example, or like literally engaging in any type of exercise at all. And the amount of additional protein that these people would need to get the same response is maybe a half serving, one serving more. So lol at 250 to 300 grams of protein, you imagine telling your mom, you know, it's some years from now. Hey, mom, mom, I think, I think you got to start taking it, you double your protein to take, because I'm worried about anabolic resistance. I'm lifting weights. What are you talking about, dude? Yeah, this is unfortunately super common with Dr. Lyons, as well as many other folks who seemingly weigh the variables implicated in or related to anabolicly resistant. Let me, let me say that again. They seem to weigh the different variables that relate to anabolic resistance equally. What I mean by that is they put equal importance on protein, for example, as they do with resistance exercise or any exercise in general. And I think that that is incorrect. In general, we view the training stimulus, the general base of physical activity, even staying generally physically active, even if it's not dedicated exercise training, all of that is more important towards people's musculoskeletal health function longevity compared with dietary protein. In other words, the beneficial effects from exercise, general physical activity, and dedicated training outweigh the benefits of increasing protein. Even if you're consuming insufficient protein, I would rather you train. Yeah, that have more protein. Yes, exactly. You know, of course, for those who care about getting the best results, who are optimizers, yeah, you want to get everything squared away. But I don't think it's appropriate to weigh these things equally. I would put way more emphasis on training as an important variable of interest as it relates to sarcopenia and those types of outcomes. Yeah, 100%. Then she bashes on the RDA. Look, the RDA recommendation of 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per death, you know, it's outdated and they haven't updated it in years and so long. And that's either because there's either no new information or it's not a priority. Boom, roasted to the RDA. Okay, one, nobody's reading these guidelines anyway. And even those who do read them, right, mostly would be like researchers, professionals, public health type people, they're not hitting the guidelines anyway, right? And so just broadly speaking, we can assume that next to nobody is hitting the guidelines. And even when it comes to the protein intake, people eat far more protein on average than 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. It's closer to one. In some cases, just above one. Now, just to be full disclosure, I'm not protecting the RDA or the dietary guidelines. I'm no like, wow, these are so great. Again, my suspicion is they're not super accessible. There's a lot of like hand wavy stuff too long and no one reads them. But the 2020 to 2025 guidelines, they say in there, the US and Canadian dietary reference intake steering committees are currently developing plans to reexamine energy, protein, fat, and carbohydrate. The timeline for these macronutrient reviews has not yet been established. And the 2025 to 2030 guidelines have not been released yet, although the scientific consensus doesn't say anything about updating the protein target. Anyway, I guess, yeah, look, to be charitable to Dr. Lyons, I assume that this is not a priority because the public health folks and the researchers that are on this are like, look, people eat way too much protein anyway compared to, you know, this target if they're above that anyway. And no matter what we recommend, the people aren't going to eat it anyway. So who cares? Yeah, I think you'd probably make a bigger dent in population level health by altering other dietary pattern variables than by cranking up people's protein intake. And we're not here demonizing it to say that it's like terribly risky for the population be consuming that level. But if we could choose, I think to say, we're going to increase the population protein intake by whatever 20% or something like that versus to increase their dietary fiber intake by, you know, from whole food sources by almost any percent. So we're like, we would take that the latter over the former or if we could shift the, you know, sources and types of dietary fats towards a more towards a less saturated profile, for example, I think that that would be another one, although I would still take probably fiber from whole food sources over that in the near term as like my tentative prioritization or hierarchy here. Yeah, yep, agreed. She starts talking about this, these additional tests for how you would measure effectively if somebody's getting enough protein in their diet. So she talks about this one test called the indicator amino acid oxidation test. It's an or caption. This is, yep, it's better than a nitrogen balance study that that most of the original protein recommendations are built off of, but I want to point out two things. Thing one, this is still a mechanism based kind of study. You know, the outcome that you're looking at is like, are do people, are they adding net positive, net negative or, you know, maintenance level of protein intake, but it has nothing to do with hypertrophy, strength gain, cardiovascular improvement. It's not those type of outcomes. It's literally looking at like a day's worth of eating or a single meals worth of eating and then extrapolating from there. There are a few more studies that last a few days, but the second thing I want to point out is she's making this case that people need to eat so much more protein, especially older individuals. And the study that she cites on this indicator amino acid oxidation actually comes up with a range of protein recommendations for older individuals. Do you want to guess what that range is, Dr. Baraki? A lot. Nope. It's basically the RDA. It's 0.85 to 0.96 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day and the RDA is 0.8. And it's like, bro, you went, you're in, you know, in a dark room, presumably at a seminar, you're well lit, you got a microphone spotlight, an attentive audience, and you're hemming and hawing about dietary protein and you're like, yeah, I'm getting them slam dunking this topic. Older folks need to eat more protein. Look at my sources. And the source is like, nah, nah, you're wrong. Super annoying, just super annoying. And like, to me, focusing on protein so much is kind of telling that she's pretty unfamiliar with this topic overall. It's like, if you were truly an expert, you'd be like, look, the average person in the United States, average adult in the United States could probably benefit from like a performance standpoint by having an extra serving of protein per day. But the average person could also benefit from like performing because they're currently not. Yeah, they would benefit far more from exercise. Yeah, far more from starting to exercise. And so like just, God, can you imagine having a whole lecture on just protein? Yeah. Not my favorite, would not be my favorite lecture. And I would leave. I would leave. Particularly if she was the person presenting. So you're not an expert, clearly. Yeah, no hate comms, peace and love. Just maybe stop talking about this because you have a big platform and have responsibility to convey good information. So yeah, I agree. All right. All right, let's get into the first controversy. We're talking about eggs and dietary cholesterol, or as Dr. Tom Capiteli calls them, and is the best New Zealand accent, best Kiwi accent, Eeks. So what's the controversy here? Well, the controversy is that the public and many health professionals are still arguing about whether or not we should limit dietary cholesterol in our diets. And eggs are the scapegoat because that's one of the most common foods that people eat that has dietary cholesterol in them. So why or where did this controversy come from? Well, the hypothesis was that dietary cholesterol directly and dramatically drove blood cholesterol levels up, thereby increasing the risk of heart disease. And this is as far back as 1960s per the guidelines issued by the American Heart Association. It wasn't until the 2015 to 2020 dietary guidelines that an upper limit of dietary cholesterol was removed from the guidelines. And then if you look at the 2020 to 2025 guidelines, they say to keep dietary cholesterol as low as possible. But they reverted back to that. And then the 2025 to 2030 dietary guidelines, well, their scientific consensus doesn't even address dietary cholesterol at all, not even in the scientific consensus at all. So it's clear as mud in the dietary guidelines from a dietary guideline standpoint. And not that anyone reads or follows these guidelines anyway, but eggs seem to get caught in the crossfire due to their cholesterol content. There have been a number of studies with different methodology and different results about whole eggs and whether they're quote good or not, which have been poorly reported by the mainstream media. Now, if you talk about eggs or dietary cholesterol, or the social media, whether it's any other place, controversy abounds, eggs are good or they're bad, or maybe it's just the yolk that's bad. Dietary cholesterol is terrible for you, versus limiting cholesterol may be terrible for you, because many hormones require cholesterol to make. So we're going to get to the bottom of this, try to come up with a consensus here. But Dr. Baraki, when you hear about people saying, look, you can't limit dietary cholesterol because hormones, is it just an eye roll right to the back of your head? Or like, I do my best to, if there is an eye roll, I try to keep it internal and not divisible to the party with whom I'm engaging, is that's a poor way to enact belief change as we have learned from some of our favorite resources here. But it's just similar to the QuackWatch segment, it illustrates that this person is probably not an expert in this area. And they may well be deriving these narratives from certain internet and social media resources and things like that. And it's likely that they're relatively entrenched in their position, although sometimes that's more open to being changed. So in that conversation, I might ask what that's based on or where that comes from, and actually see if the person's open to a conversation on it. But in general, the cholesterol-derived hormones are synthesized by their respective cells, the endocrine organs that make those things. But all the cells of our body can make all the cholesterol they need in order to do these things. And so there is a difference in the different compartments of the body where we can find and measure cholesterol levels. So I think that people have very inaccurate understandings of blood test interpretation. I think that we've talked about that at length before on the podcast. But the blood is just one compartment of the body. Just because you can measure something in the blood, it doesn't tell you the entirety of everything about that substance in the person's body. It can be in the blood, it can be in adipose, it could be in cerebrospinal fluid, it could be in urine, it could be in saliva, it could be, and all of these things are different body fluids or different body compartments where we can measure things. So I can't just do a test in your blood for meningitis, for example, because that's a different compartment. So I have to go into that compartment and sample that fluid and test that if I want to get a sense of it. And so there's cholesterol in the blood, there's cholesterol inside our cells, there's cholesterol in our cell membranes, there's cholesterol, like that one of the biggest pools that nobody even realizes is like red blood cells carrying around, like within the red blood cells and the red blood cell membranes that we don't actually measure when we're measuring blood cholesterol levels, because that's when we're measuring lipoprotein concentrations and what they're carrying in terms of cholesterol mass. So the point here is that that the it's easy to weave a simple sounding narrative to say some hormones come from cholesterol and so you want more cholesterol in your blood so your body can make hormones. And there are so many, you're like not just leaping, you're like triple jumping over biological facts that are very important here to consider when you're trying to come to these kind of conclusions and make recommendations on it. Yeah, you've left earth orbit now and outer space, that's how big of the leap that you've been you've been taking. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so let's come up with a consensus here about dietary cholesterol and you know, by proxy, eggs. So the effect of dietary cholesterol, so it's just cholesterol in the foods that we eat, or we're theoretically things that we drink, on serum or blood cholesterol levels as carried by the lipoprotein, so like LDL, HDL, etc. Well, it's nuanced and it comes down to this other ratio and I look, these are going to be like long words, but I want you guys to follow along here. So there is a ratio called the P to S ratio, polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratio. And this is calculated on the dietary pattern a person habitually eats. Now the target would be 1.0 or better, where it's great or optimal if you're a biohacker, it would be about 2.0 or higher. The typical Western diet is 0.5 or so, sometimes lower, some studies have measured as low as 0.3 in modern times in the United States. So when the ratio is low, that means the person is consuming low amounts of polyunsaturated fats and high amounts of saturated fat. There is a more significant effect of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels. So again, let me restate that. If this ratio is low, you're not consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats, are consuming a high amount of saturated fats, there is a more significant effect of how much dietary cholesterol you eat per day on your blood cholesterol levels as measured by things like LDL, for example. When the ratio is high, lots of polyunsaturated fats, low levels of saturated fat in the diet, this effect is much smaller. It's not to really say that there's no effect, although some studies have shown minimal effects here, but the evidence overall going back long periods of time before you and I were around Dr. Baraki does indicate that basically going from no cholesterol in your diet to higher amounts does impact your blood cholesterol levels, but just maybe not that much, maybe not to a nefarious sort of clinical effect if you're consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats. So overall, this effect is sort of complex. And if I had to like tie this together and I'll get your take on this too, Dr. B, that if somebody's dietary pattern is rich in polyunsaturated fats, so from vegetables, fish, nuts, etc., whatever, and low in saturated fat, I really don't care what their dietary cholesterol levels are unless it seems to me that they're like a hyperabsorber of dietary cholesterol, for example, or there's some other reason that I'd want to limit it. I'm less concerned, right? And so at that point, I'd be like, this is probably where we'd not, where we'd want to focus our efforts. I'd probably focus on dietary fiber, potentially medical management, if somebody's at high risk of heart disease, does that kind of jive with your understanding of this? Yeah, I wanted to add some of the clarifications that have been baked into this discussion so far, because I think that perhaps in our efforts around public messaging on this, I think sometimes the message has gotten maybe a bit potentially oversimplified or has come across in a way to say that there's essentially never any significant impact of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels, and that's actually not entirely accurate. There is a lot of context around it that matters. And then even within that context, I think that there, for most people as it relates to their cardiovascular risk management, there are probably more important or stronger levers for us to be pulling on. And so there actually is, or there would be a clinical situation in which I could envision myself addressing somebody's dietary cholesterol levels, but it is almost never the first or second thing that I'm assessing, right? So I'm much more likely to get a sense of, what's the person's, you know, take a, you know, thorough dietary history and from that try to derive my gestalt about their P to S ratio. Like, are there consuming tons of high saturated fat foods or foods with fats, saturated fats derived from animal sources most commonly, but also some other ones as well, and trying to shift that pattern into an unsaturated direction. That would be a higher priority, because I think that's likely to have a bigger impact on their, on various outcomes, including their blood lipids, but also several other things. And then I'm aggressively trying to work on the dietary fiber piece, as we talked about in the last section as well. So aiming to get people to increase their intake of certain fruits and veg and legumes and, you know, higher fiber whole food sources. And if I've worked on all those things, I have an appropriate energy balance, I have appropriate, you know, physical activity, insulin sensitivity, sleep situation, I'm like attacking all the lifestyle pieces as hard as I can. And I have their dietary patterns set up the way that I think is, you know, reasonable, and they're still running, you know, higher than we'd like on some of their blood panels. Then I might, you know, if there somehow still is a residual dietary source of cholesterol that is like a significant, then I might actually target that. But that's a later on step, because I do know that going from some intake down to minimal, down to zero, for example, does actually have an impact on blood levels. But it's just that that impact is not so large as to justify it as like a leading intervention right off the bat, unless somebody really wants to. And if they do, then fine. If they wanted to, again, if they said, I'm going to go to a zero cholesterol diet, it's like, okay, I mean, I want to make sure that we still are consuming a generally well rounded and varied diet here. But I would not have concerns, for example, of, oh, your hormones are about to tank or something like that, unless you go into like, you know, a massive calorie deficit or something. But then it's not from lowering your dietary cholesterol piece. It's from the overall energy situation, which certainly can have an impact on hormones and things like that. Yeah. So to move on to eggs. So eggs, which do contain the decent amount of dietary cholesterol are just part of a broader dietary pattern, just like any other type of food, which the dietary pattern being more predictive of health than any singular food that somebody may consume. So whole eggs and or egg whites can be part of a healthy dietary pattern. I am, again, not really concerned about the quote, high cholesterol that's in eggs or really anything else. If somebody's P to S ratio is really, really good. Again, it may be a step that you'd want to take to remove those sources of dietary cholesterol, but that's way down the line. And I don't even know that it would be part of like this optimization thing for somebody who's otherwise healthy. It'd be more of like a, look, man, we're really pulling strings here. And honestly, for a person like that, they'd have to be very, very against taking a medication to further optimize the risk, which I think would have a much bigger effect. And we don't get paid anything from pharma for saying this, but it's just like, look, if you're pulling out all these stops in your diet and your lifestyle to try to optimize your risk of not having any sort of major adverse cardiac event, medications probably going to have a bigger bang for your buck than the dietary cholesterol piece. Plus, if you love eggs, I don't know. I'd be like, I'm just saying that your quality of life may be better that way. But if someone doesn't want to take medication, they really want to avoid them for whatever reason. That's fine. I'm happy to honor that and modify the diet accordingly. But that's just a smaller effect. Yeah. And I think one little caveat that this brought to mind when you, since you bring up medications is if it were true that dietary cholesterol had zero impact whatsoever on blood cholesterol levels, then isetomib would not do anything. Isetomib is a drug that inhibits intestinal absorption of cholesterol. So that's one side of the equation. So clearly, there's some relationship there. However, if dietary cholesterol was this massive driver of blood lipid regulation and cardiovascular risk, then isetomib would have a much larger effect than it actually does. So isetomib's effect, broadly speaking, in like, you know, unselected kind of population level studies and things like that, mean it, what the reason I caveat it that way is not like specifically stratifying people by hyperabsorbers or not, for example. Broadly speaking, the effect of isetomib is on the modest size. I still use it often, but I use it in higher risk patients or in those who have like statin intolerance or I want to use like low dose combination therapies, things like that. But looking at it this way, I think helps to kind of clarify the controversy here in that there's some relationship between them, but it is also modest. And then there are some people who seem to be like, you know, these hyperabsorber phenotypes for whom isetomib is likely to have a more potent effect on their blood lipids and potentially subsequent cardiovascular risk, although that kind of assessing that and, you know, that sort of precision prescribing approach is not currently like kind of standard of care, I would say, in practice. If I have, I'm most often starting it in like the highest risk patients, but in recent years started to use it more often in low dose combination therapy with folks. Yeah, you would also predict isetomib to have a smaller effect on an individual has is consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats. Yes, totally. That last few things I wanted to say, dietary cholesterol intake has basically no clinically significant effect on hormones. Nearly every cell in the body can make cholesterol. It's particularly the tissues that make hormones. It's not the rate limiting step in hormone production. Instead, that's like the trophic signals you get to those tissues from like your pituitary gland, other sort of organs. And overall, I would have people focus on the dietary pattern, limit saturated fat from red meat and most processed foods, get most of your dietary fats from fish, nuts, non-butter dairy sources and plant derived oils. And dietary cholesterol is generally a lower concern for most with in this context, this dietary pattern. For each one of these controversial questions, I've put together what I consider to be some of the best resources like links to studies and you can read those. And you're doing your own research, but I'm helping. I'm helping.  get to the right sources. All right. Second controversy, we're talking about kyco. Calories in, calories out, not to be confused. The kyco, who is a freaking stud on the platform, 10 out of 10 would want his bench press. Same. Deadlift and squat now that you mention it, gosh, can I just get as strong as him? All right. So what's the controversy here? Well, there's a very vocal group of individuals that are claiming that weight management is not just about calories in, calories out, that it's energy balance, but instead it's about hormones, food quality, and other factors. If you don't believe me, if you think I'm just making this up to talk about something on a podcast, I'd like to introduce you to Gary Taubes, Dr. Fung, Dr. Tro, a niche of, quote, women's coaches, and the rest. Men don't understand weight loss in women because it's hormones. I assume they're not talking about like hormones at the level of the brain, because in which case I could make maybe an argument there. So why is there this controversy? I think it's mainly because weight management is difficult. Very, very challenging. And even when you look at some of like the observational research on this, it's pretty interesting. So obesity rates are increasing, but self-reported food intake and food availability data suggest that that's decreasing. Amidst self-reported increases in exercise, albeit modest. So for example, adjusted mean energy intake of U.S. adults decreased in the period between 2003 and 2004 compared to 2009 and 2010 by about 100 calories or so. And during the same period of time, obesity rates went up by about 3.5, 4%. And so there are alternate models that have been produced. So this carbohydrate insulin model where people who eat more carbohydrates or insulin levels go up, that causes more fat storage independently of energy intake. That's the sort of idea behind the carbohydrate insulin model, CIM. And there's been other models around like ultraprocess foods that like, okay, these ultraprocess foods are devoid of various micronutrients and other sort of things. And it's not about calories, just because you don't have all these nutrients. And that makes you gain weight. Let's see if we can come to a consensus here. To date, there have been no successful challenges to the energy balance model for long-term weight management outside of a relatively rare condition called lipidema. The short-term changes in weight are mostly related to body water, so fluid, so gaining water weight, losing water weight. And overall, people vastly underestimate their energy intake. And it's generally worse in folks with excess body fat, excess adipose tissue. On average, people underestimate their energy intake by about 30%, but there's a wide range here. And people tend to overestimate their energy expenditure on average. The total amount or relative amount depends on the comparator. So like, how are you assessing like, is this person's estimation correct or accurate or not? But compared to extremely accurate measures of energy expenditure, so doubly labeled water. People have overestimated their energy expenditure by over 100% when recalling their activity level over the previous year. The other part of this is that exercise, because people count exercise obviously as part of their total daily energy expenditure, well, it's not purely additive to your total daily energy expenditure. So for total daily energy expenditure, you have, you know, you basic life-supporting processes, like keep the lights on, that costs energy. There's some amount of energy that's required to digest, metabolize, and otherwise store your food. And there's energy that's required to power yourself to move about your environment. And then exercise on top of that would be, quote, additive, meaning like, oh, well, I walked for an hour or two hours, or did resistance training, people think, well, I burned X amount of calories here, so I just add that on top. That's not exactly accurate, especially in the chronic, like chronic exercises. So people have been doing it for more than six months, and so your body just tends to compensate by using less energy for these other processes. To some degree, it varies amongst individuals. And weight regulation and dietary practices are complex. So people, when they're losing weight or gaining weight, there's some level of what we call metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis. So some people who are, quote, like, resistant to weight gain, well, their metabolism will speed up when they eat more in overfeeding studies or overfeeding situations. Similarly, when people are exposed to an energy deficit, some folks will be resistant to lose weight. Their metabolism will slow down a little bit. And same thing with hunger and satiety. These are very complex processes. The body may defend a certain sort of range of body weights. We'll talk about that more in one of these future controversy questions in this episode. So again, no successful challenges to energy balance. The ultra-processed food thing, yeah, they tend to have more calories and are less filling, thereby increasing energy intake on balance. So it doesn't really challenge the calories and calories out sort of final common pathway. And so, yeah, it still remains as the proximate cause of weight management. It's undefeated. If your energy intake is greater than the amount of calories that you burn, you will gain weight. 100% 10 out of 10 by definition. And if you burn more calories than you consume, you'll lose weight. Unless, again, there's some major fluid shifts that are going on for some other reason. This still encompasses all possible contributions from hormones, processed foods, individual variation, and so on. But in saying all of that, and I think when people really are pushing back against calories and calories out, what they mean, what they truly mean is that, hey, look, this isn't a great sort of strategy for a lot of people to lose weight. They're like, look, calorie counting calories didn't work for me. So calories and calories out, it's BS. Like, no, what you're saying is that that particular intervention is not particularly helpful for a large swath of population. And I agree with that. Crazy those days can be. I agree with that. You can pay professionals, nutritionists, registered dietitians to, you know, quote, track their calories. And they're still off of their, you know, the actual amount of energy that they're taking in. So can you imagine what it's like in the general public? And it just, yeah, I agree that counting calories is probably not a great intervention, but that doesn't mean that energy balance isn't like the rule or the law here. Yeah, it's, I think, easiest said that it is accurate but not useful for a lot of people. And I sometimes think about it in terms of like internal and external validity, which are some science terms relating to when you do an ultra rigorous study under very particular conditions. That might not always translate into what it is like kind of quote unquote in the real world. And so if you lock people up in a metabolic ward study and you control every calorie that enters their mouth and is absorbed and is then metabolized into usable energy by their body. And you are also in control to the extent that you have control over it over their energy expenditure, i.e. for example, their activity and things like that. Then you can have quite confident and rigorous models and predictive methods to assess their body weight changes over time. The model will hold quite well in that sort of a situation. But then as soon as you exit that metabolic ward chamber and you put people out in the real world, it is much more difficult to execute something like that to that level of rigor. And so the, it's not to say that the energy balance situation is no longer accurate, but rather it is not kind of experienced in the same way. And so when you are just when you are kind of reducing the weight management equation down to this for people, it's almost implied that it is the strategy. It's like, oh, it's the final common pathway. So that is the level where you should intervene. And maybe that's not the level where you should intervene and people are finding other kind of levels of this biology where interventions are more productive or more effective, either broadly speaking or for a given person. And so maybe intervening at that final common pathway is actually not the best place. And I think that is reflected in our own thoughts on this where we're like a better place to intervene on this is it like the food environment level, for example, right? If that were feasible, because then that would have this cascade of downstream effects and benefits that ultimately would impact the calorie intake and potentially even the calorie output side of the sides of the equation, but not by intervening all the way at the end where we tell people just be in this like toxic food environment where you don't have to do anything. You know, you can get ultra tasty foods that have little satiating effects with like no activity requirements in life and just like stop eating, right? Which is that's functionally what that's saying is when you're intervening at the end versus whether that type of how available that type of thing is at all is a much stronger determinant of people's likelihood to obtain and consume it. I do think of it in terms of this internal external validity thing. And so the scientists who are thinking in terms of internal validity metabolic ward studies to some extent are talking past the folks who are attacking calories and calories out even the clinicians who you mentioned at the outset who are saying it doesn't work. And it's like, well, it's not a thing that can work or not. It is like the biological fact, but when you say it doesn't work, it suggests that you are viewing this as an intervention with poor external validity when applied to the real world that we all live in. Yeah, yeah, I would just also finally point out that any alternate model and their proposed interventions from that alternate model, whether it's carb reduction for the carbohydrate insulin model, whether it's reduction in ultra process foods from this process food sort of sort of model. They all dovetail into this final common pathway of reducing energy intake compared to energy expenditure when matched for calories in. There's no weight loss advantage from having a from consuming a low carbohydrate diet outside of short term weight, water weight losses. Same thing for ultra process foods or whatever if there was this huge benefit, we tell you about it. Yeah, we'd be the first to tell you, but instead we're just telling you to maybe ignore these folks that advice surrounding calories and calories out because ultimately misinformation. Agree. All right. Next controversy here on the Barbell medicine podcast, we're going to talk about slow metabolism or high fru... What's the controversy here? Well, it's, you know, everybody knows it's harder to lose weight as you age. It's a tale as old as time. And for those with weight struggles, well, they probably have a slower than normal metabolism because that's how they ended up how they are. Right. I mean, just think about it. That's the controversy. Why this controversy exists. Again, I think it goes back to weight management is challenging. And it certainly does feel harder for some of their experience at trying to manage their weight, whatever their goals are. For some individuals, it does feel like a much more monumental and in some cases even insurmountable task. And I think metabolism tends to be the scapegoat for quote, all things that are beyond an individual's control. And I think this is really referring to an individual's genetics, their specific environment, and ultimately the response to the combination of those two things, a person's genetics and their environment. And so people are like, why am I having such a challenging time, you know, leaning out or achieving this particular physique or whatever compared to these other folks? It just must be my metabolism. It's slow. Does that seem reasonable to you as far as like why this controversy? See these conversations all the time, whether just age related or often like in the perimenopausal, postmenopausal world, things like that, just quite common kind of topics of conversation. Yeah. Okay, so let's see if we can come up with a consensus here. Metabolism, as measured by your resting metabolic rate and its combination with your the thermic effect of food. So that's diet induced energy expenditure, how much energy it takes to break down store metabolized food, etc. And your activity related energy expenditure. So all of that stays remarkably consistent as an adult until the middle of your seventh decade. So about 65 or so. For most folks, it's a little bit longer stays pretty, pretty consistent for active. They're really like four distinct stages of quote metabolism where it's pretty much the same. So early, you know, childhood adolescence. That's your second phase adulthood. And then after, you know, 65 or a little bit older, that seems to decline. But the most of your adult life, metabolism metabolic rate is effectively the same. And individuals with excess body fat. So individuals with obesity, they have the same metabolic rate per kilo of body weight. Sometimes it's even higher. Experimental evidence can show that as well, like up to a couple hundred calories per day. And there's no real difference in sort of like as far as weight gain goes and those who could have a high basal metabolic rate versus a lower basal metabolic rate. So there's no real experimental evidence that shows that look people with excess adiposity excess body fat have a slower metabolism than their lean counterparts. So I think what we're seeing here is just a sort of unique. I don't know. It's kind of like a, it's kind of like an experiment that's taking place in real time. But we've changed our environment such that the genetics that are relatively stable are producing a pretty predictable response. Our genetics are not set up for the modern food environment, the modern activity environment where we are less active and where we have access to all of these foods that are very, very tasty, very desirable, easy to access, cheap, high in calories, but not very filling. And our genetics are such that like, what is this? So individuals were exposed to those far more than individuals who aren't based on where they live, based on their socioeconomic status or whatever. Well, the outcome is predictable. They're going to gain body weight up until a certain point and they're going to kind of plateau off. This is probably best modeled by what's called the dual set point theory by Dr. Speekman. Now, this is still kind of speculative, but I do like this model for conceptually understanding what happens with weight regulation in adults in developed societies. That is, there is a low body weight, body fat level that your body defends vigorously against once you start to approach it, because that would increase your risk of dying from disease or otherwise not having enough, quote, fitness. And I don't mean that in like a crossfit type setting or like exercise related setting. I mean fitness in the biological, with the biological meaning like, oh, you can't reproduce because you're going to die, you're infertile, whatever. So vigorously defends against that should you approach that. And you have a upper level of body weight and body fat sort of set point that your body would theoretically defend against should you get up that high. But the problem and that's like for a predatory risk, right, or also reduce levels of fitness where now your fertility has been compromised, but that's so much higher than what society views as like attractive or desirable or whatever. And so we've seen this sort of gradual shift towards the upper end, towards that upper set point, but it's just much higher than most people would prefer. Does that seem plausible to you? It seems very biologically plausible. I think both of us have historically found this proposed model or explanation pretty compelling. I think that just at selection pressures and sort of almost like incentives in a certain way, biological incentives as another term to describe what we'll call selection pressures or lack of selection pressures can have a super potent effect on like gene environment interactions here. Yeah. And I think soon people just blame their metabolism, maybe what they're really talking about. And this is something that is definitely true. Maybe they're not really saying or not really meaning maybe unintentionally that their like basal metabolic rate is slower on average than another person of similar body mass lean body mass activity level, whatever. Maybe they're not saying that. What they're saying is like, look, when I try to change my diet or increase exercise, I don't get the same response that my friend does. And to that I say, yeah, yeah, it'd be like that. And we can call that metabolic adaptation, maybe more technical term adaptive thermogenesis. But yeah, people, you know, changes in body weight produces changes in body mass, you lose some lean body mass, for example, which in turn changes resting energy expenditure. That's somewhat predictable. But amongst individuals who are so quote unquote resistant to weight loss, a number of other changes are going to occur. They're going to have a greater than normal reduction in their basal metabolic rate. They're also going to see a greater than normal reduction in their activity related energy expenditure. That's not just exercise. That's non exercise energy expenditures. They're going to twitch less. They're going to shiver less. They're going to move less. And that's all subconscious, right? Their hunger is going to go up. Their feelings of fullness or satiety are going to go down. And for folks who are very, very resistant to weight loss, it's a tough road. I agree. And I understand that that experience is very, very challenging, you know, defeating and whatever. But that doesn't mean that you have a slow metabolism. All it means is that your genetic lot in life is much more poorly suited for the modern environment than some other folks. And yet if your intervention, if the proposal was, well, let's change the environment, we would say, yeah, let's do it. Yeah. And to the extent that's not feasible, you're living in the best time in history to have tools to manage it, right? It may not be your preferred method if it involves the use of certain meds or surgery or something like that. But we've never before had the level of, you know, potential intervention control over this as we do today at this moment. And tomorrow we'll have even more because a lot of these things are being studied. You know, this conversation around metabolism, there's two examples that I can think of that are really commonly cited. One is what you mentioned where somebody says, you know, I'm not getting the same results as this other person that I know, or I know somebody who can eat a ton of food and they never gain weight. And then I, you know, eat very little and I feel like I either do gain weight or I can't lose weight. There's a couple of variables there. One is just the intrinsic biological variation between these two people that may lead them to have different, you know, results. From these things in the modern food environment. The other is something that we talked about earlier that it's very likely that they are overestimating the amount of calories that that person is consuming in a 24 hour period. For example, maybe they see them eat a large meal, but they don't see the meal that they skipped. Yeah, a different one today. And they're severely underestimating the amount of calories that they consume. This is just what humans do. So there's some, you know, estimation inaccuracies there. There are probably some unaccounted four variables. And then, yeah, there's the biological variation between people. We could, you and I could both sit here and complain that, hey, we could try running Ed Cohn's deadlift program and we did in deadlift 900. You know, come on, man. Sorry, like just try harder. It's not, we're not, you know, the same organism. We have, you know, different, different things that are going for us and different things that are not in our, in our, in our favor here. So there is some biological variation between people, even if they are doing the same thing. You know, we put people on similar programs and we're going to see diverging results. You put people on a similar diet. You're going to see some diverging results for reasons that are both within and outside of their control. The other aspect of the metabolism piece, not just comparing between people between adults, for example, is, well, it was different when I was younger. And, you know, when I was a kid, I didn't have to think about this and I could eat whatever I wanted and things like that. And by and large, I think that a lot of that, there's, there's certainly some, depending on how long ago you were a child, there are likely to have been some changes in the food environment and things like that around and alcohol use and all sorts of other things that can come into the picture across the lifespan. But activity level is a massive, you know, variable that changes, you know, over that period of time. I think about some of my friends, kids these days that I see that are like in the, you know, four or five year old time frame and they're just like constantly throwing their bodies around all over the place doing stuff, playing, you know, just like hyperactive, you know, moving around, arguably. And that's something that, you know, obviously if we saw an adult behaving in that way, we would view it as concerning or culturally maladaptive or something like that. Instead, they're, you know, maybe potentially sitting in the office chairs in a cubicle for a fair amount of the day and, and perhaps not otherwise meeting or exceeding physical activity guidelines and things like that. So that's another variable that changes across the lifespan within a person that might be perceived as a decrease in metabolism. And it's like, kind of, if you look at like maybe total, you know, activity that you're doing or something like that, but not your basal metabolic rates, not the, those types of functions that we can measure that appear to be quite consistent across the time, time span. And your dietary patterns have also shifted from childhood to adulthood. So there's a lot of like explanatory variables that can, you know, get at these experiences that people have and then kind of jump to the conclusion of it's, it's my metabolism that's changed. Yeah, generally speaking from like adolescents, we'll call it, we're in childhood and adolescents to like adulthood, you're no longer growing. So sure metabolic rate per kilo has gone down a little bit because you're no longer growing, especially not the rate that you were. You're likely to be less active. And then again, depending on how much time has passed, let's say if you're in your six decade now, you're in your fifties compared to when you were a child, you know, in the early eighties or seventies, oh, the food environment has changed. Yes. Drastically as far as also like normal dietary practices, for example, more, much more meals are being consumed that are prepared outside of the home portion sizes are bigger, all sorts of stuff. But that doesn't mean that your metabolism is crashed. Yeah, if we, if we transplanted you in your state with your current metabolism into a different food environment, you'd be likely to do fine. If we had control over that food environment, if it was a better food environment, if we could set it up the way we wanted. Yeah. But we could also set it up in a way that's even worse and we could predict the results there too. Yeah. Food industry would love that. All right. Welcome back to the Barberal Medicine Podcast. We're talking about controversies in nutrition. And now we're going to talk about real sugar versus high fructose corn syrup. So what's the controversy here? Well, people believe that quote real sugar is better, more health promoting, etc. than high fructose corn syrup. And this is actually topical because in a post on truth social, President Donald Trump said that Coca Cola has agreed to use real cane sugar in U.S. production of their popular soda, Coke. Why is there controversy? Well, like I've always said, I've been saying this for years, maybe since the start of Barberal Medicine, it's the three C's that people are bad at. That's chemistry, critical thinking and Coke. I've been saying it for forever. People know this. So with chemistry, first we can take sweeteners and put them into two groups, nutritional and non nutritional sweeteners. So nutritional sweeteners have calories contain energy, non nutritional sweeteners do not have calories or energy. So that, you know, non nutritional sweeteners would be things like aspartame, stivia, etc. Whereas nutritional sweeteners, there are basically three types of these. There's a mono saccharide. So there's one type of chemical that would be like fructose and glucose. There's a dye saccharide. So there's two types of chemicals that are bonded together. That's like sucrose, right? This would be glucose and fructose bonded together. And then there's polyols like a sugar alcohol. So we'll focus now on dye saccharides, right? So table sugar, sucrose and high fructose corn syrup. Those are both dye saccharides. So cane sugar or quote, real sugar is sugar derived from sugar cane. That's a tropical grass. It's called cane sugar instead of just sugar to differentiate it from sugar derived from other sources like sugar beats, but they're chemically the same. It's 50% fructose and 50% glucose bonded together. Now you compare that to high fructose corn syrup. This is a blend of yep, you guessed it, fructose and glucose, but just in different proportions compared to cane sugar. So it's either 42% or 55% fructose and the rest of it is glucose. So slightly different as far as proportions, but chemically they are the same. It's fructose and glucose together. So that's the first thing that people are generally bad at chemistry. But there's your chemistry lesson. You can replay that so then you could be an expert in chemistry related to cane sugar versus high fructose corn syrup. Now we'll move on to the second C, critical thinking. People say fructose is bad and by proxy fruit is bad. So some, but not all or even most studies on fructose ingestion alone show that compared to glucose ingestion alone. Well, fructose can increase the creation of fat in the liver. This is called hepatic de novo lipogenesis. It's also less satiated or filling and so on. And these tend to be most problematic in a calorie surplus. Now what those studies don't tell you are two things. One humans by and large do not consume just pure fructose or pure glucose because table sugar is not pure glucose and fruit is not pure fructose. And also de novo lipogenesis. It's a relatively minor pathway for fructose metabolism overall. So to caveat important caveats there for this quote external validity that you talked about earlier. And so then people will say, well, look, high fructose corn syrup is bad because of the excess fructose compared to sucrose. However, the data does not show this. When you look at actual data on humans eating the same amount of calories, but they're getting some of that from high fructose corn syrup versus sucrose. Again, we're talking about things that are chemically the same to slightly different proportions. There is no difference in outcomes with respect to weight gain with respect to lipid levels with respect to fasting blood sugars with respect to blood pressure go on and on down the list. insulin sensitivity, whatever they are the same. And so if you were good at critical thinking, you would say, well, look, I had this hypothesis that because ingesting large amounts of pure fructose, especially in a calorie surplus may be deleterious to human health. And your prediction was, well, because high fructose corn syrup has more fructose in it, that's going to cause unwanted outcome, whether it's weight gain increases in blood pressure increases in atherogenic lipoprotein levels. You would have to then go to the research and say, well, show me the data. Does this actually play out? And then you look at the data and you're like, oh crap, it doesn't. Well, I guess I have to reject my hypothesis or otherwise modify it to fit this information. Yeah, fully agree. It's been frustrating to watch all this play out being touted by the HHS, I think, as a win that they're wanting to switch US Coke from that from, you know, to real quote unquote cane sugar as this kind of naturalistic sort of sort of thing that they're pursuing. I mean, if you look at historically rates of diabetes in Mexico have consistently been higher than rates of diabetes in the US, if you wanted to take a very over simplistic view on this, you're like, well, if this were such a, you know, strong driver of our diabetes rates in the US, well, what about the place where they do sometimes use a bit more of the cane sugar and things like that. So, I wish that we were targeting things similar to our conversation in the first question about prioritizing, for example, things like dietary fat, dietary fiber and the fat composition or diet and things like that, rather than as our friend doctor and it'll ski recently said he used one of my favorite commonly used phrases in medicine, re-arranging deck chairs on the Titanic, meaning it is just doing something that is ultimately going to be futile. And it's coming from a place that is not reflective of good critical thinking because you could have conversations with these folks and say, you know, I've actually sometimes wanted to do something like this to say, based on your hypothesis of the case or based on your understanding, could you describe to me the design of a study that would test this, and they would probably describe a study that probably something like it has been done. And if you showed that to them, and that it's results when in the opposite direction of what they expected, then what happens. And we know what happens in people's brains. This is not I'm not attacking anyone in particular here, but this is just what people do when they're tightly wedded to an idea or a hypothesis or a belief is that they'll immediately start scrutinizing and trying to find reasons to dismiss the evidence that they don't like. And so ultimately, another potentially futile endeavor but one that would be entertaining, nonetheless, I think. And the final see that people are bad at again, I've always said this always, always Coke Coke, people are bad at Coke. Okay, because because this claim is that well, just look at Mexican Coke. And compared it to the Coke that sold Coke, it sold the United States, because Mexican Coke, you know, they use cane sugar and not high fructose corn syrup. And so okay, one in Mexico, yeah, the generally the rates of type two diabetes and metabolic syndrome are higher in the United States. So yeah, alright, that's a problem. Yeah. Yeah, strike strike two people that again, they claim that Mexican Coke tastes better and it's better for you because he's cane sugar. Instead of high fructose corn syrup, but well, that's not true either because Coke and Mexico has used high fructose corn syrup for more than over the last 10 years. Like they've been using it for over a decade. And like, well, but it tastes better. Like, okay, well, it has a little bit more sodium in it and it has more caffeine and more proportionally are sold in bottles that affect the taste. And there's actually like a whole separate scale of like sweetness. I think it's called the bricks scale BRIX and it has to do with like how sweet the thing is and they have to adjust the amount of sweetener in the product based on what vessel it's being sold in. Interesting. And the type of sweetener that they use. I think they also put sucralose in Mexican Coke as well. So anyway, more stuff going on here. But again, like I've always said, historically, people are bad at the three C's, which chemistry, chemistry, critical thinking and Coke. So consensus here. I don't want people to get it twisted and say that we're telling you that high fructose corn syrup is uniquely health promoting. We are certainly not saying that. What we are saying is that it's no worse for you than cane sugar if consumed in the same amounts. And we have no data to suggest that people consume.  and more high fructose corn syrup in a similar food than they would regular sugar. They're both bad, to be clear. Generally speaking, I wouldn't want people to eat a diet that has a lot of added sugar from either of them. I would instead prefer that people consume those same foods with non-nutritive sweeteners if I could make a small change, meaning that they're sweetened with an artificial sweetener or a natural sweetener like stevia or monk fruit, whatever, than having added calories from cane sugar or high fructose corn syrup. But overall, your dietary pattern probably shouldn't be that sweet with respect to either added sugar or non-nutritive sweeteners either. So it's not that high fructose corn syrup, we're recommending it, 10 out of 10, you should consume it. We're like, well, maybe your diet shouldn't have either in them. Yeah, I recall the first time I heard you say that final idea that overall your diet probably shouldn't be super sweet all the time. And I thought that that was a reasonable kind of take home suggestion for people that they might not have thought of in that way. Instead of micromanaging all these things, it's like if you're constantly having sweet things all day, there's probably a problem here that we ought to address. Yeah, broader dietary pattern could be changed. But yeah, we're not saying high fructose corn syrup is uniquely healthy or that you should replace all of your cane sugar with high fructose corn syrup. We're just saying that replacing high fructose corn syrup with cane sugar is going to do nothing. Literally nothing. Literally nothing except for waste a bunch of resources, time, attention, etc. And it's like all we're doing is placating people who probably shouldn't have confident opinions on this thing. And they're like, look at what we're doing. Policy was, yeah, real food, real sugar. It's like, that seems to be a fallacy. Yeah, maybe we shouldn't be asking for that. Yep, agree. All right. Last controversy, we're talking about the anabolic window. This is still a thing people talk about? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So what's the controversy here? Well, nutrient timing is a popular strategy for enhancing training adaptations and performance from the standpoint of muscle strength and size. For example, the concept of a quote post-workout anabolic window has been proposed, whereby a limited time exists after exercise to optimize training adaptations. Some have gone so far as to claim that nutrient timing is even more critical to muscle development as total calories and total macronutrient intake. As far as why this controversy exists, I think that's like a perfect storm. One is there's been this increased recognition that recovery from exercise is important. And there's been a lot of evidence on like sort of what mechanisms are at play. So like, ooh, you exercise and you're depleting your glycogen levels in the muscle, you're breaking down muscle protein. And then if you replace them immediately, theoretically, your body will supercompensate. You'll have store more glycogen, you'll store more protein, add bigger muscles. Athletes at the highest level, there's often like very intensive efforts to right after they're done with the training session. Hey, they got to recover by some sort of, uh, Mexico, whether it's eating, like whole foods or some sort of supplement. There's also a lot of marketing for supplements based around this. Oh, you need post-workout carbs and the specific type of carbs, whether it's a highly branched cyclic dextrin, whether it's pure glucose, you know, whatever, something like that. Um, and this focus on mechanisms like, ooh, this increases muscle protein synthesis or this increases the rate of glycogen replenishment or decreases the rate of muscle protein breakdown. All of those mechanisms are reasonable to investigate and discuss, but we can't, you know, blind ourselves to, well, what are we really looking for? Because I personally, I don't really care about my muscle protein synthesis rate compared to, well, what did my strength do? What did my muscle size do? How did my endurance performance do after this particular intervention? Muscle protein synthesis, muscle protein breakdown, glycogen breakdown, glycogen resynthesis rates, those are all short-term sort of proxies for like what's going on in the body. To tell you like, well, is this person going to gain more muscle mass? Is this person going to gain more muscle size? Is it, or muscle strength? Is there endurance performance going to be supported? But you can actually measure those things too. And so like, measure the proxy if you want, that's fine for generating hypotheses, but then you got to test it later on. The last part here that I think also contributes to the controversy here is generally speaking poor study design, because a lot of the studies that led to this controversy about an, quote, unquote, anabolic window, post-workout anabolic window, tested untrained individuals who were previously fasted going into a session. And it's like, well, yeah, if you're fasted, that's a totally different person than someone who's fed going into a workout. And so the, quote, unquote, effects of post-workout nutrition would be different for somebody who is fasted compared to being fed. And you see the same thing with intra-workout nutrition, where people are like, oh, you got to eat like gummies in the middle of a workout. And it's like, well, maybe if you were fasted, that's different than if you were fed, and that's what the data shows. Mostly unnecessary intra-workout nutrition, unless the sessions are longer than about 90 to 120 minutes. And that's mostly in either really high volume resistance training or a very intensive sort of endurance efforts or even prolonged efforts. Yeah, not an hour and a half or two hour session because your rest periods are 10 to 15 minutes long. Yeah, or you're yapping, you're spitting game. Yeah, which 0 to 10 would not recommend. So let's see if we can come up with a consensus here and wrap this up. Based on existing data, in the fed state, there's little evidence supporting the need to immediately consume a post-workout meal. And most of the time, both being recommended as a combination of protein and carbohydrates in that post-workout window. This is provided that a person otherwise eats the same amount of calories, the same macronutrient intake, et cetera. If fasted, whether overnight or otherwise greater than four to six hours between meals with no snack before a workout, sure, would recommend hustling to get a meal in, but that's mostly because you haven't eaten in a while. A few exceptions here. First exception, if there's a short turnaround before the next training session or competition, so for example, like eight hours, less than eight hours. Yeah, post-workout nutrition, very, very important just because you have a limited amount of time here. But if we're talking about 24 hours or 48 hours between your next exercise session because you work out three days a week, which we're big fans of, this doesn't apply to you. Just go on living your life, yeah. Totally. If you have a very high training volume such that you're spending 20 hours, 30 hours a week exercising, well, because of that, you have a limited amount of time overall in your week to eat. And so at that point, post-workout nutrition becomes far more important just because you have a limited amount of time to take in enough energy to support your existing body weight and subsequent performance. So overall, I would recommend that folks eat somewhere between three to five meals per day, three to five hours apart, and it should produce a situation where an individual is fed for each workout and gets a meal after each workout. It's just the timing of that meal after the workout to me doesn't really matter unless somebody is like, look, I'm going to train again in a few hours or I got another competition in a few hours. If you prefer to train first thing in the morning and you want to be fasted, well, yeah, that post-workout meal is going to become more important, but not because of this quote, post-workout anabolic window. It's mostly because you were fasted before and now it's time to eat. Yeah, I remember getting, I mean, this was 20 years ago at this point, but just getting blasted all the time with ads from like T-Nation for every possible supplement to take like pre-intra, early intralate post, before bed, day off, like they went hard with that kind of stuff. I'll be honest, this is something that I haven't thought about ever in years. I think that there was a time very early on in my training career where, you know, I didn't know anything and I was listening to, you know, the advice that was around at the time, so did try to get something in like probably a lot quicker than I needed to afterwards. But these days, yeah, not something I think about really at all. And, you know, for example, recently with this move and all the effort and work and how crazy those days can be, it's actually worked out best for me to try to get up and go and get some training in first thing in the morning before the day starts. And I get sucked up in projects or whatever else needs to happen around the house. And I've just gotten up and I've gone and I've been fasted and I've done my training, not because I prefer to train that way, but it just is. And I've not given any thought to this concern over my anabolic potential or my window. And that timeframe I just eat when I get back and then go on living my life. And ultimately it's fine. Is there any compromise? I mean, maybe, but it's also a compromise that would only be in the short term anyway. I would rather train fasted than not train or train fasted and maybe actually perform a little better when I'm energized in the in the morning compared to waiting until later in the day when I would otherwise feel bettered and ready to train. But I've been smoked by like working around the house all day or something like that. Right. So there's a lot of trade off to consider and this window is not one of them, at least for me and I don't think it is for you either. Yeah, correct. I think ultimately that I just want to have my three to five meals a day. I eat when I eat. I want to I prefer to have a meal within 90 minutes prior to exercising and then because my if it's 90 minutes before and then my workout session takes 90 minutes. So now I'm at three hours that I got to go home a shower or whatever. It's another hour or so. Well, now it's four hours. But time to eat again. And so that's my post-workout meal. But I'm not like bringing a shaker to the gym, you know, and like I just finished my last set. I leave all the equipment out. I hustle to fill it up with water like I got to get it in now. Yeah. Yeah. Body doesn't work that way, particularly when you were fed going into it for sure. It's my hot take. You ready for a hot take? Sure. I think that generally speaking, people consuming a lot of intro workout food. I think that's that's generally net negative for the vast majority of individuals. And here's why. One, most folks are not training at a high enough level and doing enough training where they have limited opportunities to eat otherwise. That's one thing too. Most people are not training long enough where, yeah, really making sure that you have enough glycogen on board in your muscles to fuel activity is the rate limiting step. Just look if you're training two, three hours at a time, different situation, particularly for fasted, but most people are not. And so there's really no benefit to consuming food in between. But instead, what you're doing is limiting the sort of period between meals where your body is like figuring out how to deal with low energy availability, sugar. You know, you're just all perma fed. And it's the same thing. Constantly post-prandial. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like when people are in the hospital and they're getting, you know, a TPN or something like that around the clock. And you're like, yeah. So in addition to the medical condition for the while you're in the hospital, that's contributing to some insulin resistance and this and the other. But you're also constantly fed. And so it's just like constantly grazing throughout the day versus having discrete meals, which is what you would prefer. And oh, by the way, the majority of foods that people are consuming in the middle of a workout are highly processed, added sugar or whatever that are not very filling. And so to me, that represents a night is for like excess energy intake. And I'm like, you didn't need that. Most of the time, if you need to gain weight and that's the strategy you want to pick, like fine, I guess. But yeah, it's just funny to me. I see people with these huge jugs of, you know, basically liquid sugar, right? Yeah. And they're just consuming it throughout a workout and they're doing like some bodybuilding stuff. And I'm like, yeah, that definitely is not a context where that makes sense to me. I think the ultra endurance stuff, the, you know, super, super high volume aerobic work, things like that where they're sucking down gels on their 90 grand an hour training stuff like that. That's totally fair. I don't see any almost any situation where I'd be doing that in a lifting context, particularly if I'm training to my preference relatively frequently because I could not train that high volume in one session as often as I'd like to train in general. How many people do you think that are having like, you know, they're in a lifting session 5075 gram 100 grams of carbs during the workout from, you know, added sugar or just pure sugar, whatever. How many of those folks do you think are like, I would never have a regular Coke? Yeah, right. And it's like, I mean, you could if you wanted to that would be the time theoretically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In the same way that general dietary patterns probably shouldn't be that sweet. You should probably also not always be fed. There you go. There you go. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the barbell medicine podcast five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial. Just wanted to bring your attention again. If you want to become a barbell medicine plus member, you want to listen to the podcast ad for you want early access to them, you want discounts on our products early access to our products and all for the cost of about a cup of coffee a month and the first month's free head to medicine dot supercast.com. We'd really appreciate your support there. And before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the barbell medicine podcast.

=== FILE: A Doctor Weighs In On Caffeine for Health And Performance [7TD0khFEIXo].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine under host doctor Jordan Vaganbaum and this episode is all about caffeine. Caffeine is widely used in United States as a recent survey reports that 85% of the population consumes at least one caffeinated beverage per day. The average intake is about 165 milligrams per day, which is about 2 cups of coffee or 4 cups of tea, whereas the 90th percentile for caffeine intake is reported to be about 380 milligrams per day or 4 cups of coffee. Given the prevalence of caffeine use, it should come as no surprise. There's a ton of research out there that's going to help answer our questions on this particular topic. Caffeine works in multiple ways, many of which haven't been fully fleshed out. For example, there are a number of findings from animal models and isolated tissue studies, which is basically looking at how caffeine works on single muscle fibers that really haven't been replicated in human studies. In any case, based on existing evidence, we can only say that caffeine tends to do the following things in humans. So, thing 1. It increases calcium release in the muscle tissue, so that's cardiac muscle, skeletal muscle and smooth muscle, which result in a number of actions such as increased muscle contraction, force potential and increased muscle excitability. It also inhibits phosphodiesterase enzymes to increase intracellular, cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP, which basically have many different actions or secondary messengers, and it changes the cells excitability and function. It also blocks adenosine receptors, with varying potency at each receptor. Increases nor epinephrine release from the sympathetic nervous system, basically your fire flight, catecholomines, overall there are a number of mechanisms that caffeine uses, though again, they're not fully understood. At present, the increase in excitability of the muscle tissue via caffeine-induced calcium increase, appear to play a significant role. The current recommendation regarding safety of caffeine intake basically states that caffeine intakes up to 400 milligrams per day, which is about 4 to 5 cups of coffee is safe for healthy, non-pregnant adults, and generally does not produce negative side effects. To that end, regular caffeine ingestion appears to be well tolerated, and does not appear to be reliably-relinked to disease. Sodosis are exceedingly rare, as well as the LD50, which stands for the lethal dose 50, the dose needed to kill about 50% of the test population, is about 150 to 200 milligrams per kilogram body weight, or 75 to 100 cups of coffee for 70 kilo, 154 pound adult, depending on individual sensitivities. A few important things to note regarding caffeine and health. So first off, caffeine intake does increase the force of each heartbeat, but tends to not actually increase heart rate in most individuals. With respect to blood pressure, many folks will say that drinking caffeine or coffee increases blood pressure, although we don't see that in habitual consumers, so people who drink caffeine or consume coffee regularly, although you do tend to see a small increase in it in caffeine, naive individuals, and those who are very, very sensitive to it. In case you were wondering, yes, coffee does tend to increase your own production, and your infrequency if dose of 250 to 300 milligrams of coffee per day, and same thing with gut motility. So you might have to go. Respect to specific diseases. There are a number of studies suggesting that regular coffee intake may reduce the risk of heart attack, also diabetes, and some cancers, even at relatively high intake, greater than four cups per day. In that same breath, however, there are also other studies suggesting no risk reduction with these diseases with regular coffee consumption. Though, again, there aren't really studies showing an increased risk with increased coffee consumption. And again, not all caffeine comes from coffee, which makes it hard to confidently describe the relationship of caffeine intake with all these potential disease states. So overall, the existing literature suggests that moderate to even high intakes of caffeine 400 to 600 milligrams of caffeine per day is not associated with any increase in cardiovascular disease risk, cardiac rhythmia, any increased risk of heart failure, or pie blood pressure, or even blood pressure changes, and those who regularly consume caffeine. As mentioned before, consumption of moderate amounts of caffeine is associated with an actual reduction in risk of cardiovascular disease, although that is complicated because again, coffee and caffeine are not the same thing. There might be multiple things at play there. Taken together, I feel pretty comfortable in saying that habitual caffeine or coffee intake is unlikely to be the smoking gun with respect to developing any particular disease, like cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, etc. Provided the person tolerates it well, but it's probably not saving anyone's life either. I think the biggest potential health risk from caffeine intake or coffee intake probably has to do with individuals sleep patterns. This is a very complex relationship when you actually look at the literature. There are unreliable findings with respect to caffeine intake dosing and timing relative to time to sleep and how that actually affects sleep. So I don't want to say that there's any one particular sort of relationship here. It does appear that in Westernized societies that timing people's caffeine intake very close to bedtime, so even up to six hours before bed may negatively impact their sleep that night. They call it this coffee cycle, so effectively drink coffee because it improves your performance, which we'll talk about shortly. Then you go through a period of coffee deprivation, which is during the day and during sleep. That actually may be affects your sleep overnight in a negative way and you wake up in the morning and you're more fatigued and so you drink more coffee. That relationship again is very complex, however. It appears that many individuals can consume coffee with really no impact on their sleep. It also appears that you might need some additional triggers to reduce your actual sleep quality or sleep quantity. So overall I think there needs to be this sort of individual assessment based on how folks actually respond to caffeine. My general advice is to avoid anything with caffeine in it about six to eight hours prior to bed unless you've again previously tolerated it well and it doesn't affect your sleep quantity. So how much you're sleeping and sleep quality. Again, this is really complex, so I wouldn't go around saying that caffeine negatively affects your sleep. I think it's highly individualized and very, very complex. Check out the study by Ocaligan about sleep and caffeine intake and you can start to get a better appreciation of just how complex this issue is. There are many different ways to administer a deliver caffeine, so let's talk about the different ways. First up is caffeine gum. There is a markedly faster rate of absorption with gum compared to other ways of administering caffeine. For example, when you use a 200mg dose, they see a very large increase in plasma caffeine concentration, so caffeine in your blood between five and 15 minutes after ingesting it. Capsules. Basically, the largest increase in caffeine concentration seen in the blood is seen about 25 to 45 minutes after consumption. So slower than gum. You can also do mouth rinse in, so swish and spit of caffeine is relatively new. You don't actually swallow the solution, but you kind of swirl around your mouth for about five to 20 seconds. Unfortunately, data looking at blood levels of caffeine, report no increases in blood caffeine concentration, so it doesn't actually appear that this necessarily works, although people are trying this. Energy drinks, this is a huge topic and people are very, very interested. A number of studies have actually investigated the effects of commercially available energy drinks, such as red bull, which basically contains 160mg of caffeine, 2000mg of touring, and about 10 grams of glucose per five-hour GCs. While caffeine is shown to potentially improve performance and isolation, the current report on energy drinks, shoulder shrug, because it has all these different things in it, and it doesn't appear to actually work as well as caffeine. Interestingly, the blood concentration of caffeine appears to rise more slowly and are overall lower in when caffeine is obtained from energy drinks than compared to when drinking warm coffee. And the last way that people are administering caffeine is through the nose via an intrenasal spray 20 seconds. Unfortunately, it doesn't actually increase blood levels of caffeine and doesn't appear to actually improve performance when tested. So there are many different ways to administer caffeine. Overall, oral caffeine is rapidly and completely absorbed. About 99% is absorbed within 45 minutes of ingestion, provided it's not taken via this swishenspit, like oral rinse or nasal misting. Caffeine metabolism is actually increased, meaning caffeine is broken down faster by individuals who smoke, if they're fasting or vigorous exercise, whereas metabolism is actually slowed down, perhaps to a clinically insignificant degree by grapefruit. An important note is that repeated administration of caffeine doesn't really change its pharmacokinetics, so it's absorption and time to peak in the body. What people commonly talk about with respect to caffeine is tolerance, but tolerance is not observed for all effects of caffeine, such as the cognitive and physical performance improvements, those seem to persist, even though you're getting some tolerance effect. You've mostly become tolerant to physiological changes like changes in heart rate and blood pressure that only occur in caffeine naive individuals, but not necessarily in those who are official consumers. That being said, there are withdrawal symptoms, sometimes seen following caffeine cessation. Symptoms include headache, irritability, nervousness, and a reduction in energy, and at this time, the physiological basis for these symptoms are unknown. Although the development of withdrawal symptoms might indicate an addictive property, caffeine does not actually have a convincing profile as an addictive drug. Dozing caffeine can get a little bit complicated, but let's start out with what the evidence says. A number of recent systematic reviews and meta-analysis indicate that the urgogenic or performance enhancing dose of caffeine falls somewhere in this 3-9 milligrams per kilogram bodyweight range. However, the correct dose for an individual is going to differ based on the source of caffeine, the specific exercise test, and likely further vary between individuals based on their individual physiology, preferences, et cetera. From our practical standpoint, I like when individuals start on the lower end that 3 milligrams per kilogram. So if you have a 70 kilo or 154 pound individual, and coffee has 100 milligrams, we'll say of caffeine per cup. Two cups of coffee gives you 200 milligrams of caffeine, and that's right at that 3 milligrams per kilo level. They might need more than that to actually see a performance benefit. But in any case, that's a good place to start on the low end and take about 60 minutes prior to exercise, and that should give most folks an urgogenic or performance enhancing benefit. Individual preferences with respect to caffeine source, sensitivity, et cetera, should always be taken in a consideration, and the dose should be tailored appropriately. So overall, I like starting at the low end of the range, 3 milligrams per kilo body weight, and seeinGHow folks do, if they see a performance improvement there, that's great. If they don't see a performance improvement, and they don't have any untoward side effects based on their preferences, and their individual physiology might increase that dose a little bit working up until we see an effect. Again, with respect to tolerance, the main thing that we see is a reduction or attenuation of the physiological side effects, heart rate, blood pressure, increases, and stuff like that. We don't really see the reduction in cognitive or performance benefits, which is good. Which means you don't necessarily need a caffeine holiday unless you're trying to sort of assess out some maybe sleep issue that you feel like you're having from this, or others sort of side effect that you feel like it's due to caffeine. That's probably not worth doing from a performance improvement standpoint, meaning if you take a break from caffeine for a week, you're probably not going to come back and have improved results when you start using caffeine again in the gym. You might feel a little bit more amped up, but as far as the actual data on physical performance probably not. Saying all of that, I don't know that every single workout is the most important work out of your life, and you actually need a performance improving performance enhancing sort of substance every single time. My personal opinion is that the most important workouts that you do should probably, you could reason to take caffeine before them. That's fine. And again, not every workout is the most important workout of your life. So for me, days one and two, I usually take caffeine beforehand, and then on days three and four, I typically don't unless I'm tired, in which case I do. Because that happens. The main thing is I try to avoid taking caffeine within that six to eight hour range before it's time to go to bed. Based on the most recent systematic reviews and meta analyses, caffeine ingestion does appear to improve both cognitive and physical performance. With specific physical performance, we're talking about aerobic endurance, muscular strength, muscular endurance, power, jumping performance, et cetera. But how much does caffeine actually move the needle? So for aerobic endurance, when you pull all the studies together, you see about an average of 16% increase until the time to exhaustion on tasks like run or cycle to exhaustion at 80% of the VO2 max. So, there's back to muscular strength. We tend to see a 3% increase in 1 RM and vertical jump when you, again, you pull all the studies testing this sort of stuff together. When we look at how fast individuals can actually complete an aerobic task, specifically in the 45 second to eight minute range, we typically see that they're about one to two percent faster with caffeine. In general, there's a larger effect. The shorter the event is, even though there is data showing improvements in endurance and long distance events, but with respect to speed, we're talking about one to two percent improvements in that 45 second to eight minute range with potentially a bigger effect in the shorter distance. Also, again, improves things like power, jumping. And as we mentioned earlier, cognitive functions such as vigilance, so your alertness, reaction time, memory, reasoning, learning, decision making, and reduces errors in both folks who had a good night asleep and who are sleep deprived. Overall, the data is pretty robust supporting an improvement. Although one caveat, most of the studies are performed in men only. There are a handful of studies on women, specifically with respect to physical performance and shows an improvement there as well. Although when they use lower doses, so one point five milligrams per kilo body weight, it appears to only be in muscular strength, not necessarily muscular endurance, but again, there are other studies which are all linked in the description below. Alright, so that's a wrap on caffeine. In summary, caffeine is super common. 85 percent of individuals in the United States consume at least one caffeinated beverage per day. It works via a bunch of different mechanisms. Ultimately, with respect to physical performance, probably just increasing the muscles excitability as far as dosine. We're looking aT3 to nine milligrams per kilogram body weight, start on the lower and work up over time. As far as the type of caffeine, would prefer a liquid beverage. Coffee is great. Should you prefer that, but other other sources as well. Probably avoid the switch and spit and the intrenasal administration. With respect to health, there does seem to be a net benefit with respect to caffeine intake. Particularly if it comes from coffee, although individuals who are very sensitive to it are not taller at well, obviously should avoid it. With respect to sleep, would recommend avoiding caffeine intake about six to eight hours prior to sleep if you find your more sensitive to that. You can even push that back further, although again, the relationship between sleep and caffeine intake is very, very complicated. And then finally, caffeine does appear to have a pretty good size effect on a bunch of different physical and cognitive performance tasks. So if you're looking to improve your performance, you're looking for a little leg up, caffeine pre-workout about 60 minutes or pre-test perhaps about 60 minutes may improve your performance. So that's it on caffeine. Thank you guys so much for watching. Make sure you subscribe to get updates on all the latest content. Make sure you hit the like button if you did indeed like the video. And hey, let us know what you think in the comments below. Pretty excited to hear from you guys. And any additional topics you want us to cover right here on the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. Until next Tuesday, see you guys. .

=== FILE: A Full Day of Eating to Gain Muscle w⧸ Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum [O2lxBRCaHKk].txt ===

Good morning everybody and welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel, we bring modern medicine to strengthening and strengthening to modern medicine. I'm your host Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum today. It is a diet vlog. If you guys don't know, I am moving up a weight class to 105 kilo class. It's 231 pounds. I normally sit at 1.98 or the 205 is a penultimate federation. I'm competing in, but I decided to take a plunge, move up a weight class, have some numbers I want to hit and I feel like I'm kind of out growing the 90 kilo with a 93 kilo weight class. So I'm going to take you guys through a day of eating, now that I'm trying to gain weight. So yeah, this is what I eat on a normal basis. Let's get right into it with my favorite meal of the day breakfast. All right, so as you guys can see, it's going to be an omelet and oatmeal. I'm trying to hit a specific amount of macros per day in order to gain weight. So right now my numbers are 200 grams of protein, 500 grams of carbohydrates and 100 grams of fat per day in total. I generally eat 45 meals a day. So this is meal number one and then we'll probably try to split up the protein throughout all of those meals. And because reading so many carbohydrates, it's going to look like a lot less animal source protein. Totally fine because the essential amino acid content is still going to be pretty high per meal. So I'm not worried at all about micro managing my essential amino acid intake. All right, so let's get to cooking. Okay, started with the bacon. I don't have bacon every day of the week. Usually three times a week or less just kind of keep my process needed to take in check. On days that I don't have bacon, I usually add an extra egg yolk to make up for the fat that's in this glorious goodness. So that's my bacon. I'm going to cook that first and then add some egg to it. Now because my carbohydrates are so high, I'm actually going to have end up having a lot less protein from like animal sources that you guys think just do to those trace proteins and those carbohydrates. So yeah, 17 grams of protein from egg. We've got six grams from the bacon for one serving of that. So that puts us at 23 grams of protein. Then we're going to have seven grams here from one serving of cheese. So now we're 30 grams of protein and then I'm going to do three servings of oatmeal this morning. And that's going to be another 15 grams. So that puts us at 45 grams of protein for the meal, which is going to be totally sufficient for my total essential amino acid needs per meal. And then my protein goal per meal is right around that 40 to 50 grams of protein. Just depending on how many meals I end up having during the day. So good start to the morning and then I also have some blueberries that I'm going to end up having two servings of to get my total fruit and vegetable servings in the morning. So another question is going to be about the egg situation here. So why egg whites over whole eggs? Why did you have only one whole egg? Is it about dietary cholesterol? Not really. I don't think dietary cholesterol tends to be a big predictor of blood cholesterol levels. Except in folks who are either really good at absorbing dietary cholesterol or people with other sort of congenital issues with cholesterol production or removal. So some folks will have to cut their dietary cholesterol down in order to reduce cholesterol levels. I think one thing we can do to promote health with respect to cholesterol levels is actually keep in our total dietary saturated fat intake down to less than 10% of total daily calories. And so I'll show you guys how I do that. But I wouldn't really worry about dietary cholesterol unless you're in one of those categories to either absorb very, very efficiently or has some other congenital disorder like familial hyper cholesterol, theemia or something like that. All right, bacon's cooks. We're going to add the egg to that. And I left this cook. Hopefully I get a good armlet turn out today. It would be my luck that Juan Filme and I would be not so great. Yeah, and so the other thing I do to make sure that I'm getting the right amount of carbohydrates and calories, et cetera, if I'm making something in my kitchen, I'm just going to measure it because it's already here, right? I'm not going to try to eyeball it too much, especially if it's a change from my norm. Now, when I was maintaining weight, so it would be three servings here that's 120 grams. When I was maintaining weight, I could like eyeball stuff very, very accurately. But since I've made this dietary change, I know that I'm going to have to take more specific changes here. So I've goT3 servings here, oatmeal, add a little bit of water, cook that. Same thing with the cheese. Just turn the scale on. Just do one serving of cheese here. Easy way for pork and control. A lot of times when people like, oh, I'm eating this much. I'm not gaining weight or I'm eating this much. I'm not losing weight. First thing we want to make sure is that adherence is good and they're actually taking the numbers. They say they are. And then overcoming those obstacles that are preventing them from hitting the correct numbers. So first thing first is just making sure that the numbers are accurate. This looks good. Fold number one. It's a little diner style omelet. I'm kind of bummed because all week I've been having really good looking omelets. Now of course, with the camera roll, and this is very average looking, but we'll play it. All of my other car and protein sources, I'm about 25 grams of fat. I'll get you the final numbers. Let me look at the whole meal. So I'm not going to add any more fat to the oatmeal, but I will add some blueberries. So wash these blueberries. Yes, today. I'm going to add about 150 grams, 160 grams rather, which would be about two servings. You can use a cup of measuring cup for this, but since I have the scale out, I just use that. That looks pretty good. All right. Add a little Stivia little cinnamon. Mix it up. We'll have breakfast. All right, so this is breakfast. Got the tri-fold omelet. We'll bake it in it. Got the massive serving of oatmeal this morning. It's not my best work aesthetically, but I'm not a gourmet chef. This one would be eating or not going to make you guys wash me eat, but here's the macros for this meal. And we'll catch you at the next meal. All right, what's up? We're back with meal number two. This is usually something that's grab and go for me. Usually in between getting worked on. And then it's also my pre-workout meal. Now general rules for me when I talk to people about pre-imposed work out nutrition, I typically say, hey, we should have more carbohydrates in those meals and less fat. The idea is that if your calorie restricted at all satiety or feelings of fullness are really really important in order to improve adherence. And so what I'd like to do is if we're going to have a lot of carbohydrates or more carbohydrates in particular meals, I think if we put the fat in the other meals, that might improve satiety, might improve adherence. Additionally, increasing the fat content or the fiber content of a meal tends to make it take longer to get from mouth through the digestive system and into the bloodstream. So those are more considerations when we don't either have a lot of time between the meal and when you're trening or if somebody's in a calorie restricted state. If you are on a calorie surplus, I don't know that you need to take those steps. And additionally, if you have enough time between the meal you're consuming and when you're going to tren or exercise, I don't think that you need to take those steps. So this is going to be a pretty balanced meal for me. Again, I pretty much eaT4 or five pretty similar meals similar from my macronutrent and total calorie perspective. Maybe a little bit more carbohydrates in this meal and my postwork out meal, but nothing crazy. And I am going to have some fat with this meal. So I know people are going to go, what the heck, man, why are you in fat? And your pre-imposed work out meal. It just doesn't matter. I don't know that we need to micro-manage things that much. The broader dietary pattern is probably more important. And then yeah, adherence. So if we're going to do something pretty quick, I'm not going to have to cook hardly anything and I'll take you guys through it. Greed yogurt, two servings of fruit in this one. So we're going to have all stew of banana. So again, I'm trying to get somewhere like ten total servings of fruit and vegetables. So this will be three and four. Maybe close to five because this is a fairly large apple. I'm going to add some honey to the yogurt because I want that. Would you some more oatmeal? Because I like oats and I'll put some peanut butter in there. That'll be pretty good. So the only thing that I actually need to make is going to be the oatmeal. And again, just one strategy that I have for making sure that I'm getting the right amount of carbohydrates in this case. I'm just going to weigh it. IMean, my kitchen doesn't really add too much time. Three servings, 120. There you go, 120 grams. So most of the oats that IMake end up being from the microwave, Tom, the amally disagrees with me on that these are actually quality oats. He prefers the slow cooked on the oven oats. I don't know. I don't have a preference. I don't want to make that big of a mess. So microwave oats for me. Now the reason I put it back on the scales because I'm actually going to measure out my peanut butter that I'm going to put in here. Somebody do one serving. I think nut butter is another sort of untracked calorie dense foods or hard to hard or to track calorie dense foods tend to be problematic for those who are in a calorie-restricted state or trying to lose weight. So they'll just eyeball, like, oh, those two tablespoons and then they'll end up lick in the lid or have an extra half a serving or something. There's just too many calories for them to deal with and actually push them over their calorie goal. So I just put it on the scale. I'm going to measure it out. This is 32 grams for serving. I would do the same thing if I was like, put it on bread or toast or anything like that. I would literally just measure it out. And if that's not something that you want to do, I just, these foods are harder to track than something like almonds where you could literally count out or just weigh the actual mass of the, I take the mass of the almonds based on the serving size. So 32 grams will just do this little spoon. The cool thing is it turns to like this, like, molten peanut butter, which I really do like. So this is tear it out. So that's 24 grams. So I have a little bit more dirty almost there. Perfect. Okay. So I'll add a little bit of cinnamon to this and that'll be the meal. All right. So this is definitely not high class dining, but this is what I'm eating during a normal work day. So you've got the serving of yogurt, a little bit of honey in there, two and a half servings of fruit, three servings of oatmeal, plus some peanut butter. And then yeah, wait about two hours after this before I go tren. And that's totally personal preference. Some people like trening on a full stomach, some people like trening on a empty stomach, but for me, about two hours is a nice sweet spot. All right, just got back home, took a shower, changed. It is time for meal number three, post-workout meal. What I like to do is actually make my last two meals together and then I split them. So we're going to do the bro dinner. This is again, not going to make cooking, but this is just what I eat on a regular basis. We're going to make some chicken using the suvi. We're going to make a rice and the rice maker and then also some vegetables. Make sure that I get my greens in as well. Let's go ahead and make dinner. All right, so the suvi is coming up to temperature. So basically what this is, the water immersion cooker. Mine is from a no-bub, had this thing for like two years. I use it all the time for food prep because it is amazing. So effectively, this keeps this water bath at the exact temperature. I set it to for chicken. I usually like 150-5 degrees in order to chicken the proper temperature for it to be done is like a 165 internal temperature. So what I do is I cook it in here first up to 155 degrees for an hour. And basically it's ready to go at that point to finish. And so how I finish is going to be either on a cast iron, a pan which will do tonight or on a grill or something. Because basically food coming out of the suvi, if you're going to eat it right out of the suvi, it's you want to do like a shredding chicken or something like that because it's missing. Those really tasty bits on the outside of the meat, which is due to what's called the myard reaction. Myard was a French chemist and any event, the cross-linking of the proteins on the surface of the meat effectively make for these really tasty what are called ketosamines. And so in any event you can cook it first here in the suvi which I think for the price, these things are really really amazing. You can really make a lot of cool stuff. Not only just meat, you can make really good sweet potatoes, you can make yogurt, you can make the best poached eggs ever with this thing really, really simply and there's a bunch of cool recipes. But so yeah, we'll cook this for an hour, the chicken for an hour and here once this comes up to temperature, 155 degrees. We'll finish it on the cast iron, skill it in order to get that myard reaction that is nice browning on the actual chicken so it's tasty. And then while that's cooking, we'll also make some rice. So I'll get the rice going, well this is coming up to temperature and then get the chicken ready to cook in here. So for the rice, I just use a rice cooker. That's probably the cheapest rice cooker I found on Amazon again. I've had it for, I don't know, two years or something like that and it still works great. So what I'm going to do is actually make enough rice for this meal and the next meal, it's typically how I do my last two meals of the day. I just eat the same thing twice or similar thing twice. It's a really easy way to go about your food prep if you're kind of doing this on the go, just make a little bit more or double what you're normally going to consume. And so that way you'll have leftovers free To the next meal or the next day, really easy way if you don't want to do a whole bunch of meal prep at once. So we're going to do five and a half servings here, which we'll split that up. I'll probably have two-thirds here, this is a post-workout meal, so I'll have a little more carbs and then one-third of it after it's cooked for the last meal of the day, the fourth meal of the day. So while this is heating up, I'm actually going to get the chicken prepared in that back in the sealed bag. I don't typically weigh the chicken per portion before I cook it. I do it afterwards. I know that most of the ways that I cook it, so I do a sous-vee in the oven, using a cast iron pan or grill in it or whatever the chicken is going to lose about the same amount of weight when I cook it. So I'm looking for about 30 grams of chicken, 30 grams of protein from the chicken, which is going to be just under four ounces of cooked chicken in this manner. So you can use the USDA food database and kind of look up the way you're cooking it and see what the cooked portion is. Otherwise you can weigh it raw and figure out the protein from that. So usually a palm-sized portion, a little palm-sized portion of chicken, cooked chicken is abouT4 ounces, which is like 35 grams. I'm looking for just under that, so just under four ounces, about 3.7 ounces of cooked chicken or so. So in any event, get the chicken ready for this guy here. Alright, so the rice is done cooking. It is going off right now. The chicken, I pulled out of the sous-vee, it is resting over there. It doesn't quite look like it's perfectly done because the outside again is not brown, there's no myriad of reaction, no those tasty ketosamines there, waiting for me so I'm going to finish it on the cast iron grill. Now I've got to add a little butter to it and this actually brings up a good point. What do you do about added cooking fats if you're using them when you're counting your macros? Do you need to weigh it out or how do you kind of calculate these in? So I think here's a good point to make that I'm not necessarily concerned with people being accurate, make it sure they get every gram, every calorie accounted for, as long as they're doing it the same way each time, as long as they're precise. So I want you to do it the same way every single time and that'll allow you to make adjustments based on what you're actually doing. So for me I actually tend to count the cooking fats that I do cook with, even if some of it ends up still in the pan or some of it I don't actually consume. That's just the way I do it but if I didn't count it then when IMade my adjustments to my macros later on, as long as they do the same way each time that would be okay. Alright, so the chickens almost done here. Easy to actually check if the internal temperature is up to the desired amount, so 165 for chicken to use a thermopens. So I'm going to check the internal temp, just stick it in, 165, 165, good, 65, good. Alright, so we're all good. So we'll pull this off, cut it up and then play it for you guys. Alright, so here is dinner number one post-workout meals, four ounces cooked chicken, four servings of white rice, two servings of broccoli, a little bit of teriyaki there in the background and yeah, I feel the same way about sauces I do, about cooking fats. If you need to accurately measure everything because you're trying to limit something like saturated fat, like any other sort of dietary component in particular, then sure, measure them. But otherwise I'm more concerned with precision and consistency than I am with absolute accuracy. So if you're going to count them, just always count them. If you're not going to count them, don't count them and just make sure you're using the same amount when a regular basis. Alright, so this is the fourth meal. I'm going to eat this, read a little bit and yeah, let's do it. So this is the last meal of the day. It's just pretty much like the third meal set for where we've got edamame and a little bit less rice because this is not a post-workout meal. So carbohydrates are a little bit less on this one than they were on the last meal. Let me show you guys, can you see that? We got a little more fat there. So we've got two servings of almonds. We've got two servings of edamame, one and a half servings of rice and then abouT4 ounces cooked of chicken. And then that is all I'm going to eat for today. So I just want to go over some of the kind of finer points of the diet because everyone's going to ask, hey, how do I figure out how to do this myself? Like, okay, where's all this information? So I think the easiest way to start is figuring out your total daily calorie intake. What do you need? So you can use any one of the calculators online, they'll all give you a little bit different numbers. The ones that I prefer are the NIH, the National Institute of Health Body Planner. I'll link that in the description below or the Mifflim St. Geor equation. The NIH Body Planner is really cool. You can plug in a bunch of extra data. It's free and it's based on some really sound science. So that science and some additional data has what's helped build our nutrition template. That'll be all pretty soon, but yeah, it's a really cool little body planner if you put it on expert mode and show some of the advanced controls. So that's fun. But that just gives you a calorie number, right? So from there, you want to figure out if you're actually going to take the steps to kind of track like this, what should your macro's be? So first thing you figure out is your protein intake. And our general recommendation is 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day on the low end, 1.6. And then the high end is 3.1. If you're maintaining weight or gaining weight, you can be towards the lower end, towards the upper end, you'd be actively losing weight and very, very lean already and treninGHard. It's a little like that person, you know, getting ready for a bodybuilding show or somebody who's anoballically resistant. So if they're older than a medical condition or something else that makes them more anoballically resistant, most people get away between that 1.6 to 2.1.6 to 2.5 grams per kilo per day, that would be fine and you can do animal sources that could be plant-based sources as long as you're getting that much protein in per day, I would not micro-manor stats. So that's your protein intake and then the rest of your sort of energy intake. So carbs and fat should be basically up to personal preference. With the caveat that we think you should limit your saturated fat intake to 10% of your total daily calories or less. And if you want more information on that, you should read the science of red meat. So you can take an article that I wrote that's in the description below as well. How many carbs should you have? It's really in personal preference. I think a good place to start would be somewhere in that 3 gram of carbs per kilo per day. You know, if you have that many carbs available to you, you can go a little bit less than that. If you don't, if you're a calorie restricted diet or if you prefer to have more fat to the diet, again, keeping that saturated fat intake kind of rule if you will. In mind, and then of those carbohydrates, we think you should be getting trying to aim for 10 servings of fruit and vegetables per day. It could be 5 and 5, it could be 4 and 6, whatever way you want to slice it. I think today got pretty close. That's pretty normal day. So 8 to 10 servings a day is what I get. So it would encourage you to do the same. And then from there, you need to adjust your nutrition intake based on results. So if you're trying to lose weight, are you losing weight? Or if you're not, you need to reduce energy intake, usually from carbs and fat. If you're trying to gain weight, and then you know, your weekly average weight, for example, is not to go in up. You need to add fuel and get it should probably be carbs and fat. And if you're not into tracking like this, that's fine. There are other strategies that you can employ to get results. They could be meal plans, time restricted feeding windows. So not just one way to get any of that. This is the way that I like. And I think anytime that's always making a really significant change from their baseline diet and they're trying to actively gain weight or lose weight, then you probably need to take the few extra steps as far as measuring quantity. But yeah, this is my diet. Let's actually check. Let's look at my fitness pal. So I use this app. They're not paying me to say this. I don't even buy the subscription. So I'm just using the free one that I've been using for almost a decade now. Let's check out my macro. I got 203 grams, protein, 501 grams of carbohydrates, 100 grams of fat. So anything within plus or minus 5 grams, that's usually, I'm aiming for that's like good adherence. Let's see, 5 or intake. 58 grams, I recommend folks get between 3035 grams of fiber on a minimum. So 58 grams. I did that. A saturated fat intake was well under that 10% mark. I don't get any extra points for being well under 10%, but 10% is kind of like my upper mark. Yeah, I wouldn't really worry about that. And sodium, it's fine. It's just the stuff that's in food. I do add a little bit of salt to my food, but well under the recommendation of being less than 2400 milligrams per day. And yeah, so that is my diet for a day. You guys may ask in. I delivered. Finally, make sure you hit subscribe. Hit the notifications bell so you get hints on all the latest drops. Leave us a comment below. I love to hear from you. And, hey, share this video. When your friends really help grow the channel.

=== FILE: Are Cycle Syncing, Zone 2 Cardio & Ferritin Norms BS？ ｜ Diary of a CEO Review (Part 1) [rdai1V8tt3o].txt ===

 visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits visits diagram rather than what actually plays out in humans in the real world. Today, I'm joined by Dr. Lauren Colenzo-Semple and Dr. Austin Baraki. We'll also get Dr. Lorraine Baraki to weigh in and Dr. Spencer Nadolsky to weigh in as well on part two of this podcast. But in part one today, we're tackling three major topics. The idea that you need to, quote, sync your training to your menstrual cycle, the very confusing claims made around conditioning, zone two cardio, and resistance training, and we're going to talk about anemia. Let's get into it. First up, let's talk about cycle syncing. The claim here is that because hormones like estrogen and progesterone fluctuate, you need to fundamentally change how you train week to week, how you organize your training, et cetera, in order to optimize performance and to avoid harm. Here's a clip from the episode explaining the logic. Should women exercise differently across the menstrual cycle? Dr. So this is the nuance. And this is something if you'd asked me maybe five years ago, I would have said, sure, from a molecular level, we see that there are certain things that happen with estrogen being in isolation for the most part. And then when you have estrogen and progesterone, we see their metabolic shifts, we see their temperature shifts. But the caveat is we don't know if a woman ovulates or not. And I'm sure that Natalie can give some stats about the anovulatory incidences in most women. If we were to understand and know when a woman ovulates, in addition to how she feels across her cycle, then she can individually tailor her menstrual cycle to her training. But for general plan, we can't do that. If you have your own data and you know which days you feel really fantastic, that's where you want to put your higher intensity, your heavier lifting, because you know that you're going to hit those training metrics. What we don't want is for someone to go in to do a high intensity session on days they feel flat, because then they won't hit the metrics that they need to, to get the stimulus we're after. Five to seven days before ovulation. Some women feel really great around ovulation. Some have a transient where they'll feel really awful on and around ovulation and maybe 24 hours later, they feel really fantastic. Most women are variable through the early luteal phase. So if we think about day six to 14, that's when we see women feel really robust and strong and feel like they can take on the world. Their immune system is more prone to taking on virus and bacteria. It's not pro-inflammatory. So you have them working for you. Your core temperature is lower. You can access carbohydrate a lot easier. So you have more availability for fueling to hit high intensities. Then when we see with ovulation, like I said, some women feel really fantastic right around the time of ovulation because of the estrogen surge. Can you just, for our listenership, just again, redefine what cycle syncing is and look, what does the actual evidence say about this? The idea is that some hormone profile would somehow optimize your performance or your adaptations to exercise and therefore a different hormone profile would be worse. So we're trying to capitalize on this hormone state in order to increase our performance or improve our adaptations to exercise. So it sounds cool, right? If we could do that, then that would be exciting. That would be of interest, especially if you're able to time your sport performance or competition in that optimal window, I suppose. It's a bit complicated, but sure. And when we had that conversation on the Nadolskis podcast, Stacey did say, when I was promoting this, I was relying really heavily on mechanistic data. And since then, we have more human subject data. And I was glad that she acknowledged that because it's still been something really heavily promoted by influencers on the internet, despite the fact that we're seeing the hypothesis doesn't really play out when we measure performance or when we adjust the training or when we look at the actual hormone profiles from one woman to the next or from one cycle to the next, even in the same person. So I was encouraged by her seemingly changing her mind and acknowledging the recent data. And now it seems like she's still promoting it. She's still saying you can tailor your nutrition and your training according to your menstrual cycle, but only if you ovulate. And so the issue is not that, oh, this was an overly mechanistic explanation for something that doesn't actually pan out in humans. Instead, it's, well, the reason that it's not panning out in a lot of humans is because there's actually something wrong with them. So if we think about the hypothesis, which is throughout the menstrual cycle, your hormones are fluctuating, they're changing, and therefore that's going to influence how we adapt or how well we perform. That means we need to consistently assess, oh, this is the good, quote unquote, hormone profile. This is the one that we want to capitalize on. And we don't have any data to actually support that hypothesis that if there's something anabolic about estradiol to the extent that we will perform better, or if you bias your volume to, you know, higher intensity or higher volume training, when estradiol levels are higher, that somehow your muscle growth will be larger. Like we don't, we don't have that connection. So it's an interesting hypothesis that we don't see panning out. Now, when we think about the hormone profile of a person with an anovulatory cycle, then you might have slightly lower estradiol levels in some cases. In some cases, the estradiol still peaks, right? So it depends. But what we would, in the literature, how we would define an anovulatory cycle is actually by assessing the extent to which progesterone peaks in the luteal phase. So we're either looking at a progesterone or the, I mean, the best way that it would be to look at an ultrasound. So if, if the progesterone is the bad or hormone profile, if we, if the, the, the issue with the luteal phase is that progesterone is high and that is somehow catabolic. Somehow catabolic or yeah. Then if you have an anovulatory cycle and the peak is lower, then isn't it by that logic actually better to have an anovulatory cycle? Like, I mean, the whole, everything is just falling apart and making no sense. Yeah. It only makes sense if you don't think about it. One thing that strikes me, you know, so there's this like acute hormone hypothesis for post-workout, like, oh, if your testosterone is higher, cortisol is lower, even though it's not, you know, growth hormone, all of these things, you got to optimize the post-workout hormonal milieu. Shout out to Walter Cannon. It's like that, but on the front end, it's like, you got to optimize your, optimize your pre-workout hormonal milieu, you know, and which ultimately in both cases to me seems quite reductionist, like, oh, it's this particular hormone profile and it's got to optimize. But in, you know, the grand scheme of things, the biggest lever, the biggest impact, the biggest driver of your adaptations is your training load. You know, you can, if you want to really reduce it down to something, it's mechanotransduction. You're loading the muscles, you're making them do stuff. And that is a hammer compared to, you know, these hormonal variances that are kind of like, you know, to me relatively, you know, they don't matter. They don't matter that much. And at least, at least based on the current evidence. Now, if there was some plausibility of truth here, we would see it playing out and you wouldn't have to torture the data for it to pan out. You would see like, oh, this is pretty reliable and robust finding. We kind of keep hammering on this and find some mechanisms, you know, but instead Dr. Sims is kind of doing a reverse. He's like, well, here's a mechanism. And despite evidence to the contrary, that this does not appear to be a robust, reliable finding, I'm going to explain that away with another mechanism that I also don't have to support. Does that, is that square with your understanding of kind of where she's at right now? Yeah, because we somehow come away with a pretty simple recommendation, at least in how to execute, right? It's a clear, you should do this, that that's the take home message, or you should not do that, whatever the claim is. But when we actually look at the levels of complexity that we would have to understand in order to say confidently that this is going to be better or that this is really necessary, or even that pulling this lever or adjusting this one thing is going to have such a dramatic effect on the outcome we care about, that we can say, yeah, you know, I'm pointing to this one thing. And that's why even when we look at mechanistic research in general, typically, in order to identify that the mechanism is even involved, you have to do a lot of non-human physiology type adjustments by deleting a gene or overexpressing a gene or creating this model that is by design, this overly simplistic, so that you can say, oh, yeah, this thing is involved. Now, this is why it often doesn't actually translate to human physiology, because human systems are so dynamic and interactive, such that when one thing changes, 10 other things are going to end up changing. So it's so dangerous to just say, well, you know, because theoretically, this might be involved in that, therefore, assume that it's all going to play out predictably in humans. Yeah. And further with the recommendations to train differently, right? Like one of her biggest things, at least that I could ascertain from what she said was that you're not going to have enough energy or you're not going to feel strong enough or be strong enough to execute a particular workout, to hit your metrics, I think was the exact phrase that she used. And I was like, that kind of hints that your training recommendation is only train if you feel awesome. And if you're going to like PR or otherwise, like hit a particular absolute load. But that, again, is inconsistent with not only the human experience, but also just like exercise physiology. It's like a pretty wide range of things that will work, right? As long as it's hard enough and you do enough of it. And so, you know, these concepts of external training load, internal training load is, you know, what you experience from the things that you actually do and exercise. So that's why we auto-regulate, you know, it's like, look, on a day that you feel awesome, great, send it, you know, but you're still going to be capped by RPE or reps and reserve or some, something like that. And on days that you're not feeling it, you know, yes, some weight's going to come off the bar, you're going to do a little bit less, but again, the training stress that you experience is going to be relatively similar. You just, you know, you're adjusting the workout to meet you where you're at. And I guess this idea, like, yeah, only exercise when you feel like you have a bunch of energy and you're going to PR, like, then you just never, you just like never exercise. Like you just. Well, and we're, we're assuming that how you feel is a direct attribution to your hormones, right? So it's reducing you completely to your hormone profile, which frankly, I, you know, I know that everyone is somehow seeming like that this is empowering to women. How is it empowering for, I mean, for decades, we were like pregnant women were told that they shouldn't even move because, you know, your uterus is going to fall out and. Will actually fall out. Yeah. You know, women weren't, weren't allowed to, to exercise like girls weren't allowed to exercise in school because it was, they were afraid that exercise was going to somehow, you know, harm their reproductive function. And then when I was growing up, we would get as, as girls and women, we would get really irritated if you said something or, you know, you're in a bad mood or you got angry about something. And then the, the boys or the men around us would say, oh, you know, you must be on your period. So, no, I'm, I'm allowed to feel a certain way or behave a certain way that has nothing to do with my menstrual cycle. So we've now somehow flipped the script where, what is like kind of clear examples of just, I mean, misogyny slash reducing like this one element of physiology, but it's, but it's women doing it to other women. And women, women crime. Yeah. So I just, I don't get why everyone is, is on board with this when you realize, you know what, there are so many reasons why I might not feel like going to the gym today that have absolutely nothing to do with where I am in my menstrual cycle. Yeah. Not to mention the fact that this doesn't even apply if your, if your hormone profile isn't reflective of this textbook diagram, which it could be if you're on a hormonal contraceptive, which many, many women are, or if you are pregnant or if you are peri or post menopause. And so then what are those people supposed to do? Does it not matter? Like, yeah, yeah, no, it's very, it's, it's an interesting, again, interesting hypothesis and particularly in the, in the face of existing evidence, which you'd expect somebody who is a self-proclaimed, proclaimed expert in this to be aware. So the question becomes, if she is aware yet continues to hold this opinion, it seems a little, a little fraudulent on some level, or is it ignorance and that not really aware of the data. So I'm just going to get, you know, the ostrich thing, bury the head in the sand. Maybe we'll, that's, that's for our, maybe our third podcast weighing in on either fraudulent versus ignorance, but I do want to get, we have to do two ratings. I just came up with this. So this is a little on the fly. So on, there's a one to five BS scale. Okay. So we're going to do two ratings for each one of these, each one of these claims. One, how much BS is it? So one to five. So I'm giving this five bowls on the BS scale. Do you agree? Do you agree with that? I agree. Yeah. It just not supported by human evidence. We have existing human evidence showing this is not the case that you do not need to sync your training with your cycle. There's no advantages to it to date, and it has been investigated. So five bowls on the BS scale. Now harm scale, again, we're still going to use the five, one through five and still use bowls. I'm giving this a three on the harm scale, mainly because like, look, if, if this somehow empowers people to exercise or they feel they do experience some, you know, interesting symptoms reliably around their cycle, and they wanted some way to like codify their workouts and that, that improves adherence. Great. I think the biggest harms here have to do with people, you know, effectively reducing themselves down to hormones, perhaps seeking hormone testing, going down that route, you know? Uh, so I think there's maybe some potential harm there. Mostly this is just going to leave people in my, to my mind, uh, under trained, um, because of the training, the, uh, implication of how you would, uh, modify your training. Uh, what do you think on the, on the harm scale? Yeah, I think that the end result is you train less frequently or you adjust your training so dramatically throughout the cycle that we miss that key of consistency. And without consistent training, we don't, we don't get adaptation. And so we, we need, uh, I don't, is it harmful to have an auto regulatory component of your program? Of course not. If you, and if you do consistently experience menstrual symptoms for a day or two or even longer, then I think it's absolutely fine to adjust or skip a workout, but that is a very different message than saying we need to, on the front end, plan all these different training phases, you know, to theoretically align with some hormone profile. So yeah, I I'll say it's total BS, but, but it's a, it's a three on the harm. Yeah. I think, uh, that's a great point you made that I think with respect to training modifications, they should generally be done reactively because we don't know, you don't know until, you know, when you're in the middle of the workout, right. Or like you, you turn up, uh, but doing it prophylactically makes a lot of assumptions. And there are so many other variables, uh, with respect to performance and how you're going to feel and even how you feel and how that's going to impact your performance. So I think I like that reactive sort of, uh, and if I tell you plan on feeling terrible. Oh yeah. It's no CBO me right. Yeah. So that there there's harm in that too. If the, if the coaches are using this. Yep. Totally. Maybe 3.5 bulls on the, on the harm scale. Then next, we move on to conditioning. Now this part of the episode was a bit of a head scratcher for me because I heard claims that high intensity interval training is the only way to go for women, specifically sprint interval training. And that moderate intensity training is essentially useless or even detrimental. And then zone two is bro science. According to Dr. Sims, let's take a listen. So am I right in thinking the solution if I'm perimenopausal is to do high intensity interval training for short periods of time? So we look at the quality of the training, not the volume of the training. So if we're in our reproductive years, then yes, you can do the moderate intensity stuff because you have estrogen and some of our other hormone feedback signals that are going to drop cortisol. It's going to allow your body to recover and repair. And when you, what makes quality training? What is quality training? So this is your polar. So you have a very specific session that you're going to do. So for Vonda, it's your 30 seconds on as hard as possible, two to three minutes recovery, do that four times, that's your session. So if we're talking about heart rate and the way that your body works, we have zone one, which is just sitting around, you know, like you're, yeah, we're in zone one. Zone two is the bro science kind of thing where you're like, let's, let's work in this zone two area where we're working. I was in zone two when you're talking about menstrual cycle. Okay, there you go. That's it. A little elevated. Your heart rate's elevated. You still a little bit have a conversation. For women, it's good for recovery, stress release. For men, it's good to improve metabolic flexibility. When we're looking at zone three, four, that's the area you want to stay out of, unless you're specifically training for something that requires you to be there. So that would be your half marathons, your endurance races, that kind of stuff. Everyone wants to stay out of zone. Three, four. Let's start with the Sims claim again, Dr. Stacey Sims, one of my favorites regarding, she went really hard in on a sprint intensity training, extolling its benefits along with polarized training. But then she also says that you shouldn't do it all the time. Like, it was kind of weird. Like I imagine her writing a chapter in the beginning of the set, you should do, you know, sprints. And then at the end, but don't do sprints very often because it's hard on recovery. And it's like, I mean, two things can be true, but I'm like, it's interesting. So let's start with this polarized versus pyramidal training organization. So this pyramidal or pyramidal training organization, you got a low, large base of low intensity work, right? Like 65% of it. And then a significant amount of moderate intensity work, about 25% of your training load would be moderate intensity. So that'd be like zones three into the beginning of zone four and a small amount of high intensity work, the later point of zone four and zone five, where I'll polarized training is more 80, 20, like zones one and zone two is 80%. And then 20% of your training distribution would be zone four, zone five, something like that. And she says, you can do moderate training, which would be like zone three and a little bit into zone four when you have estrogen, but otherwise avoid it. This was a strange sort of thing for me, because like, if you're in the endurance space now, granted, I'm decidedly not, I I'm like, uh, I, uh, am endurance curious in that I, I enjoy it. Uh, I know that I have to do it and I'm, I like it more than I used to, but I would never consider myself an endurance athlete, but I've read a lot about this. I've researched a lot about this. I've talked with a lot of experts about this, not to say that I am as smart as they are, but they're all like, look, these are just different ways to distribute your training intensity. You can do a polarized, you can do, uh, it can be a pyramid, whatever you want. They work about the same. Most, most important thing is like, does this work for you? And ultimately that you're going to find that out retrospectively, but she was very hard. Like, no, you have to do polarized training. And I'm like, that seemed kind of strange to me, especially at the exercise volume that the population that she's talking to most people do not do exercise period. Right. And the people that do do exercise aren't doing like 10 hours a week of conditioning where your intensity distribution matters, right? Like if you're just doing the minimum, uh, uh, physical activity guidelines, 150 minutes per week of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, or 75 minutes of vigorous, like this does not matter. You don't need to split up your training 80, 20 zone to zone five. Like it's just not enough. Yes. It's, I mean, if we could sit here and, and debate, it's not, I mean, my understanding is that we could even make it even more complicated and say that, well, no, there's actually not five zones. There's seven zones. And so, um, and, and there are various ways to structure the pyramid. Um, and even in the, in the literature, the, the type of, of polarized that you can do, it might even be high intensity for a couple of weeks and then you're doing low. Like, so there's all these different ways where, where you can, but is this interesting and potentially relevant for a high level endurance athlete? Totally. But what, what, what about everybody else? This whole concept just completely ignores what is your training goal and who are you? Because if we're saying you, you can never do high intensity interval training every day. I think as a general rule, that's probably true because when most people are, are doing an exercise session, they're doing a long enough, hopefully, uh, intense enough session that we, we wouldn't want to necessarily repeat that exact same training session every single day. And that would be true whether we're talking about sprinting or deadlifting, you know, just broadly speaking. However, if you said, can I do five minutes of high intensity interval training every day? Probably. Can I do one set of deadlifts every day? Probably. So when it's, how much are you doing? How intense is it? And what does this look like in the bigger picture of your overall training volume? And if we don't discuss that piece of it, like you're just completely missing the, the, the way that programming works and how frequency fits in as one element. Uh, but it's not the, it's not the variable that is actually something that we need to worry about overall. Like the, the biggest variable is that overall volume. And then we're pulling these levers and we're using frequency as a, a strategy in order to program that volume. Yeah. It is interesting. Like if you, if listeners, if you compare what Dr. Clemson Semple just said and the depths that she had to go to, to explain context and all of the other variables that are at play to try to give you a sense of what she's saying. And then you compare that to the statement. Now you can't do zone five daily because recovery. And it's like, well, how much you could do a minute of zone five every day? Or even, even if we're like having a realistic conversation about what somebody could actually do, right? If it's 75 minutes per week of vigorous intensity conditioning. And somebody was like, I want to do 10 and a half minutes a day of high intensity training just to get, to meet the guidelines. And Sims would say, no, you can't. I'm like, you're missing so many of the other factors that contribute to training load. So you're just talking about intensity in isolation without volume, without the modality being selected, you know, all sorts of stuff and even defining like what you're talking about. And so to your point, missing the population that this is going to be largely consumed by. It's got 3.1 million views as I checked yesterday. Largely not to high level endurance athletes, I would suspect mainly because that represents a small portion of the population anyway. Right. And they're not, they don't really care about the training advice here. So it's mostly gen pop folks, which is, which is fine. You aren't really exercising enough. And then this is the take home and it's unclear because it's just a little quick statement rather than like context. And I'm like, if you're in this forum, you have to come prepared with like, if I'm going to say this, I need to give some context and some background and have an actionable sort of step. This is not actionable for most people. If what a person took away from this was I got to do polarized training. And that means I need to do sprints, which she says, you know, 30 seconds on three minutes off four rounds, that's a workout. And I'm like, if that's the takeaway, you just missed this opportunity to positively affect millions of people's lives. And you confuse them polarized pyramid, you know, which type, like, come on, bro. I think we also, the part of the, part of the discussion was that everybody should be lifting weights. Everyone on the panel agreed that you should be lifting weights. And when we talk about lifting weights, we don't use any kind of heart rate zones. Like that's not, that's not language that we're using in the lifting space. So, however, there is such thing as high intensity or high load resistance training. So where does that fit into this recommendation? Because we're supposed to be lifting weights, but we're not allowed to do high intensity interval training. Is that only sprinting that we can't do every day? And how do we, like, so if you're, if you're going to say, I'm speaking to all women in general, and we need to be lifting weights, heavy, right? High load training. And then we also need sprint interval training, but we need to be very careful about the frequency at which we perform either of these things with no discussion for total volume. What's my training program? Yeah, exactly. Yeah. You can't do anything. It's like, it's like you have like a low carb or a low fat or a low fat person. They're both debating at the end, they come to some agreement. It's like, so what do I eat now? And they're like, I don't know. Can't eat anything. Can't eat anything. Drink water. It was also weird. She got the zones wrong. Also. Yeah. She's like zone one where it's sitting around. And I'm like, so no. I mean, there are multiple different models for exercise intensity, three zone, five zone, seven zone that you alluded to earlier. Zone one is like the start of exercise. Just it's, it's definitively exercise. Most places, if it's a Siler's original work or whatever, it's like 50% of your VO two max is like the start of zone one. It might be like 50, 55% of your max heart rate, maybe 60%, depending on who you read. It's not sitting around. Right. And if you even want to go to like the physical activity guidelines, all right, it's gotta be greater than, than, you know, three Mets, four Mets. Well, one Met is sitting around. So it's gotta be, it's, it's not sitting around. And then she says zone two is the bro science kind of thing. If we're going to loosely define bro science, it's a recommendation that isn't supported by the real science. Right. So it's like what you see in the gym and then you tell your bros, and then you guys are doing this pro program. That's probably fine, but you know, it's so like, you're doing it for a reason that makes no sense. And that's bro science. Yeah. Of like all the evidence we have on exercise, like zone two, are you saying zone two is bad or it doesn't exist or that there's like, do you think she was thinking of Huberman when she said it? Like she was like, she just bros, like just right to Huberman, like that image popped in her head, like, or atia, I guess he likes zone two. Yeah. Love zone two. Yeah. I don't think zone two is like this specialized exercise intensity for conditioning that you have to do it to maximize your health benefits from exercise. It's a fine training intensity to use. And, you know, to a Tia's and, you know, to a lesser extent, Huberman's point or people who talk about zone two, the good part about it is you can do a lot of it without it, you know, blowing you up. It's just not very fatiguing. That said, if somebody is only doing, you know, an hour and a half, two hours a week of conditioning, I say only because you're not quite getting to the physical activity guideline minimums there yet, but we're just decidedly not talking about endurance athletes. You don't have to do zone two to prevent being over fatigued. In fact, I suggest probably a little higher intensity because you're not doing enough volume at that point. And so you could probably get a little benefit if it was a little harder. But yeah, bro science, if you just decided to like define it as most people do, like just some thing, it's not optimal, not really evidence-based. It's not the reason why you're doing it or saying it doesn't really make sense, but you do it anyway. And it's like maybe with gym rats. Sure. I don't know that zone two qualifies. I think if what would have been a much better message is again, clarify who we're talking to. What's your goal? Because if your goal is to run a marathon, you're probably going to do a lot of zone two, right? Because your goal is run far and you can't sprint a marathon. So we're going to need some zone two in there. Now, if you're just starting out with exercise, maybe zone two is a good place to start because if we're going on a run, then we want to make sure our running mechanics are good before we start sprinting. With the caveat that you can do moderate or high intensity training using a variety of modalities. And I would say for somebody who's new to exercise, running wouldn't be my pick. All that is to say we're identifying an audience, we're identifying a goal, and then identifying the strategy. And so the strategy would be, am I using a stationary bike or am I going for a run or am I using a rowing machine? And then do I prefer to do something at a lower intensity for a longer period of time? Or do I want that time efficiency and I'm going to get those intervals done so I can move on to the rest of my day or to the other part of my workout? I think any personal trainer would tell you this. So we're having this conversation that seems so obvious. We need goal-oriented training that's going to help people move more in a way that they will do consistently and it'll be good for their health. Or we're going to really optimize all of these things for this athlete for their performance goal. Like, why are we missing all of that very, very obvious context when you're spreading this message to millions of people who, 75% of whom aren't exercising? Right. Yeah. It is interesting. It's like, it makes me think that she doesn't coach people or like it has not coached people for a while or like interacted with people in this way. Because as you know, when you, in a professional sense, if you're in the clinic, if you're in the research world, whatever, you end up developing ways to communicate effectively to others, wherever your niche or professional lives. And so, you know, I can tell on this podcast, the physicians, for example, when they are hard in the medicine, talking about anemia, for example, or like, you know, very things that are not really super related to the wellness industry. So, you know, leaving aside hormone replacement therapy, leaving aside exercise, leaving aside nutrition, the medicine stuff, they're pretty good. And we'll have Dr. Austin Baraki, like talking about the ferritin thing, but pretty good because these are things they actually talk with their patients about regularly. And it's very central to their training, right? How they were educated and they got to stay up on it because it's important. But when they start going away from that, things they don't actually do regularly talk about exercise and, you know, maybe they are having these conversations about exercise, but there's certainly outside the area of expertise, things get weird. They get real weird. And you'll notice in this entire, they got five and a half hours of this podcast, right? Edited. So it was probably longer. That's what I'm saying. At no point do they run through here, the exercise variables, frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, progression. Here's how we would manipulate, you know, and here's what we mean by intensity. Here's what we mean by volume, you know, whatever, none of that stuff. And I'm like, so you don't actually just talk about exercise programming, exercise prescription regularly with people. I don't think you do it very often. And then when you do talk about it, you get very basic definitions wrong. Zone one is sitting around. And so to me, all of this says is like, I just don't think you do this on a regular basis, which calls into question like, why are we going to you as the expert? But before we go down that tangent, hold on, I got something for you. Dr. Vonda Wright, then after this starts taking digs on classes. She's like, these people are doing this Ignite class and it's moderate intensity. And so apparently she agrees that polarized training is good and should avoid this moderate intensity, although nobody defines what that is. Especially in the case of like a circuit training class, because this is lifting weights and not cardio. But anyway, she says you need high intensity for change, but there's a risk of injury up there. So then you need low intensity for recovery and sprint interval training recomposes the body. So she's talking about weight loss, body recomposition. Yeah. What's your take on Dr. Vonda right here? You know, I mean, I think we can have a broader discussion on, on why it's important to stay in your lane because for some reason, when, when people, when anyone writes a book, it's like the publisher insists that they include an exercise and a nutrition chapter, even though they are not an exercise or a nutrition person. And I guess that means because they sell more books that way. But you end up with these insane recommendations that are somehow novel. And so her thing is going to be, you know, the, the, we have to do all this jumping, but when we think about, again, the exercise we're doing and the goal, which we always have to go back to, right? Is it weight loss? Or are we just training for overall health? Because I thought we were just saying these are broad exercise recommendations for women. And now she's throwing weight loss or body recomposition in there. And we very clearly know that in order for us to gain muscle, we want to recommend resistance training because sprint, sprinting, maybe if you've never done any exercise at all, and you do a little bit of sprinting, you'll gain a little bit of muscle and then that's it. So this is not a good recommendation for muscle growth. And when we have a conversation about weight loss related goals, we need to address how many calories you're eating. We need to address the diet because when we start engaging in an exercise program, we typically start to eat a little bit more. And then we have potentially some reduction of meat. And then we end up just not losing the amount of weight we would anticipate from or calculate from this energy that we're expending during exercise. And we don't, you don't have to put that in, right? You, we didn't have to put that whole explanation in there. That's fine. But I would have preferred the message be, we should all be exercising for, you know, for overall health. But if the goal is muscle growth, and that should be one of the goals, we need to lift weights and it needs to be challenging and etc. If the goal is to lose body fat, then we're probably going to need to address that with the diet. Sprint interval training, recomposing the body, meaning you're going to gain muscle and lose fat is it's a highly inefficient, inefficient recommendation for somebody with that goal. Yeah. Yeah. And ultimately, not likely to be successful even in the moderate term, and certainly not the long term, it's just modest changes, particularly if you're untrained initially, but then long term, like, I mean, just exercise, generally speaking, pretty modest effects on weight management, overall body composition, certainly with resistance training, definitely improved can prevent weight regain. And there's a lot of also obviously weight independent benefits that we should probably be celebrating rather than just weight management. But in the context of just like weight loss, body fat loss, whatever, like, most people would would not look would see the results from exercise, generally speaking, and say, that's not very compelling, a very compelling reason to exercise. I'm like, Yes, I agree. I agree. The diet is something that we should people to people don't understand this. A lot of people don't understand this, because they do exercise for weight loss. And as you said, they are kind of disappointed, because it feels like I'm not I'm working hard, I'm doing the thing, and I'm not getting the results. Why not? And so, and we can explain the metabolic adaptation or why, you know, just expending energy doesn't necessarily equal weight loss, even if you're counting all the calories and adjusting it. But on the general message is, we want to make recommendations that are as helpful as possible for people to reach their goals and feel successful, because then they'll stick with it. Otherwise, they'll just give up because they'll feel like, well, I'm working hard, and this isn't even doing anything for me. Well, that's why we need to explain. If weight loss is the goal, then we need to address the diet. And you should be exercising for this host of other reasons. And so for if people understand that, then you're setting yourself up for some realistic expectations. And that it what that's doing people a favor to honestly communicate that. And maybe she doesn't know, I think probably she genuinely doesn't know, in which case, she shouldn't be talking about it. Well, that's that's the whole thing, right? It's like, again, when when these, the the women on the panel are in their definitive area of expertise, and I'm taking Stacey Sims out of this equation, because I'm actually I'm actually not sure. Yeah, exactly. But but the other women physicians who have training, board certified, when you put them right in their niche, generally, they do a reasonable job, not only at getting the science right, but also in communicating that in a way that is accessible. Because again, they do this on a regular basis, right? When they get outside of that area, not only is the science wrong, but the way that they're trying to communicate it, it falls apart, because they don't do this regularly, right? They're not having these conversations with patients. And if they are, Lord, help them, I don't, I don't know what to say. Yeah, it's just it's just really bad. I genuinely did not hear any good advice about exercise in the entire podcast. That was not very generic, like, women should lift weights. And I'm like, Yep, we agree. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, Okay, but but what about like, how? Okay, so let's let's rate this. Let's give this some bowls here. All right. So this is our exercise section conditioning specific. I'm going to give this five bowls on the BS meter, mainly because like at every step of the way, it's just wrong. Like just definitions are wrong. The way that you're talking about prescription is wrong, that stuff you're leaving out is important. So that's also wrong. You agree? If it's a five out of five on the BS scale. I agree. And I'm going at least a 4.5, if not a five on the harm. Because when we think about overly complicated recommendations, where we don't even understand why we're doing the thing that we're supposed to be doing, or how to execute this recommendation, this is putting up another barrier for people who aren't exercising to just start doing something. And I wish people who have go on these big platforms, you know, you have hours just to convey a message. Why can't we say for the majority of people, we need to find something that we will do consistently week in and week out for years to come. That's, you know, one of the best things you can do for your health. Let's just all say it. Yeah, yeah, just lead with that. Lead with that. Yeah. Yeah, I think if you if you factor in like opportunity cost, like the time that they spend talking about stuff that is either wrong or definitively does not matter, right, and it's not actually helpful, then yeah, maybe five, five or six out of five on this on the harm scale. Yeah, you had an opportunity, you fumbled, and then further added in a bunch of stuff that was incorrect. And so if somebody were to take this information, they would do, I guess, only some sprint intervals. Apparently four is the number, according to Dr. Sims, they would lift weights, but unclear how or how often, but they would not do any moderate intensity, continuous conditioning, they would not do any low intensity steady state, because again, you know, you don't need to do that. You just sitting around that zone one. So you don't need to you don't need to do anything. It's just sit around a little bit. That's so what I so and then they on top of that, if you added that with the the cycle syncing, then they would, you know, just do less. So under training, just sprint intervals, plus weightlifting, like I'm here for the weightlifting, I guess I just would be curious as to what that prescription would actually look like, because that never happened in the entire five and a half, whatever hours. And they never talk about like, so in general, like, here's how many days per week you should be lifting. Here's how many, you know, exercise you should pick it like just any sort of organization, right about that. Whereas I would say, look, you should be lifting at least two days a week should all the major muscle groups of the body for a couple sets that feel kind of hard. Yeah, I find that it made it harder to listen to as well, because there was so much bouncing around. And so it wasn't like, okay, let's talk about lifting weights. And then, you know, we're going to start here and talk about it for 10 minutes or 20 minutes or however long we need to talk about it, and then kind of put a button on it for the listener and say, here's the takeaways, and then move on to the next topic. Instead, it was just kind of bouncing back and forth between the discussions about hormones and then the discussions about exercise, which overlapped with, are we lifting for general health, or do we have these endurance goals, or do we care about muscle, but then what about hormones, and then bone? And it was very, very difficult to follow. And I don't know if we can blame the guests necessarily for that, because they're not responsible for how the show was organized. But I do think if you're communicating something as important as exercise, then it is on you to frame it in a way that people understand, what am I doing, and why am I doing it? Yep. Yep. I agree. It was very challenging to follow this. Finally, we want to address a medical topic that came up, anemia and iron deficiency. Now, the guests on the episode discussed how the norms of ferritin have changed and suggested that the medical establishment is accepting sicker populations as normal. So I called in Dr. Austin Baraki to weigh in on this topic. Let's hear from him. Hey, I'm Dr. Austin Baraki, and I'm happy to be joining this breakdown of the recent diary of a CEO conversation. The clip you're about to see focuses on women's iron status and iron deficiency, which is extremely important in women's health. So let's watch the clip, and then I'll provide a response. Anemic, with iron deficiency being the leading cause. Hmm. Have you noticed the norms have changed? So it depends on who you read. Yeah. Again, you know, when you're looking at male normative curves versus what, you know, we tend to accept lower levels for a female, but now that we're looking at performance and, you know, looking at other factors besides just what is this ferritin level, there's a lot of great new research coming out that we are looking at this differently and that we're in our clinic, we are looking for 60 to 100 for a ferritin level to be considered optimal. Very different than, you know, the baseline for, you know, keeping you out of out of a hospital versus you functioning at your absolute best. Yeah, because the norms that often get measured for us. Because they tripled, right? They were 15 and then they went up to 40. So now they're saying 20 and above is normal. And when I look at a lot of women who are sitting 20 to 30, they can't get help. They cannot get help. And it's like, whoa, it was maybe four or five years ago. If you were below 50, then we would look to get help. But now with the norms that have shifted with the sicker population, we can't get women help unless they are below 20. So when we say normal, I think this is important for everybody watching or listening. Normal in medicine means common, not non-pathological. Okay. Not bad, you know, doesn't mean it's not bad. And so norms shifting, meaning we're getting sicker as a population and we're willing to accept lower levels, although they're not optimal for health. The lab reference range, what they say when you get your blood work drawn and you see the reference range, is based on population averages. And so if the population is more anemic, this is going to accept lower levels being normal, even though they're by no means optimal. And I think that's one thing we all talk about is, well, how are you feeling? Your symptomology, what do we see? And you have to interpret blood work in context of the whole person and what is happening. And that is one issue we do see with getting your own blood work drawn or these online companies, when nobody's interpreting it or helping you interpret it on the other end, you see something that is in a normal range, but it's not at all optimal for you. And it could be the reason why. False assurance. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So despite a lot of controversial things that might have been said in the rest of the episode, I actually mostly agree with the core claims being made here with a few caveats that I'll explain. So as mentioned, ferritin is the body's primary iron storage protein. It's also the preferred lab test for assessing iron status. Much more accurate than measuring iron levels in the blood and a lot less painful and invasive than the gold standard test of doing a bone marrow biopsy to measure a person's iron stores. There are some caveats and nuances to interpreting ferritin levels in practice, especially among patients with inflammatory conditions, those with liver disease, kidney disease, but we'll set those aside for now. The bottom line is if your ferritin is low, you're probably iron deficient. The question though is what is low? So this turns out to not be so simple in practice. Ideally, we can find the sweet spot of where we set this cutoff that gives us the best diagnostic accuracy while minimizing the risk of both false positives and false negatives. Lab tests should, as mentioned in the podcast, also always be interpreted in the context of the person's clinical presentation in order to guide our management strategy. So even if you do have a low ferritin with some iron deficiency, it is often not just as simple as just take some more iron. Now the core issue addressed in this podcast, and one that I actually fully agree with, is that many labs use a lower limit of normal for ferritin that is far too low. You'll often see this cutoff at 12 nanograms per milliliter, 15 nanograms per milliliter, or micrograms per liter. Now why is this? Many lab ranges are set by looking at the distribution of values seen among an apparently healthy population, meaning those without active ongoing signs or symptoms of disease, and arbitrarily setting the cutoff at the lowest 2.5% of values. The problem though is when we examine these same populations and we do that bone marrow biopsy test, we find that 30%, 40%, upwards of 50% of apparently healthy young women, the same types who would be included in these samples, have completely depleted iron stores in their bone marrow. No iron stores. This is most often due to a combination of menstrual blood losses and insufficient dietary intake to keep up with those menstrual blood losses. So if you set a normal cutoff based on descriptive statistics, rather than based on physiology, you're essentially normalizing deficiency. There's actually no physiologic reason why the normal range for ferritin should be fundamentally different between men and women. And so we need to understand iron status on a spectrum. Most people are familiar with the concept of iron deficiency anemia. This is most well recognized, but it also represents the end stage of iron deficiency. When your iron stores are so depleted and have been for so long that it's affected your ability to make red blood cells leading to a low hemoglobin level. But non-anemic iron deficiency is where you have low iron stores, but your hemoglobin might technically still be normal. Our body is quite good at stripping iron out of other tissues like our muscles to prioritize it for blood production. This state is often missed or it's disregarded. And this unfortunately leads to undertreatment. We start to see the consequences of iron deficiency well before people become anemic, if we know what to look for. This suggests that the lower limit of normal is probably higher than most standard lab reference ranges suggest. For example, low iron stores can impair exercise performance and can contribute to symptoms like fatigue. We have multiple double-blind, randomized, controlled trials that have shown that women who are non-anemic but have ferritin levels below 50 can experience significant improvements in their fatigue, their VO2 max, and even their exercise performance when they take supplemental iron. Iron deficiency is also strongly linked to restless leg syndrome as a result of low iron stores in the brain. Supplementation can help, with some evidence suggesting an even higher threshold of at least 75 for this condition. And finally, studies using advanced biomarkers find that the body's methods to compensate for iron depletion don't actually return to their baseline non-deficient levels until ferritin gets at least to 50 or higher. Now, my only point of disagreement with the podcast is the framing that we are progressively more accepting of lower levels, quote, as the population gets sicker. They seem to imply that we are setting new cutoffs based on an increasingly sick, increasingly anemic population, allowing these levels to drift further and further downward, which is just not accurate. While it is true that many reference ranges are set on a sort of convenient sample of an, quote, apparently healthy population, the actual lower limit cutoffs of ferritin have been getting increased in recent years, not decreased due to a sicker population. While the WHO still maintains a general cutoff of just 15 for apparently healthy individuals, in 2020, the American Gastroenterological Association increased their cutoff to 45. The American Society of Hematology currently uses a cutoff of 30 and suggests that you can use 50 for people with signs of iron deficiency or ongoing risk factors like ongoing menstrual blood losses. So while this area is still evolving, these limits are not dropping lower due to a sicker population. As we recognize this, we're actually increasing them as we learn more about the physiology. And so while one side might frame issues with these lab cutoffs as accepting of a more sick population, the other and unfortunately more conspiratorial side tends to frame these things as we're just changing cutoffs so we can sell more drugs. We saw this with changes to recommended blood pressure cutoffs, and blood cholesterol cutoffs. Now it wasn't true in these situations either, but that's a discussion for another day. Sometimes you just can't win. The takeaways here are pretty straightforward. Don't accept a lower limit of say 18 as normal, especially if the person is experiencing symptoms that could be suggestive of iron deficiency, whether or not they have anemia. For most people, using a ferritin lower limit of 50 is reasonable. You could do a lot worse than the recommendation from the podcast of aiming for 60 to 100. I, in my practice, typically use oral or IV iron, intravenous iron, and treat to a target of at least 50 in general and over 75 for those with restless leg syndrome, while also evaluating and treating for the potential causes of iron deficiency, like blood loss or intestinal diseases, absorption problems, et cetera. Ultimately, I do think that we should be testing patients and women in particular more broadly for iron deficiency. We should interpret results based on symptoms and physiology and treat iron deficiency earlier and much more aggressively. So thanks for tuning in, and I look forward to your thoughts and any further discussion on this topic. And that brings us to the end of our review for part one. Now, our goal with this episode wasn't to be negative, but more to provide a filter. There's so much information coming at you from influencers and even credentialed experts on large platforms. So it's vital to distinguish between a mechanism like a hormone spike in isolation and an outcome that actually matters to your life and training, like the amount of strength and endurance gained from exercise or your bone mineral density or having a fall. Now, if you want to train for health, find something that you can do consistently. If you want to get strong, lift weights. And if you're feeling fatigued, we shouldn't overlook anemia. We should still train and auto-regulate it, but don't let the fear of, quote, cortisol or hormone matching keep you from moving your body. Big thanks to Dr. Lauren Kalenzo-Semple and Dr. Austin Baraki for their expertise today. If you found this helpful, please leave us a review and share it with a friend who might be confused by the noise. For Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. Thanks for listening. We'll catch you next week for part two. We'll catch you next week.

=== FILE: At What Age Are You The Strongest？ [NqxKtTubqaQ].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Next question. This is actually a long question that I got. I try to make thesEQuestions as generalizable as possible so the most amount of people can get something out of it versus one individual person says, I have this very specific case getting answer my question. That's probably better suited for a console because there's probably more information than we need to get anyway. The thrust of this question was, what would be your estimation at what age that I will set my all-time one rep max PRs? With the idea of being like, I am this certain age, this guy was in his 30s for example. He was recently started trening and he's like, you know, how long till I hit my lifetime best PRs. And like, is that different from, you know, based on his gender, right, man versus woman? Is it different based on his age? Like, if he was started earlier, is there a different trajectory? And the way I kind of answered this question is, I don't know how long that's going to take for you to reach your peak performance, but it is likely to be many, many years after you start trening, unless something else outside of your control happens. Yeah. So, like something tragic, the car accident or you're otherwise stop trening and, you know, are unable to actually continue on your upper trajectory. I don't think that there's a big difference in age or gender as far as what that trajectory looks like. I would expect people who are outside of the exception if someone was very, very young, like, pre-pubescent. I wouldn't expect like that trajectory to look the same as somebody who started, you know, in their mid teens. Sure. But I would expect a similar trajectory from somebody in their mid teens or twenties as somebody in their forties who, they both started trening at the same time. The absolute amount of weight that they end up lifting may be different, but the relative improvement that's probably going to track similarly, and doesn't really matter if they're a matter woman either, at least as far as me predictinGHow they're going to do. And just, because I always have to drop David Ricks in here. There's lots of people that we could drop, like him as one, as one very good example. 58 years old, currently holds the all-time world record squat at 700, and I think it's 7-11 or 17 or something. I'm the only 25th of my life. I'm the only one who's been here. At the 93 kilo weight class, and I've seen him set or attempt a world record squat every year, seemingly since 2013 or his 53. And it's like, he's a machine. Yeah, he's, like, he's just a machine. Actually, that math doesn't really check out. If he's 53 so next, he's 52 59. Anyway, you guys can do the math at home. You have to calculate. We got too much technology here. But, but the whole point is like, I don't know where the peak is, and then where that falls off. Like, is it in your forties? If you started in your 20s, for example, is it in your 50s? At some point, it's going to happen. It just hasn't happened for that particular individual, and I don't know that I could predict that for somebody. Yeah, I think anybody who, you know, it's perfectly reasonable if you're watching this to hear the reference today and be like, yeah, well, he's a freak. He's all the way at one end of the bell curve of the population as far as strength content. And it's like, sure. But the point is that any one person could have submitted this question, and we cannot predict in advance where they are on the thing. Yeah. So you can go and you can find studies. You can find, you know, normative data on this, descriptive data sets that say, you know, in general peak strength for, you know, for men, because they're going to sex stratified is going to be in their mid 30s or something like that. And it's like, cool. Now, you're a person. You're not the mean of that study, sure. Yeah. Right. And so that number may be problematic for you, you know, because maybe you just started trening, you know, in your mid 30s, and you're like, well, shit, there's no way now, because I'm already past this peak, and it's like, well, not really because that may not be you. Maybe you turn out to be the freak. And you should probably tren as if you are the freak until proven otherwise. I still see other things. Yeah. Yeah. You may not have identified the right strategy to do so if you haven't. Yeah. IMean, we we talked about this all the time with my own, you know, start in in strength trening. I had a relatively unremarkable, you know, the interface of trening, and it took, you know, several more years, like, we you've you've referenced your, like, first year of trening before a few times, right? So your first year was decidedly freaky. Sure. Right. Pulled 550 or something in your first year of trening. That was definitely not the case for me. It took me, I don't know, maybe more like three years or something like that. And some people takes a decade. Some people, they're never able to do it. But then interestingly, despite that market difference in our first year of trening, now our numbers are like, extremely similar, like within a, within a couple percent of one another on all three lifts. And so nobody could have predicted that from the way things started. And yeah, IMean, it remains to be seen what happens in the next decade. I'm sure. Yeah. And I guess the final point here is like, I don't know that it matters what your peak strength ends up being from like a health perspective. I know that it doesn't. Yeah. So actually, this is kind of a second. It's not part of this question. But we were asked, like, you got to come up with some strength standards for health, right? Yeah. And it's like, in both Austin, I were like, no, because we can't. And I keep thinking about this question. And my thought is like, I actually don't know that if it matters, if you actually get it's markedly stronger, because I actually think the participation in the exercise itself is probably like the more useful thing. It'd be very difficult to not actually gain strength, just by like participating. But what I'm getting at is that if somebody's like, I gained 20 percent on my squat any year and another person gained 2 percent on their squat any year. I'm like, I don't, that doesn't tell me whether there's any like health difference there based on your exercise participation. So I think they're about the same. If somebody was like, I, and I could go further, 100 percent, you doubled your squat versus 2 percent. I'm like, all I know for sure is that you can squat more than this person. But if you guys spent the same amount of time in the gym, same like exercise duration, etc. Like, I feel like the health benefits you're getting out of trening are pretty similar. I, and then the programming and some other like outside the gym considerations like nutrition and sleep and stuff like that are going to really help me figure out like who's actually going to gain more muscle because I don't know that the person who's gained 100 percent on their squat actually is gained more lean body mass, which I also also think is important to like this health thing. So my strength standards like how strong do you actually have to get to be healthy? It's like, I think you just have to try. But you know, you just have to be actively participating in this stuff and to the extent you need to hit a certain number, I don't have those numbers. I'll, I refuse. So like, if those numbers, because I don't think that they're meaningful, they're literally just made up and have no evidence. I could tell you a hand grip dynamometer value that you need to achieve, right? And it's like, yeah, there are certain, if you look at like the sarcopenial literature, there are strength and lean body mass standards that you'll see described in terms of how strong your hand grip strength should be how much appendicular, you know, meaning lean body mass on your arms and your legs that you should have. But those are also correlational relationships. So it's like this correlates with better outcomes. We have less evidence on, okay, I'm going to take somebody with this lower hand grip strength to this standard of hand grip strength. And all of a sudden, thinking they're going to get much better. I do think, you know, we've talked about this when people were at about being non-responders to trening and we've cited some of those papers on the more outcomes you measure from trening, the fewer apparent non-responders there are, meaning that everybody improves in some fashion, just from participation in exercise or resistance exercise in particular. There probably are some health outcomes that are more heavily mediated by actually getting stronger or increasingly body mass, things like bone mineral density, things like that will be like maybe fall risk, fracture risk, although even then I imagine that, you know, things like fall risk, probably can improve just from like neuromuscular skill and performance, independent of actual strength and lean body mass. So this stuff gets kind of complicated. I think we will probably end up having to provide some sort of a standard, but I would be more willing to provide a standard in terms of relative strength and commitment. So a percent improvement from baseline and basically saying it would be reasonable to tren somebody in order to achieve this relative improvement from baseline rather than saying everybody needs a squat, 225 or something like that because that's definitely not the case. Right. Yeah. And then the idea would be if you are not attaining this relative improvement, it's either underdosed or the wrong formulation. Yeah. So to me, it's more just like if you didn't actually get stronger, it's a programming issue rather than like, you know, some willpower or like in-her effect in somebody cool.

=== FILE: Avoiding DOMS, Sudafed, Food Matrix, and Training on Ozempic [HINYe3UA8Og].txt ===

 cschoprilsch, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril csch of dedicated Ask Me Anythings, Ask Us Anythings with Dr. Austin Baraki. We do those routinely. You get early access and expanded samples of our new programs, exclusive content like articles, videos, and more. Plus, you get to support the work that we do here at Barbell Medicine, all for about the price of a cup of coffee. You can find out more at barbellmedicine.supercast.com. I've linked that in the description below. On the other end of the line, we have the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, doing all right. Routine day in the hospital today, and that's about it. So ready to tackle some questions. Now, if you're listening to this, you can't see this, but if you're watching on YouTube, you've already picked up that Austin and I are apparently matching today. We have the same color shirt on. It was unplanned. We did not coordinate our outfits, but apparently we're team green today. Sometimes that happens. The two hulks. Before we get into this podcast, a few announcements, we still have our two-day live in-person seminar for our pain and rehab content. That's May 17th through 18th in Buffalo, New York. I've linked that in the description below. It is worth CEUs, continuing education units for physical therapists, for athletic trainers, personal trainers, et cetera, strength coaches. You guys can all use that. If you're just a person who's interested in the type of content, it'll be useful for you in your life. You check that out. Again, that's coming up this, I guess it's still spring in Buffalo, New York. We also just released our second generation strength two and strength three templates, a lot of cool programming stuff in there. If you're in the market for a new program, you can check that out. You can try it for free on our app, which is also free. You get free week sample, or you can do that through our website if you just don't want it on your phone. Do either way there. Then there is a new training video of me training my dad. I released the first one about a week ago, and I released the last one. When this goes up, well, it'll be earlier this week, so you guys can check that out. It's my dad deadlifting and doing some step-ups post-knee replacement and a few other stuff. Other things going on. Any announcements that you want to make, Dr. Baraki? No. Very legit that your dad is squatting and deadlifting and stepping up on the knee. He's feeling good overall, I take it? Oh, yeah. He's loving it. Loving life. He's just a character in the gym. Just imagine the most influencer-y gym that you've ever been to. As you've trained in my gym, you know that to be the case. It's pretty high up there. We got the lights. It's just a minefield of tripods at the gym, but I like it. The equipment is great. The people are great, whatever, but Leonard is just, I feel like he's overwhelmed, overstimulated. Just too much going on. Yeah, that's understandable. Yeah, and he always keeps asking me, he's like, what is that person doing? I'm like, I don't know, Dad. Let's just focus on the task at hand. You get another set of four. Come on. Yeah, that's cool. I had a patient encounter in the hospital this past week where I got to demonstrate and do a little bit of the usual motivational interviewing around strength training for the patient because it was an older woman who came in with pretty significant hypercalcemia. Her blood calcium level was around 16 or so, which is pretty high. She had symptoms from it. We got that all fixed up with some medicines, but it was the result of essentially a side effect of a different treatment that she had been trialed on for the treatment of her osteoporosis. And so that fed into a subsequent conversation of, well, what else are we doing besides using medicines for osteoporosis and kind of doing a little bit of education around that and getting her on board with the idea of putting some force through her bones to get them to adapt and that it's okay to do that. One of the things that I feel I've become pretty passionate about around the topic of osteoporosis in particular is how it's discussed because a lot of times patients are told things like their bones are brittle or prone to fracture and things like that. And that's partially true, but not in the way that we want people to understand it rather, you know, in terms of what we certainly want to increase the bone density and robustness of your bones, but they are not brittle, quote unquote, to the point where it is unsafe for you to exercise or to, you know, perform loaded activities like strength training. And so the way that we discuss these topics with patients is pretty important. So I use that as another important teaching opportunity because it's pretty easy for us to just casually say things like that, that end up planting seeds in patients' minds that, oh, they told me that, you know, my bones are like paper mache and if I do anything that they're going to, you know, break, which is not accurate. So another important aspect of communication and a good teaching case this past week. Your bones are under loaded, have been, yeah, need more loads. Yeah. So you want to talk about my hip? You want to? Yeah. What's going on with it today? And do you want to fill the people in on the past few days? Yeah. So I started prepping for, if you guys, this is your first Barbell Medicine podcast, just skip the next like three minutes. This is not important to you. This is a personal story. Um, I've been preparing to do a national level powerlifting meet, um, because I'll be masters this year. And I thought, oh man, chance for glory. Let's go. Um, not be like competing at nationals is one thing, but the idea was, oh, maybe I'd have a chance at actually competing to win and subsequently go to worlds. That's like the whole thing. And unfortunately this is on a yearly thing, a yearly basis. So you have to do well at nationals to qualify, to go to worlds. And then obviously you still want to be strong at worlds. I, when I signed up or, you know, initially I had been having this off and on kind of hip pain, just non, you know, non-localized widespread. Hey, it hurts at the bottom of the squat, not every squat and not every time I trained and whatever. So I was like, well, it's probably going away. It's resolving. But subsequently the last three or four weeks when the train loads got much higher and, uh, you know, it actually started to matter what the weight was on the bar. Uh, it became more prominent and kind of came to a head this past week. I was supposed to basically do my last heavy squats and last heavy deadlifts. And my last heavy squat, I felt something in the hole of the squat, but I still was able to stand up with it. And I've torn that adductor before. And that was, uh, yeah, you're not standing up with anything with the completely, you know, torn adductor. Although it turns out it was only partial tear and the tendon was fine. This particular time I stood up and I was like, eh, it doesn't feel good. I'll just go lighter on my backoffs. And I thought it was fine until it came time to deadlift later on in the week. And honestly, I couldn't really pick up. I mean, my best deadlifts in seven 50 range and I, anything three 75 was, it's not that it was heavy. It just hurt a lot anyway. Yeah. Yeah. So long story long at this point, uh, that was basically a couple of days ago. And this is supposed to be the week of the meet. I was like, if I can't squat like at least three 15 without pain, like pain-free, I don't know that it's a good idea to do the meet because knowing myself, I can't just go there and I'm going to squat three 15 and I'll bench something heavy. Like what? I don't want to travel across the country to do that. Sure. I mean, one 35 was gnarly. Yeah. Yeah. It took everything in my brain, like positive self talk and it's going to be fine and you're okay. And it's not like I was, you know, going to die at the bottom of the squat. It just was like, this is very uncomfortable. And I was videoing myself and I was squatting. I went to two 25 after that and I was squatting it high, even though I was like trying everything in my power to get to that. I just wouldn't let myself do it. Cause I'm like, yeah, it's going to, it's going to hurt. Yeah. Yeah. Frustrating situation. And you gave me a call in the aftermath of it. And we had a, we had a chat about what you're experiencing and what the, the wise strategy is moving forward. And, you know, unfortunately these things don't really care about competition schedules when they, when they happen. And, and I think, you know, given the big picture quote unquote stakes that are involved, uh, over your competitive career time span, then it sounds like we, we moved to try to be smarter, uh, with this rather than trying to force something. Yeah. The biggest problem is that masters nationals is like eight weeks from now. Right. And so in my brain, I'm like, all right, best case scenario, like a three, four week rehab, like everything went exactly as you planned. And like, okay, now I can train that only gives me four weeks of training. And I don't feel great about, I just don't feel great about that. Also the last like few months, I've kind of been on this like singular focus of I'm going to a powerlifting meet. It actually matters. I'm pulling out all the stops. I'm going to live this monk life and do it. And it's just frustrating, man. I don't know what else to say other than like, it sucks. Yeah. So been there. I know, I know the feel and I think that, that, uh, you, you described it well when you go monk mode and you're singularly focused on this thing. Yeah. Um, especially something that is as, uh, monotonous as powerlifting. Right. And I don't mean monotonous in a super negative way, but rather it's just like structurally a monotonous activity than the same three lifts and like pretty close variations of it, which sets people up for a relatively high incidence. I think of like just overuse syndromes when they're pushing towards a performance goal. Right. Not so much of people are just like, ah, I'm recreationally doing this for general health. You know, that there's tend to be less, less frequent, but, um, pushing high loads, high volumes, high frequencies towards a, towards a goal. And then along the way, you know, when you have those kinds of niggles that come up here and there and you say, ah, it'll probably get better. And you keep going, you know, sometimes they do. And sometimes you end up kind of digging yourself into a little bit of a, of a, of a deeper hole, um, which, you know, sometimes luck doesn't go your way. I, I do, I did do remember, you know, on, on the call when we were chatting that as frustrating as it is, the, one of the first things actually that I thought about was when you dislocated your shoulder and that was a much more obvious, like acute sudden thing where you're like, oh, I'm done for a while. Right. Like there's, there's not like, oh, let me work around this kind of thing. Right. And, um, knowing that you fully dislocated your shoulder. And then, you know, I remember the video that you put together of the way you came back from that and worked back up to a, you know, 200 kilo, uh, bench press. And I've had my share of, you know, tweaks and strains and tendon things that, uh, have, have had me have to deload all the way back to the bar at varying times. And of course the, the timing was not necessarily right before meat, which adds to the level of frustration. But I think trying to zoom out, especially at this stage in your training career and recognizing this is a, this is a long-term deal that, uh, there's really nothing preventing you from, you know, fully rehabilitating this and moving some, some heavy weights again. Yeah. But maybe going about it in a different way might be wise next time around. Yeah. I have no concerns about like, will I ever be strong again? Will I be able to squat or whatever? That's the, the real thing is I don't think in the best case scenario, everything goes my way. I could squat 600 pounds in eight weeks, which is unfortunately, you know, like that's, that's the, that's the bar. Right. So, um, yeah, it's just frustrating. Um, and I kind of feel, I feel a little dumb in a way, like, like mainly because like I was training intelligently. However, if I had to do it all over again, probably beforehand, I'd be like, you know, my hip, it has been kind of talking to me off and on a little bit. Like, is this the best decision? Sure. I don't know that I would have made a different decision, you know, without, uh, the benefit of, of hindsight here because I would have been like, well, I'll just, uh, maybe include some more variation or I'll, you know, be, it'll be a little lighter or I'll do some more rehabby types. And who's to know, even if that would have modified my course here, it's just, I just feel all the effort and resources like, you know, towards this singular goal, it just feels like a waste. So yeah, I feel you, man. It sucks. Yeah. Maybe I'll be a bodybuilder for a couple of weeks. I, uh, so after the, after 225, I was like, yeah, all right, I'm going to scrap this. I didn't even try to deadlift. Cause I was like, this is stupid. So I went to the pendulum squat and if I take a narrow stance and it's probably just too parallel and like, just cause the stance is so narrow, that's tolerable. A hack squat's a no-go cause there's just too much external, it's sensitive. A leg press is fine. But you know, interestingly, the worst, like the worst feeling one, can you guess it's a unilateral exercise? What's the worst feeling exercise I did today? I was going to say either, either some form of a split squat or like a Cossack, like a lateral lunge kind of thing. Oh, I didn't even try a Cossack. God, I bet that would have been too. Uh, I did step-ups with like, and like just body weight only, like a lateral step up. So anyway, I know what I'll be doing. It's just, you know, uh, and so anybody who was looking forward to a potentially mediocre finish at, uh, open nationals when maybe a better finish at masters nationals, you guys are gonna have to wait another year, I guess. And so will I, and I'll have to come to terms with that. That's, that's fine. Maybe I'll be more chipper on the next podcast. Anyway, in that training, you can, uh, how about maybe if you need some more supervision, you can, you can run your training decisions by me week to week and I'll, I'll be the, uh, the intelligent decision maker on the, on the other shoulder. Yeah. And it's not AI. It's a, it's human. Yeah. Human intelligence. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, let's get into some of these questions. We're going to start, start off with a banger here. We're going to talk about the best ways to prevent soreness. So this question was actually longer about, you know, how do you prevent soreness from like BJJ, CrossFit, et cetera. And I just simplified it to best ways to prevent soreness from training because I don't know that any specific modality, like type of training has a unique sort of like, Oh, we'll do this in this specific case. So we can just talk about soreness more generally. Um, and so I, I believe that this individual is talking about delayed onset muscle soreness or DOMS, and this is pain, stiffness and tenderness in the muscles that starts in the hours following a workout peaks within 24 to 72 hours before gradually subsiding. Now there's still a lot of uncertainty around the mechanisms, like what causes DOMS, though it is pretty clear that loaded eccentric exercise is required. That's exercise where the muscles actively lengthening. So like the downward phase of a squat, for example, or a bench press, uh, new exercises and or higher training loads likely increase the risk and severity of DOMS though age and sex don't seem to be related. So it's highly likely that anyone who is serious about training or who regularly engages in a formalized exercise, they're going to experience delayed onset muscle soreness. If it's happening all the time, that suggests that the training load likely volume, uh, the proximity to failure and or the intensity. So the amount of weight that's being lifted are too great for the individual. Some usually a combination of all of those things. And if somebody never experiences delayed onset muscle soreness, it's probably likely that their training load isn't high enough to sort of get all of the potential gains they could have from engaging in exercise. Uh, perhaps paradoxically, so continued training, even when you're sore can reduce the severity of DOMS. So that's not really preventing delayed onset muscle soreness, but more of like a symptomatic or therapeutic treatment. You can call it therapeutic exercise if you like. So when faced with the idea of like, how would you prevent DOMS? That's different than treating it, right? When you start thinking about prevention of people getting sore or reducing the severity of soreness, what do you start thinking about Austin? Yeah, there's going to be probably a, like, I'm imagining a scenario where I'm working with somebody and they're like, that's their main concern is wanting to prevent soreness. And so I think some conversation would be in order at that time point to set some of the expectations that you just mentioned of like, well, what does soreness mean to you? And I expect somebody who's asking that might be like, well, the last time I tried to exercise, I got so sore that I was like laid up in bed and I couldn't move for two weeks or I, or, or maybe they, it was so bad that they actually like got rhabdo. And then that's what they mean by sore. It's like, yeah, okay. There are, there are different ways to go about this, but just any soreness at all is not necessarily something that you need to prevent altogether, especially when you're starting to do something new. If it's something that's tolerable, does it limit you in the subsequent days? I would, you know, try to reset some of those expectations. Uh, but I'm not trying to just like gaslight this person either necessarily. And like, you know, brainwash them into saying that this is never a thing that you're going to experience, but rather that it's just a kind of an expected response to a novel training stimulus, um, or some of these other variables that you mentioned. It reminds me a little bit of our conversation on the last podcast episode around IBS and like FODMAP diets and sensitivity to where two people might have a similar, you know, amount of distension in their gut. And one person might experience it as a little bit more unpleasant than, than someone else. I feel like you or I, if we do some training and we get sore, it's almost like a borderline enjoyable kind of sensation in the next day or two, because it's like pretty uncommon for us to experience it at this point. Um, and so there is this kind of subjective experiential aspect to it. Uh, and so if you're able to reframe what soreness means to you, like, Oh, it means I at least likely got a reasonable training stimulus from this session. That's not to say if you didn't get sore, you don't get sore that you're not getting a reasonable training stimulus, but so there's just some initial conversation at play. And then the rest of it comes down to the, if we want to mitigate it as much as possible, then I guess the idea would be adjusting the dose and the novelty of the training stimulus to be as like small and incremental as possible. If you wanted, if like, if I was like new to training and I was like, I don't ever want to feel a bit of soreness during this whole training journey, then like your first session is going to be like a set of three with the bar. You're done for the day. Right. So making, making the increments and the dosage, starting it super low and incrementing it super slowly, I think would probably be the best way up front to like prevent feeling soreness if that was your goal at the outset. Yeah. I actually think that maybe there's like an expectation continuum here, right? So if you're maybe a preference continuum, so if your preference is to never feel sore, I think that you're likely going to leave a substantial amount of fitness related adaptations on the table because you'll never get close to like your maximum training load that you can tolerate. And then on the other side of that spectrum, if you're like, I must feel like crazy sore after every workout, because that's the only way you know that it's working. I think you're actually out kicking your coverage more often than not. And you're also going to be a little stymied there. And so you'd want to be somewhere in the middle. You'd want to be sometimes I'm sore. Sometimes I'm not. Yeah. When I think about prevention, I just kind of automatically try to come up with different categories for like risk factors that I think would actually increase soreness. So I think about extrinsic factors, intrinsic factors, program specific factors, and environmental factors is broadly speaking. So extrinsic factors would be things like sleep. So sleep deprivation, for example, we know that people tend to report or have signs of an increase experience in training stress if they're sleep deprived compared to that same training if they are not sleep deprived. So if somebody was going through a phase of like sleep deprivation, sleep restriction, whatever life stress was real high and causing some sleep related issues, that would be a time to concomitantly reduce total training load, like maybe as a preventative or prophylactic strategy there. Another extrinsic factor would be nutrition. And the two major ones here are just total energy intake. So like if it's Ramadan, for example, maybe that's not the time for your highest sort of training load, because we do worry about total energy intake if it's not available to you. Or if somebody is in like a dieting phase, it is possible that if they have like a pretty significant energy deficit that, you know, they're just run out of total calories to support their activity levels. I don't really know that that's going to happen in resistance training too much. But I think about like more endurance focused activities, people trying to prepare for ultras or marathons or something like that. And they're also trying to lose weight. It's like you really just need to feed, you know, feed your activity level at the time. It's probably not the greatest time to lose weight. And then protein would be the other one. There's pretty good evidence here that if there's a protein insufficiency, that people will report higher levels of soreness, which is exceedingly rare in modern societies, particularly in the United States, we just tend to eat a pretty high amount of protein, even if it's not as much as you need to like maximize gains. And so in the research, if once people get up to that 1.4, 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram of total body weight per day, I think people can check the box for protein higher than that, maybe a personal preference, and it may be better for some like muscle related outcomes, like muscle mass, muscle strength, muscle preservation, perhaps in a cut. But like, if you're eating less than that, and you're sore pretty regularly, that is kind of an easy fix if you can stomach the protein and the price of it. Intrinsic factors, I start thinking about mood. So some decent evidence regarding anxiety and depression, and it seems to correlate with more severe experience of DOMS. And so I could think about, you know, you have a person who has a, you know, no sort of mental health issue, right? And they're running a training program, and they're off to the races, they're thriving, yeah, things are going great. And then they develop major depressive disorder, for example, and they're like, why am I sore all the time? It's like, well, this is multifactorial, like you're just maybe more sensitive to that same sort of training stimulus, like you talked about earlier with IBS. And so they feel more sort of soreness, experience more soreness, or it could also cause other effects with nutrition, you know, perhaps they're eating less, they might be sleeping less. And so it could be more complicated than just the mood itself. It could have other knock on effects. I think about program specific factors, you talked about this already. So new exercises, the like more novel on exercises, particularly if it has a pretty big eccentric component. Yeah, that's a recipe for increased soreness, especially if the amount of reps sets and total training load is high. And then even more so if the proximity to failure is pretty close. So I can imagine a situation trying to give an exercise you haven't done in a while, Austin, I'm thinking overhead press, you just you, you don't like overhead pressing, for example, although maybe that's not a great example, because there's not a lot of eccentric there. So maybe what is the exercise that you don't necessarily do a lot of that has a long eccentric? I've been doing super varied training recently. And it's actually been more challenging to find something that gets me gets me sore. I mean, I imagine like if I if I flip the question and had you do like sissy squats loaded on a hack squat machine or something like that, that's probably a fair amount of eccentric load across the quads that you're not used to handling. Or like if I had you do, you know, reasonably heavy, like single leg dumbbell RDLs or something like that, that you're not ready for. That would be another example. Yeah, long eccentric, getting taken it all the way to failure close to, yeah, significantly worse than a more moderate amount of volume and a little bit further away from failure. So you would probably initiate a person, you know, their first experience to these exercise first exposure would be less total reps and sets staying further away from failure. And then you can gradually increase that over time as the person's able to tolerate it. And yeah, training status is another big one that's program specific. So if a person is, you know, very, very well trained, and has had a wide variety of different exercises that they've had exposure to, there's some transference of this thing we call repeated bout effect, the RBE. Basically, that suggests that people get less muscular damage to an exercise that they've already done. And there seems to be some transference between similar exercises. So for example, yeah, squat, a regular squat with no pause is one type of exercise, whereas a pause squat is a different type of squat. And I would expect there to be good transference with respect to like muscular damage that you would experience from those two exercises. So the more trained a person is, I would expect the less soreness. So just like you kind of basically just said, you're like, dude, I've been doing a lot of weird stuff. So try to make me sore. Right. Good luck. Yeah, good luck. The last thing I think about here, just as far as major factors that would be generalizable to most folks is the environment. And I don't, you know, mean necessarily like, oh, what gym did you train at? But if it's really hot, for example, and or the environment is harsh, and so hydration status becomes an issue. Yeah, those things would all increase, tend to increase soreness and actually increase risk of like rhabdomyolysis. So exertion of rhabdo, and then also like heat related illness too. So if you're in a hotter environment, maybe you live in El Paso, Texas, and your gym is not air conditioned, for example, that might not be a great time for your highest volume, highest training load sort of session. And then you mentioned underlying medical issues. I was going to see if you came, if you discuss this, you want to talk about metabolic like issues or like, I mean, I'm imagining, I've seen patients before who maybe they're not habitual exercisers, but if they have kind of this subacute or chronic kind of muscle aches or disproportionate muscle aches or soreness in response to trivial amounts of activity, I remember admitting an older lady once who was just doing her routine housework, and she was getting super sore. And she came in, and we actually found out that she was in rhabdo. And we're like, tell us about this housework. And it actually sounded pretty routine, not terribly high effort. And she ended up having a myositis. She had a condition called polymyositis, an autoimmune attack on your own muscle cells. And so there are a variety of underlying muscle conditions that can increase the risk of this kind of thing or predispose you to it. And I obviously don't say this to have anybody who feels sore to go get tested for a bunch of these things. But rather, if it seems very disproportionate, or someone has recurrent episodes of rhabdo that don't seem to be, again, proportionate to the stimulus that they have been exposing themselves to in training, I do start to wonder about muscle disorders, myopathies, myositis, mitochondrial conditions, especially if they're young, or certain medications that can increase the risk of muscle disorders like this. So there are some underlying medical things to think about, especially if it's, again, disproportionate or recurrent severe episodes of this that you wouldn't have expected from the novelty of the activity or the dose of activity. Yeah, yep. Yeah, good feedback. We discuss delayed onset muscle soreness and more in podcast episode 298. I've linked that in the description below. All right, let's move on to the next question here. This is a good one. And I'm not just saying that I know that sometimes I do that. That's just like habit. But this I like this one a lot as well. This individual says I have bad congestion and occasionally take Sudafed. Can I train? Is it dangerous to take on comp day? So maybe potentially, yes, maybe potentially, yes, dangerous to take on competition day depending on where you're competing, like what organization. So this is pseudoephedrine. That's Sudafed. This directly stimulates alpha adrenergic receptors in your nose and in your respiratory mucosa, also in your beta adrenergic receptors in the bronchial tree. Basically, when people take this, they have like a stuffy nose, if they've had a cold, if they've got sinusitis, allergic rhinitis, stuff like that. And yeah, it helps you breathe better, decrease mucus production and all this other sort of stuff. Now, all that's well and good can be therapeutic in those settings, but it is prohibited in competition use. So if you're subjected to WADA testing, it is prohibited to use in competition. You can use it outside of competition. You don't need a therapeutic use exemption, a TUE to use it. Like, look, if you get a cold and training or whatever, and somebody pops up at your gym to test you, like whatever, you don't need a therapeutic use exemption for that. But if you get tested at your meet, you would potentially, you could potentially pop positive and have a higher level. There's like a threshold level. I think it's 150 milligrams or something like that in the urine. And so then you would apply for a retroactive TUE. But there have been reports of people who have tried to do that, but their level was so high that they were like, nah, bro, you're tested positive. You got a two-year ban for taking Sudafed. So maybe dangerous, not from like a health risk standpoint. It actually, there's actually some decent evidence. I didn't expect to find much on this, but they have taken a lot of like healthy people, given them Sudafed, and then had them exercise or do some sort of a performance thing and see like what happens. And so, yeah, it increases your heart rate in healthy individuals. But it doesn't really increase performance. It seems to be about half the amount of performance increase people get from taking caffeine. So whether or not this should be on the band list is a whole other thing. I think WADA and their rules and stuff is more about the potential abuse, which people can and do do for Sudafed. I think the bigger risk I think about is why is somebody taking this and further like, is it a good idea to be training in a public place if it's something that's infectious, like a public health risk? And I don't know, how does that strike you? Do you think I'm like being overly cautious, overly risk averse or what? Yeah, this is a person, whoever asked this is somebody I'd want to have a bit more of a conversation with them about to get a sense mainly of the nature of their symptoms and especially its chronicity, meaning how long it's been going on for, because Sudafed is not a drug that I would recommend somebody use for chronic nasal congestion. The most common cause of chronic nasal congestion is just going to be probably regular old seasonal allergic rhinitis, which has much better and safer treatments that you can use long term to manage chronic nasal congestion from allergic rhinitis. But if it's not allergic rhinitis, then there are still other things that can make you have a sensation of congestion in your nose that would be worth detecting certain like polyps and other sorts of things that would be worth taking a look in there, right? But there's no situation, there's actually no situation where I'm recommending somebody chronically use pseudoephedrine long term for something like this, if it's not been evaluated or figured out why the person's experiencing it. So that's that would be my first recommendation is like, hey, have you tried other better and safer medicines for allergic rhinitis before using something like this? It's interesting, you mentioned that there's even a modest performance benefit, I guess, from stimulant effects. Have you noticed? Have you noticed in this lecture? Have you noticed in this lecture?  I'm also I'm also curious, I'd be curious, I'm also curious, I'm also curious, I'm also curious, I'd be curious, you know, when they test, you know, when they test, do their drug test, are they actually directly testing for pseudoephedrine or is it that this drug cross reacts with other things that also have stimulate type effects, other things from the like ephedrine family? That would be not surprising to me as one of the ways that you could pop positive from just cross reactivity with from others. And then the last thing I'll say is pseudoephedrine is the type of pseudoephedrine that I believe has been moved to behind the counter, quote unquote, because it's something that has been used to synthesized meth before. Whereas now, if you're getting something just off the shelf and it's labeled as Sudafed, it's often now labeled as Sudafed PE, that is phenylephrine, which is not the same as pseudoephedrine. And phenylephrine is also an alpha receptor agonist, but it is worthless for congestion, for cough, for cold, for symptomatic management. There was actually some new guidance, I think, within the past couple of years, I believe it was from the FDA, on the general worthlessness of phenylephrine for cough and cold remedies, yet it still tends to be sold and is available over the counter. And so I don't recommend anybody use phenylephrine pills, oral systemic pills of phenylephrine for anything. There are other uses of phenylephrine if you give it in other ways. Usually it's going to be in a hospital setting, so you don't need to worry about that. So, yeah. Yeah. It says under WADA's rules for this that pseudoephedrine is prohibited in competition when its concentration in the urine is greater than 150 micrograms per milliliter. Now, again, to your point, I don't know what exact metabolite they're testing for, but the way that reads to me, I'm like, are they testing just for pseudoephedrine or it's like known metabolite? Yeah, I don't know. The last thing I had here, so if somebody was taking this, they had like a cold, right? This is another question I got separately. We'll just lump this together. If someone has an active cold, it's likely to be caused by a virus, you know, if it is in fact a cold. And so any post-viral syndrome, so people can have after they've had a viral infection, can increase the risk of myocarditis. And that's been pretty topical recently. I don't know. If somebody's got a pretty gnarly cold and they're like, should I train? And I'm like, public health risk aside, I think it's likely to be fine, you know, just common things being common. Some people are going to develop myocarditis. I just don't know that exercise, while somebody has these symptoms actually does increase the risk of myocarditis. I think it's one of those things that's either going to happen or it's not, regardless of what you do. However, you might identify, in fact, that you do have myocarditis by exposing yourself to exercise, because otherwise you wouldn't know. At least that's how I'm thinking about it. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. I mean, that's a hypothesis. I find it plausible. It's infrequent enough that this is certainly not a great concern for me. I think when I get asked this to your point, it's are you training in a public gym with an active, you know, febrile illness or something like that, where you're spewing virus everywhere. But if you're training by yourself, like you and I have both trained when we felt under the weather, I think that most of the time we tend to adjust our sessions to a greater degree in that situation, because it's just recognizing like, I might just mentally or to some extent, physically prefer to be active more than not. Yet, I also recognize that my body is not in the best position to adapt to a stimulus right now. And so hitting a max effort set or aiming for a particular weight load on the bar or something, that's not necessarily the point of this session, but rather just to move around a bit and feel good is it's okay to sometimes do that. And so that's usually what the path that I take, because I, of course, have maintained a garage gym for a long time. So it's straightforward, even when I don't feel awesome to get out and move around a little bit. But I'm usually not loading terribly heavy because the stakes are not usually very high. I'm not usually a week or two out from a meet with a cold trying to hang on to every last bit that I can. And just recognizing like, this is a much bigger, bigger, longer term process and training hard when you're ready to adapt is better than pushing it when you're not ready to adapt. Yeah, I like that. No, good summary. All right. Next question. Why does the food matrix effect apply to supplemental fiber, but not to supplemental protein? Yeah, I did. I looked at a little cross-eyed that you just made that. It does. Yeah, it does. In fact, that was my, that was my answer. But I wanted to actually discuss this a little bit more because I think, and some of this is probably our fault when we talk about the complex relationships of whole foods and how that differs from the isolated nutrients from those foods. We just kind of hand wave it away and say, well, it's the food matrix effect. And people are like, the food, what is Keanu Reeves, the lead star in this particular movie? All right. So let's talk about what the food matrix is and what the food matrix effect is and go from there. The food matrix refers to not only the chemical and physical components of food, but also their molecular relationships that affect how food is digested and metabolized. The food matrix effect refers to how the whole food, like an apple, for example, influences a particular outcome, like feelings of fullness or satiety, or a health parameter compared to one of its nutrients in isolation. So like a particular flavonoid that an apple contains. And so how this might be practically applied is if the study comes out or a mainstream media headline, because I said eating an apple a day keeps the doctor away. Okay. Maybe that came out like turn of the century or whatever. Somebody might say, well, it's the flavonoids or it's the tocopherols or whatever it is, you know? And so they try to isolate and they're successfully able to isolate this thing. And now it's a supplement. You can take, you know, apple flavonoid three, whatever, you know, and they're like, see, I'm taking, I basically, it's like eating apples, but those things are different. Those things are different because the sum of all of the things that makes an apple and apple is greater than the parts. So it's not just the flavonoids, not just, uh, you know, the fiber, for example, or in this case, the protein, but it is the complex relationship of the whole food. And so using the fiber example here, increasing the intake of fiber from whole foods, for example, that tends to be more filling. So people feel fuller and they tend to reduce total energy intake to a greater degree when compared to people increasing fiber by supplementing. And the reasons for this are complex. It's not just the fiber, but it's the fact that that whole food that contains fiber replaces or displaces other foods and the subsequent dietary pattern changes. It, you know, people, the same people who are, you know, adding broccoli or like legumes or lent, whatever to their diet that more changes are occurring than just, Oh, they just increase more fiber. No, no, no. You took something else out of your diet. For example, you're, you've shifted your dietary pattern on moss because I mean, you weren't eating legumes before. And now you are, and you're doing other stuff. So there's a behavioral component here. Other nutrients in the whole food could be contributory, whether it's a vitamin, whether it's another micronutrient, not just fiber, the way the fiber is actually packaged structurally within the food itself can be contributory. So generally speaking, increasing dietary fiber via supplementation does not have the same health effects as increasing whole food sources of fiber. The one major sort of, you know, time that this does not apply is when we talk about lowering LDL, for example, triglycerides as well. People can take massive amounts of dietary, supplemental fiber and get continued lowering of those two parameters, which is the same you would see from whole food, but it is impractical to tell somebody, Hey, I want you to get 70 grams of fiber a day from whole foods. Like what? Yeah, it's probably not going to happen. I've had a couple of patients who were willing to go for it. One guy who had familial hypercholesterolemia, and he was actually managing to get over a hundred grams of fiber a day from foods. And I was like, respect, but also your toilets doing the most here. Yeah. You're the real MVP that porcelain. Yeah. Yikes. So when I think about protein, I think that there is a similar relationship between supplemental protein and whole food based protein for some outcomes of interest, but not all outcomes of interest. So muscle related outcomes, if we're talking about hypertrophy strength, for example, or signaling of muscle protein synthesis, I would predict that a, you know, a whey protein supplement in isolation is going to do the same as chicken, right? You know, the protein that's doing the same from that particular sort of aspect, but that doesn't mean that it's the same for all health outcomes. So like hunger and satiety, feelings of fullness. Um, we know that people who eat, get their protein, for example, from whole foods, they tend to have a higher, uh, degree of satiety than after a shake. And that's been pretty well established across all sorts of different foods. When they're, when foods are presented in like a semi-solid or solid form, people tend to eat less later on than if they had that same amount of calories and nutrients in liquid form. Okay. Uh, it's just, there are, and there are other examples like this. And so I just wouldn't say that the food matrix effect or whatever is either all or none. It just depends on the outcome of interest, depends on the particular food. And I would even further say that like protein is the isolated nutrient from chicken and chicken itself has protein, has some fat, has some other nutrients that a supplemental protein doesn't have. And so the reason why eating chicken in various ways that can be prepared might be more satiating or produce a different sort of outcomes, uh, than a supplemental protein is probably due to all of the things that make chicken a unique sort of food compared to, uh, just protein being bland dispensed from like a refrigerator or something like that. Does that make sense to you? Yeah. There's been, there's been trials. I mean, one caveat is also you were kind of building in an assumption that there are proteins of similar quality, right? So if you have, you know, a collagen supplement or something versus a whey or collagen versus an animal protein source or a sufficiently dosed plant protein source, you might even with muscle see a different level of, you know, outcomes from that. But if it's assuming equivalent kind of protein quality, then yeah, just purely hypertrophy, they are going to tend to be pretty similar, but there have been randomized trials, even comparing different protein sources. I remember one paper that was comparing, for example, like white meat poultry versus, I think it was fish versus tofu or something like that. And you end up seeing different outcomes in terms of various cardiovascular risk markers, blood lipids, things like that. And so you can't say that, well, not that you can't, but you should not conclude that these, the, the different amino acids themselves are driving differences in the patient's, you know, blood cholesterol levels and their cardiovascular risk. It's the whole food item. And so from those foods, maybe if they're similar, similar protein quality, similar dose, you might get similar muscle effects out of it, but maybe some of them are going to have more favorable effects on your lipids and cardiovascular risk and others more unfavorable. And I think that most of the folks listening to this should probably account for things like that when it comes to their habitual protein sources. Right. So some, some folks get really on the bandwagon of, I need all protein, all animal derived protein sources all the time, high dose to ensure adequate muscle, you know, uh, development. And so I'm just going to go all beef all the time. And I'm like, well, uh, I can feel pretty confident that that's likely from the dietary protein standpoint to maximize your muscle adaptations. But I also think that if you were to swap out some servings or many servings of that with some of these other options along the way, you might maintain similar gains in the, from the muscular side while also enjoying health benefits and other kind of more varied nutritional benefits from the other food sources as, as part of your overall dietary pattern. So swapping out some of that for some salmon, swapping out some of that for some legumes, swapping out some of that for, you know, other things is generally wise, I think. Yeah. We just cannot assume that reductionist sort of, you know, type type analysis that like, okay, if you separate this one thing from the whole food it came from, then it's going to work the exact same. And we just call that, you know, when we find differences, we just call, uh, the reason for all of that, the food matrix effect. Now teasing out what the exact sort of, you know, contribution between structure versus behavioral versus like co-occurring nutrients. Well, that's, that's above our pay grade, you know, to, to speak for every potential, uh, uh, uh, thing here. But yeah, hopefully that was a good discussion about the food matrix and the food matrix effect. All right. Next question here on this, ask me anything on a barbell medicine podcast. What is the minimum amount of sets frequency needed to preserve muscle mass while on anti-obesity medications? Just right off the jump. If I pose this question to you, does it add number into your brain or is it all like initially it's just like, it depends. Yeah. Yeah. The thing that springs into my mind is a similar topic that we've talked about a few times recently, kind of like the, the bell curve of training responsiveness, right? And so if you have somebody who just set aside the drug altogether for the moment and just all comers who are coming to start training, you're going to have some people who are super freaks. You put them on a training program, they squat two sets a week and they blow up, they get super strong, they get super jacked. Uh, they turn into Charlie. You take other people who, uh, are much more training resistant. You get them training, you crank up their training volume, their intensity. You have to employ all sorts of programming tricks and they progress super slowly. If at all, they stall out early and they get frustrated, uh, because maybe they're not responding as quickly as the guy that they see on the other side of the gym. That is, uh, the natural order of things. I'll put it that way. Right. And then everybody is distributed somewhere in between. You're going to have a lot of average responders, some high responders, some low responders. My, the way I would think about this in terms of anti-obesity medicines is in the same way, there's going to be a curve distribution of response to people trying to lose weight. There are going to be some people who have an easier time losing weight and sustaining weight loss. Some people are going to have a harder time losing weight and sustaining weight loss. The anti-obesity medicine like ozempic or any of these other ones that, that are popular, of course, at the moment, we'll just shift that curve to make it easier for more people to achieve and maintain clinically significant weight loss, right? In the same way that if we took the people who came to the gym at the beginning and put them on anabolic steroids, it will increase their sensitivity. It'll shift the curve in the other direction. More of them will have an easier time achieving a certain level of strength, muscularity outcomes, things like that. And so when it comes to this, this question more directly now, how much training do you need to preserve muscle mass while on anti-obesity medicine? Now we're just kind of crossing these two variables. You're going to have people who have a wide distribution in their training responsiveness. You're going to add in the kind of wrinkle or the additional variable of the anti-obesity medicine that might alter people's training responsiveness a little bit, but it's pretty likely that the freaks are going to remain the freaks and maybe they only need a set a week or no sets to maintain their, their muscle for, for a while. And there are going to be some people who need to train a lot more if they want to maintain their strength and muscle mass. And unless you already have a sense of that beforehand, uh, based on your training responsiveness before you started on the medicine, you're unlikely to otherwise have a great sense of that when you start the medicine. And it's going to be something you can only figure out and determine kind of in retrospect. Yeah. I think about like a study design where you could actually like come up with some sort of normalized data, like, Hey, on average, this is what you'd need. And here's the range, right? So you would have people who are untrained, right? They've not been exposed to resistance training recently. So maybe for the last year or two, because I think we would both agree that it's improbable that somebody starting an anti-BCO medication, like we go, V, some aglutide, zepbound, whatever, for them to preserve as much muscle mass as possible without resistance training. Like you're going to have to do some. Okay. So then you would just have to stratify, okay, these people got one set per week of whatever, leg press. These people got two sets per week. These people got three sets all the way up to like, I don't know, 15 sets. Right. And I, what I would expect to see is a sort of graded response where you like get up to some sort of maximum, like, wow, these people on average are preserving the maximum amount of muscle mass, perhaps even building new muscle mass, you know, gaining muscle mass, particularly if they're untrained before. And then it starts to taper off. I don't know that it tapers off completely where you see a sort of negative, although it's possible that that could happen. So yeah, that would be the study design, you know, to sort of, sort of look at this just from a very simplified view. As far as practically like, okay, well, great. You guys neck bearded this thing for, for five minutes. Like, what do I actually do here? I think we can all agree that they're going to need some level of resistance training. I think for most people preserving a large majority of their muscle mass could be achieved by just meeting the current physical activity guidelines, which is twice per week of resistance training, getting all major muscle groups using eight to 10 exercises at an intensity that's pretty uncomfortable at the end. And I think if you just checked that box, which to be, clear, almost nobody is doing right now. Anyway, broadly speaking, the general population, people would do a lot better than what they're currently doing as far as muscle mass preservation goes. And that should be caveated by, I don't think that there is this like crazy amount of muscle mass loss going on with anti-obesia medications in general. I think that is mostly an inappropriately voiced concern. What's really happening is people are losing more weight than they ever would have been able to lose with lifestyle change alone. And there's a proportional amount of lean body mass loss that comes with that. As you lose more weight, you will lose more lean body mass, but not all of that is skeletal muscle mass. It's just anything that's not fat. So water, glycogen, various sort of protein and other tissues, and short, some skeletal muscle mass. But because these people are losing far more than what folks can lose with lifestyle change alone, generally speaking, yeah, they're going to lose more lean body mass. I still think though that just meeting the physical activity guidelines is likely to get most people pretty close to like maximizing the amount of muscle preservation. Some folks are going to need more than that. Some folks are going to need a lot more than that, you know, just because the variation in response. But I can't see myself really recommending that everybody double the current physical activity guidelines for resistance training in order to prevent this, you know, potential loss of muscle mass. I think that'd be a step too far. Yeah. And if I'm working one on one with a person and trying to come up with some actual concrete guidelines, I'm also going to take into account what their historic type of physical activity is, and what their goals are. So some people like maybe somebody in our audience might actually be motivated, and they want to be as strong and jacked as they can while they use these medicines. And I'm like, okay, well, we're going to train as if you're trying to gain muscle mass. Yeah, and we'll hope to, you know, retain as much as we can. And there's actually a chance you could gain some. And other people who might be like, look, I hate lifting weights, and I'm willing to do the bare minimum, just tell me what that bare minimum is, at which case, I'm going to just like I would starting somebody, anybody else out who's untrained, I'm going to start them low, and then see how much I can negotiate with them over time. Maybe they find they don't hate it as much as they thought, maybe they're willing to do a little bit more than they thought once they enjoy some of the benefits. And maybe not. And I'll try to settle out at what's the highest amount that I can get them to that they're willing to tolerate. Maybe that's, you know, four sets a week across two sessions. Okay, well, I'm going to make those two sets, two sets per session, probably going to make them pretty hard if I can negotiate that with them. And then, you know, see how they respond. And if they find, yeah, I'm actually retaining, I don't feel like I'm losing muscle or strength, and then great. Or if they feel like I could, I'm willing to do a little bit more, cool, I might bump you up and try to see if I can get you doing a little bit more. So that's how I would approach it practice one on one with somebody. Yeah, pretty much anytime I get one of these minimum dose kind of questions, whether it's like, what's the least amount of training I can do to like maintain my current strength, muscle mass, or like, what's, you know, what's the minimum amount of training I need to do to, you know, for health. And it's like, I just come at it from the exact opposite. I'm like, well, how much can I get you to do? Yeah. Because generally speaking, the more exercise you do, the fitter that you get. And so I want you to do the most that you can. And the two constraints are logistics, like how much time do you have resources do you have, whatever. And then your physiological tolerance, how much training can you do and still recover from it. And I want to get you up to that point, you know, like, what's the most how much can I borrow here? Like that? That's what I'm going to do to max that out. Yep. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Thank you so much for tuning in all of the links to the stuff we discussed in here in the show notes below. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all this nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Barbell Medicine Seminar Overview [TrbmFCFwO5E].txt ===

We're in a paradise that's furnished outside of the economicИ Cummero F schreiben this year. We have an interesting TV feature team to show your life in the world from how it can about anybody can picture in a world. So we look at the media forward because the creative show from all walks of life. We work with athletes, we work with general population, we work with people in the medical field and people who are totally new to all of it. So they can take away the safety of the team management luxury. There's a lot of that information out there and I'm glad I did this because I had learned more things than I had any idea. We have some people who come to our seminars that have never touched of our bill before and we teach them how to lift for the very first time on the seminar platform, which is pretty cool too. We take an approach where we educate people about these conditions from a biological standpoint, from a psychological standpoint and then also the social determinants that can influence people's health and disease outcomes. Our idea is to make the community a better place through these social change agents. Go through our seminar, you learn a lot, you get to go spread that into your community and we're trying to make the world a better place.

=== FILE: Bulletproof or Broken- Why 'Perfect Form' Is a Lie [OWETkghoBig].txt ===

 we've all seen the videos, an influencer draws red lines on a freeze frame of a squat, circling a butt wink or a knee caving in and they scream, snap city. They tell you that one degree of deviation is the difference between a healthy spine and a blown disc. They sell you on the idea that the human body is a fragile machine. It's like a car. And if your alignment is off, well, you're going to wear out your parts. Because of this, 40% of healthy people say that they would exercise more if they weren't afraid of getting hurt. They spend 20 minutes warming up the rotator cuffs. They obsess over a neutral spine. And I want to be clear right off the top. If you were one of these people, terrified to round their back during a deadlift, or if you spend 30 minutes doing rehab exercises for a hip that isn't injured, that's not your fault. You aren't being irrational. You are having a perfectly normal response to the information that you've been fed. If a doctor tells you that your spine is crumbling or an influencer tells you that one bad rep will herniate a disc, the smart thing to do is to be scared. The problem isn't you. The problem is that you have been lied to by an industry that profits from your fragility. They sell you a solution to a problem that you don't have. But here's the uncomfortable truth. The scientific literature suggests that these obsession-inducing flaws in technique have almost zero correlation with actual injury risk. In fact, by obsessing over safety, you might actually be making yourself more fragile. And today, we're going to dismantle the body as a machine myth. We're going to look at the hard data on injury rates during exercise, and by the end of this episode, we're going to give you the single most important variable for staying healthy. And I promise you, it has nothing to do with your posture. And to help me break everything down, I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm excited for this one. This is a topic we've been ranting and raving about for a very long time, getting into arguments with folks about frequently. And it's one that affects pretty much everyone. So, yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, injury risk during exercise. Heated topic. I mean, I think this was one of our first little pops in the fitness space. And it is kind of interesting that we haven't published the de facto injury risk and exercise article. This is our first dedicated podcast to it, although we've had a bunch of pain and injury rehab management stuff, and we're even circling this. But let's get into it. So, before we tear it down, we do have to admit why the mechanical model is so popular. And that's because it makes intuitive sense. So let's start with everyone's favorite metaphor for the human body, the car. If you drive a car with the wheels out of the alignment, the tires and suspension components will wear unevenly and fail. It's just logical to assume that human joints work the same way. If you go one step further, sheer forces and compressive forces are real things. If you lift a weight with a rounded back, the spine is exposed to the same forces as doing the movement with the neutral spine, but in a different way. Specifically, the anatomical orientation has changed, and that's the fact. Next, many people have the direct experience of hurting themselves while lifting. If you feel a pop while your back was rounded during a deadlift, your brain can create a powerful protective association. Rounded back equals danger. And this can also happen secondhand, like when people learn from influential people in their life. Austin, can you talk about this sort of like social conditioning, surrounding pain and injury? Yeah, it's super common. I mean, this is something that social learning is a phenomenon that starts probably when we're infants. You know, we are constantly observing and learning and taking cues from the world around us. And some things we learn and we end up avoiding out of observing others' experiences. Some things, particularly among the maybe less bright or more confident among us, we feel like we end up having to learn for ourselves. But if you are anywhere in public, particularly among where there's a dynamic of say parents and kids and a kid falls and then you see how, you know, how does the parent react? How does the kid react? How does that? That's like the quintessential interaction that illustrates this type of phenomenon. And those things carry forward throughout life. There's research into what are the impacts, for example, of like parental thoughts, beliefs and behaviors around pain, and how does that translate and impact the child's behaviors or their future risk, for example, of disability from pain or pain intensity and outcomes and things like that. So there's a lot of really interesting relationships. So next time you're interacting with someone, it could be a layperson, it could be a healthcare professional, it might be interesting to observe what are the things that they're saying or what are the things that I'm observing and how does that impact, you know, the way I go about things? To what extent does this fit my beliefs or conflict with my beliefs? And yeah, so that's kind of been our observations doing this in practice for a long time now. Yeah, I mean, medicine itself has been doing this for years, you know, to tell patients that their joints are wearing out or they make some other car analogy, you know, and then this is related to their pain, you know. One leg is three millimeters shorter than the other and that's what's causing your pain. There's actually some interesting data on this. There's a study by Sechel that surveyed individuals with low back pain who believed that their pain was permanent, right? So they just surveyed them and they were like, well, why do you believe this? Nearly 90% of them reported that they learned those specific beliefs from health professionals. And, you know, we just call this iatrogenic harm, which is a fancy way of saying we, the doctors, we did this to you. And we hear this from other people all the time, either on our forums, when they email us, when we see them at seminars. You know, a doctor told me I have the spine of an 80 year old or I have bone on bone knees. Yeah, you know, I want to apologize on the behalf of our profession. We have failed you. These are lazy metaphors, you know, using wear and tear is kind of like a shortcut. It's easy to explain that way, but it's not true. And unfortunately, in doing so, we've created a generation of people who are like terrified to move their own bodies. And one of the most interesting examples here is osteoarthritis, because one of the best things you can do for an individual who has osteoarthritis is get them to start exercising. But many of these people have an understanding that it's wear and tear. It's bone on bone or whatever. Do you see that at all with people you interact with? 100%. I mean, it ends up being one of my most common recommendations, but because of how prevalent these ideas are. And, you know, having experience doing this and falling on my face early on multiple times during the conversation, I've almost learned to preempt that concern, right? So people, when they're faced with this kind of recommendation to, you know, increase our level of exercise, maybe even like lift some weights, potentially things like that. It is automatically coming into direct conflict with their existing understanding, because it presents an incoherent recommendation. And you're like, well, if this is a wear and tear thing, then how are you telling me to go wear on it more? Right. But that's the reason we see consistent evidence of benefit from this is because that simple wear and tear explanation is in fact not the correct one. There are certainly situations where there are biomechanical variables that have some relevance to somebody's pain experience to include things like osteoarthritis. But it is also impacted by so many other variables and heavily impacted by the person's general health, for example. And so we know that when we can get somebody's general health status better, for example, losing body fat, getting them sleeping better, getting them more active, addressing, you know, inflammatory conditions, things like that, that a lot of pain issues tend to improve, even if they're doing more activity than ever. And you would think that, oh, if it's just wear and tear, then the more activity than ever should, you know, cause things to worsen or progress, regardless of all the other health benefits that they get out of it. And that's actually not what we observe. We get people feeling better regularly. Or if they end up still, for example, needing to undergo some sort of osteoarthritis surgery like a knee replacement, they have better outcomes after surgery, the better shape they go into surgery with. So there's all sorts of reasons why this is worth pursuing. Yeah. And, you know, the problem is it's not just doctors anymore doing this. It's all over social media. So I want to bring up this thought like a social media virus. Yeah, sure. Words like crumbling or bad alignment from physicians or healthcare providers to their patients. Sure. Fear avoidance behaviors as a result. That's pretty easy to understand. But there's this social learning aspect that's going on, en masse in social, over social media, because there's research showing that if you watch someone else act terrified of a stimulus, you can become sensitized to it. So on Instagram, you have the influencer screaming snap city. That's the model that you see. They're socially transmitting this fear response to you. And there's even something to like the red lines, the stupid stuff you see or like a atom bomb explosion, nuclear explosion, because we know that visual cues can modulate pain. There are experiments out there, red versus blue experiments where they use a red cue that has increased pain perception, even when the physical stimulus was identical to the blue stimulus we associate red with more pain. So those red lines on Instagram, I don't stop like a default sort of color that pops up. They chose it, presumably because they also understand that red means bad or pain. It's a cultural, it's a shared cultural understanding. I mean, obviously those types of those types of studies have all sorts of reasons to tear them apart, but there are kind of socially and culturally mediated cues that when invoked can lead to this kind of shared understanding building. Yeah, it ends up being like a threat queue that red line, oh, you're out of alignment here or whatever it just hacking your visual cortex in a way. And so I thought, you know, what is this like socially transmitted kinesophobia. Yeah, it totally is and whether from social media or from other aspects of this kind of messaging and that the what we'll call the narratives or the stories that we tell ourselves or tell our patients around certain conditions, whether it relates to the mechanics of a lift or some, you know, alignment factor on social media or something clinically that I end up seeing is oftentimes in people who are diagnosed with osteopenia or osteoporosis, you know, when the explanation of it is given to them as you have quote unquote brittle bones. The same thing happens when you say, but one of the best things that we can do from a lifestyle standpoint for you is load bearing exercise and the person just like with that knee knee osteoarthritis examples like this is an incoherent recommendation based upon the explanation that you have provided to me. And so same thing the way that I talk about that condition to patients from the jump is completely different. I never use those phrases. Rather, I emphasize the adaptability of bone to stimulus and frame it as well. It has fortunately unfortunately lacks sufficient stimulus through your lifespan to this point, leading us to where it is. But fortunately, it can still respond to stimulus moving forward as can the rest of your body. And so that ends up being a much more cohesive narrative for somebody that can then support the intended behavior change rather than being in conflict that is irreconcilable. Yeah, they have to you have to unlearn the patients have to unlearn these things. Yeah, I don't think the influencers are helping when they scream snap city or they're drawing red lines. And, you know, if I'm being very critical of this, I don't think they're doing this out of the goodness of their heart because they care about your safety. I don't I don't think they're aware of the actual injury rates in from exercise. I think they just want to sell you something and they know that fear sells, whether they outright say that, you know, very boldly or if that's the motivation. If they can convince you that you are incompetent, that you can't send sit down or stand up you can't squat without a degree in biomechanics, then you need them. You need their PDF, you need their mobility course, you need their coaching. Effectively, they're trying to gaslight you into thinking that you're so fragile, you keep on clicking. But that's not what we do here at Barbot Medicine. We're here to tell you that you are robust, you are adaptable. You don't need their permission to move we are movement optimists shout out to Greg layman for that one. Yeah. All right, so we've established that your brain can learn pain from a video. But when we try to look at the actual injury data, we run into a massive roadblock. Nobody can agree on what an injury actually is. And so if we want to discuss injury rates causes and what to do about them, we have to define what an injury is first, which is actually harder than you might think. But before we get into all the definitions, like just an example of why this matters. So there's a study on volleyball players. This was in an international tournament, I believe in around 2001. And when they defined an injury during this tournament as time loss, meaning that you missed a game, the rate of injuries was 4.1 per 1000 hours. And if they defined it as physical symptoms, so any pain at all, regardless of if you need a medical care or whatever, the rate jumped to 5.8. So what's the true injury rate? And on top of that, that wasn't, you know, an example enough, nearly one third of studies on injury rates during exercise or sport don't actually clearly define what an injury is in their methodology, which makes it hard to interpret their findings. Whatever the number is, it's like, well, what did you count as an injury? So the takeaway here is that pain alone is probably not a good definition for injury. Missing games or time loss is also probably not a good enough definition for injury. Ultimately, if we're going to talk about injury rates, we need an accurate, consistent, repeatable definition. Otherwise, the data is kind of a mess. So when we look at this, there's no agreed upon consensus for definitions of an activity or even like a sports related injury and medicine isn't much better. For example, you would think it'd be very clear and easy to define what a muscle injury is. If you look at old data, this is from the 60s. The American Medical Association, they don't normally, they're not usually in the habit of publishing guidelines or whatever, but at the time they were using terms like first, second and third degree strains, which was effectively a made up sort of system. They use vague terms like mildly pulled versus severely pulled with no real criteria there. So that's the 60s. If you fast forward to now, most of the proposed definitions or criteria for a muscle injury are based on MRI findings. So you've got the British athletics system, FC Barcelona, Coen Chan, a number of studies are all linked in the show notes below, but effectively these are MRI based proposals for defining what a muscle specific injury is. The paradox here is you can have a grade zero injury, which is quote MRI negative. So the MRI looks normal or clean, but the athlete is in pain and they can't run, for example. And the data is kind of mixed on this like while MRI negative injuries do tend to heal faster. The specific MRI grade, we're talking about muscle tears, for example, doesn't always predict return to play. It's pretty messy. We're trying to force a biological sort of event into a neat spreadsheet, but you can be injured, have a functional loss without tissue damage, and you can have signs of tissue damage or changes without being injured. It's just more complicated than that. So that brings us back to our definition. We've kind of over the years come up with our own injury definition. And there's three really criteria to this. So the first is you have to have a reduction in sport performance or physical performance due to training and or sport for a significant period of time. In this case, the term significant is specific to the sport and may vary from seconds. For example, you got your poke in the eye during the MMA fight or something like that. Two days or weeks, for example. So it really has to be sport specific. So that's thing one thing to need to have subjective pain or discomfort and or objective neurological deficits that occur in the context of sport training or competition. So it has to come from sport or practice or exercise. So an example of neurological deficits would be like post concussive syndrome. Practitioner should also inquire about the use of like pain medications. So people might be using those to like mask this pain or discomfort. Right. So that's the second thing. And then the third thing is that training and or competition schedule should be modified to reflect a change in goals or prioritized outcomes, something that's significant. So we're kind of combining time loss, physical symptoms and also just a reduction in performance, right? Because there's just multiple things going on here. That's our proposed definition. This is subject to change. Perhaps some people smarter than us will come up with a an agreed upon consensus definition of sports injury. But to date, that doesn't really exist. Now, even if you do agree with our definition, you're like, you know, I kind of like that. I'm going to start using that. Well, that's great. The problem is none of the research to date uses that definition. So Austin, we just spent, you know, 10 minutes explaining how injury is a dumpster fire of a definition. Some studies count a stubbed toe. That's actually true. There's some pediatric data that kids stubbed his toe in the gym. They counted that as an injury. Others only counted if you need surgery. So here's the million potentially billion dollar question. If the definitions for an injury are this messy and again about a third of studies don't even provide a definition for an injury. Can we even trust the injury data? When we say that powerlifting or resistance training in general has about a two to four injuries per thousand hours rate. Isn't that number kind of worthless? If nobody can agree on what an injury is, how do we reconcile this mess so that we can actually give the listeners a straight answer? Yeah, that makes our job super difficult for anyone out there who is intending to or trying to rely on data or evidence to make claims about injury risk. I think that you should take a breath and pause before you make your claims. And first, make sure you understand what were the definitional criteria used in that study that you are citing and does that apply to the population you're talking to or to the context that you're talking about. This is a common problem in the clinical realm in general. It's a whole subfield. If you've never heard of it, it's called no solg. N-O-S-O-L-O-G-Y. Not the study of noses, but rather the classification of diseases and their diagnostic criteria and things like that. And so this is not isolated to this issue of injury risk when we look at, I mean, many people have probably seen, for example, conspiracy theories on the Internet about like, you know, well, in decades ago, the normal range for blood cholesterol was this, and now it's this. Of course, it's framed through the lens of, well, they just want to, you know, sell you more drugs or whatever the case is, which is not accurate. But that reflects the changing diagnostic criteria, which then impacts what is, for example, the prevalence of this condition. How common it is, is impacted by how are you diagnosing it. The same thing when it comes to diagnosing heart attacks. The blood test that we use to diagnose heart attacks has changed dramatically, even from when, you know, we were going through medical school to then what we call these high sensitivity tests, which now they're on like, I think a fifth generation high sensitivity test. And so if you exclusively just relied on, oh, is this level a little elevated, we would be saying way more people are having heart attacks, which we've had to become a little bit more skeptical and critical of and clear with what our words mean when we call something based on those blood testing criteria. So lots of examples in clinical medicine have criteria that shift over time. This is often either due to the variables relating to the population, to the clinical impact, as well as to just evidence as it improves on what is the nature of this condition. And for example, at what threshold should we call it a formal diagnosis to justify treatment, for example. So it gets messy and I don't think that we can make super clear, confident claims around injury risk based on the existing data with how heterogeneous it is, unless you take a super fine tooth comb and you go through these data and you look at, well, what criteria were used to make this claim, what criteria were used to make this claim. And is this something that applies to the population that we're talking to on this podcast, for example, how does this apply to lifters or to runners or to anyone else and are we speaking the same language, right. So does the runner who's worried about their injury risk, if we're going to cite some data, does the definition used in that data reflect the runners conceptualization of injury or are we using different kind of concepts of injury in which case, yeah, the data becomes less useful there. Yeah, I think when people are looking at what is the likelihood, if the question is what is the likelihood that I'm going to suffer a catastrophic injury, right, that is a specific definition of injury that is not universally held in the literature, right. On the other hand, if we're trying to just compare averages between different activities, the data actually is fine, even though it's imperfect, we have these messy definitions, yes, full marks to that, that is a caveat, but if you zoom out, the hierarchy of risk is still pretty consistent, meaning that despite the problems with definitions, the trends are there regardless of how you slice up the pie. We know, for example, that running has a consistently higher risk of injury than lifting weights. We know that soccer has a consistently higher risk than running and lifting, no matter how injury is defined. So even though the definitions may be imperfect, they may be, as you said, heterogeneous, it doesn't really change the trends in the data. We can use these, even though they're imperfect. It is fair to say, look, the injury data is a mess, but that doesn't mean that you have to throw it out. We don't need to, you know, it doesn't have to be perfect for us to use it. Do you agree with that? Right, yeah, that's what I mean. You just have to look at it more closely, you know, and a lot of people might be content to look at an abstract and see the results for the conclusion and toss it out there without scrutinizing a little bit more closely to make sure it was like, am I understanding this correctly, how they defined it and how that applies. Does that match my understanding of injury? If I'm going to be using this data to make claims about injury, definitely to make recommendations about injury, just, yeah, you have to look closer. Yeah, so even if the ruler is slightly bent, we can still measure who's tallest. So let's look at the actual scoreboard. The public thinks that the gym is a minefield, but the data says that it's one of the safest places in town. So injury rates are typically reported per 1000 hours of participation. While people think that deadlifts are inherently dangerous and running is safe, the data doesn't really bear that out. So, for example, walking and cycling tend to have injury rates of about 0.2 to 2 injuries per 1000 participation hours. Bodybuilding specifically has an injury rate of about 0.2 to 1 injury per 1000 participation hours. Powerlifting is 1 to 4 running on average is around 10 to over 10. Novice runners tend to be higher at about 17.8, whereas experienced recreational runners are about 8. But all of those pale in comparison to contact sports like soccer or rugby, which range from like 15 to over 80 injuries per 1000 participation hours. Although I will have to tip my cap to my sport of choice, which is motocross, which to my knowledge has the highest injury rate of any sport that's been documented. It's greater than 90, which maybe tells you something about how well my brain works. But here's an interesting thing. There was a randomized trial of sedentary adults or insufficiently active adults. They basically took adults, they split them into two groups. One group did 6 hours of cardio a week. The other group just continued not really to exercise. And after a year, the injury rate was nearly identical at 28%. You have a non-zero risk of injury by just existing as a human. So you might as well get strong while you do it. Austin, do you like this analogy, this thing between like comparing the gym is being like a safe neighborhood versus a different sport like soccer is like a war zone? Do you see that analogy where people consider soccer as like, no, that's probably pretty safe, but the gym is dangerous, but they really have this thing kind of flipped? Yeah, I have mixed feelings about that. I definitely think that that is a common conception. Nobody really bats an eye, for example, if somebody say you're at work and you meet some coworkers and they say, oh, we're going to go to like our pickup rec soccer league or something like that. And nobody would bat an eye at that. But if you tell them like, hey, I'm going to go to the gym, it's my like heavy deadlift day or something like that. And they'll be like, oh, be careful. Right. So that is certainly baked into the culture and super, super comment. Now my aim to correct that would not necessarily be to invert the thing and to say, now we need to tell the person who says they want to go pick up play pickup soccer to say, oh, be careful. Right. Because we're still going to be in favor of activity. It's going to be a matter of dosage. And are you prepared for doing the thing that you're trying to do? So I still am not going to be interested in like, you know, demonizing certain activities, but rather destigmatizing those that, you know, where the data that we do have is not nearly done. Not nearly supportive of the level of concern that people commonly and just culturally tend to express about it. Yeah. And you would think about the factors or the elements in a gym. All of the variables are very controllable. The environment is sterile. You can pick the exercises. You can pick the weight. You can pick the movement speed. You can pick the amount of exercise you're doing. And oh, by the way, when you're going to squat or do a leg press or bench press, no one's coming to like knock you over. Right. It's pretty sterile. On the other hand, on the soccer field, even if you're like, OK, I'm only going to play, you know, 30 minutes, whatever, you're limiting your time, you're doing these things intelligently so you don't get an overuse injury, something like that. Well, you can still get clipped by another player. It's just unpredictable. It's messy or dirty as as Dr. Derek Miles would say. So I just think it's an interesting way the public kind of use these things really opposite of how they how they are. But I agree. We should not be demonizing activities. And speaking of demonized activities, we do have to talk about the elephant in the room. Crossfit. I mean, we have been critical about the actual programming of Crossfit's workouts as far as do this. Do these things like fit an individual's goals? But the reputation that it's gotten is that it's a meat grinder and we got to fact check that everyone assumes that if you do high rep snatches or you do these Metcons or whatever that you're going to explode. But Austin, does the data actually support the idea that Crossfit is uniquely dangerous compared to something like powerlifting or weightlifting? Yeah, honestly, not really. And this is borne out by several studies and metas that have been done over the years. I know that there was some publication and some even some legal wrangling around this stuff over the past 15 years or so. But to some extent, we also run into similar definitional challenges. On one hand, we have the challenges of defining injury. Here we also have the challenge of defining what Crossfit is and then kind of integrating those two things to decide like what are we even talking about what counts here. And honestly, I don't think that there's any even though Crossfit is a unique brand that got super popular. It seems to be relatively less so at this point compared with the past. It's something that is a form of exercise that just like as I guess we're kind of cutting to the chase here a little bit like any other that we talk about. It has to do with the balance of what is the stimulus and the stress of what you're trying to do compared with the level of stimulus or stress that you are prepared to tolerate. And so based on some of those studies that have looked at it, their injury rates between two to three ish injuries per thousand participation hours. Now, I suspect that if we looked and scrutinized that data super closely, there would probably be a relatively broad range, you know, kind of around those like, you know, averages that were determined from each of those studies, because Crossfit can look like so many different things, right? And you have such a broad demographic that actually took it up and engaged it. But that range, if you'll recall, is pretty similar to what we cited for powerlifting injury rates, weightlifting injury rates, things like that. But if you're talking about a beginner just getting into it, versus if you're talking to a, you know, competitive Crossfit games athlete versus a weekend warrior Crossfit athlete who doesn't do anything during the weekend and goes in for the hero on the weekends, like these are all very different contexts to be looking at. And I suspect would relate to different levels of injury risk. Yeah, in fact, so a number of the studies have actually looked at people at a Crossfit gym and doing Crossfit programming as prescribed by that gym. And I think most people would sign off. That's probably Crossfit. And there does seem to be a signal in novices that people who are new to Crossfit do seem to have a higher rate somewhere around nine for about the first eight weeks. To me, and you can weigh in on this, that seems like mostly like a load management thing. Either people are really excited or the dosing of exercise that's being given to them is just something they're unprepared for. It's not that the exercises selected or the way that the workouts are programmed themselves are inherently bad. It's just that they're dosed inappropriately for these relatively untrained individuals. They're not kind of fit for that test. Does that seem right to you? Yeah, I think I'm throwing this back to our friend Greg Lehman here again, who said something to the effect of exercise preparation, trumps exercise quality, movement preparation, trumps movement quality. So being prepared for the thing you're trying to do is what's most important. And then even when you're maximally prepared, there's obviously still some risk of fluke things happening, especially if it's in a contact setting. But the lack of preparation going into it, combined with maybe the nature of the programming and then the exacerbation of, I don't know if they're still playing like dubstep music overhead and having a social environment and people yelling and trap slapping and encouraging each other to push potentially even further beyond what they're ready for. So that is, you know, a reasonable way to explain this kind of early observation. If people had a more clear, I mean, I know that there are plenty of gyms out there that have this sort of on ramp type program where they do aim to prepare people more thoroughly for these types of things. And then potentially the way that their introductory programming goes can also be used to mitigate some of this risk would be my hypothesis. So the social sessions at RP 8 versus RP 10, the competitive environment can be not only addictive from like a social setting thing, which is probably good for like participation. But if you're pushing to failure too often, particularly too soon if you're not ready for it, yeah, I mean, kind of a recipe for what you see here. And there's also a slightly increased risk of a rabdomylysis, which is something we've talked about on this podcast a number of times. And again, I think that's mostly from the competitive setting also potentially some heat stress if you're in a warehouse.  it's not really well ventilated, AC, that sort of thing. And the duration, because a lot of classes by default are an hour. And so again, if you're a beginner and you're getting into this and you're not habitually used to exertion for an hour, then that's a way, you know, but if we restricted you early on and said your first workout's gonna be, you know, 10 or 15 minutes, max, obviously the shorter the workout is, the more intensity you might tolerate. But if you jump into an hour session and like most of it is at least moderate, if not high intensity for that time, lack of preparation, yeah, you're gonna end up, you know, with the more severe case of delayed onset muscle soreness that we call RAPDO. Yeah, yeah, there you go. All right, now there's one final disconnect that we need to fix. So when influencers talk about injuries, they typically describe them like car crashes. If you round your back, your disc is gonna explode. If your knee caves, you're gonna tear a meniscus. They paint a picture of acute catastrophic failure. But when we actually look at the epidemiology of lifting injuries, that doesn't really match reality. Sure, in contact sports like football or soccer, yes, you can see acute trauma. Someone tackles you, bone breaks, yeah, that's the car crash. But in the gym, the vast majority of injuries are chronic overuse injuries. It's tendinopathy, it's a muscle strain. It's a nagging ache that developed over three weeks because you increased volume too fast. And so the available data actually shows that the average symptom duration for injuries from exercise, specifically resistance training, is less than two weeks. If they were catastrophic structural failures, blown discs, torn ligaments, people would be out for six to 12 months. They would need surgery. Some sort of medical intervention, but these things tend to resolve in less than two weeks without seeing a doctor, which suggests that these are largely fatigue-related issues and not structural explosions. Get rid of the mushroom cloud, get rid of the red line. Seems to be more of an overuse chronic thing or fatigue-mediated injury. Is that the way you understand this stuff? That reflects most of our experience, myself doing consults and working with people in this setting as well as our rehab team. The vast majority of the time, we start out our conversations, tell me how'd you end up here? Tell me your story. And then it ends up being, oh, I got this ache or this pain here. And I think back to what my training looked like and started to come on during this period of time. And then it got exacerbated because of this and gradually progressed anyway. And it usually is what we'll call at least subacute to potentially even chronic type syndrome. Certainly some things, everything starts suddenly at some point, right? It's just a matter of how severe it is at onset that often motivates people to seek care more quickly or to like tolerate it, work through it, work around it for longer periods of time. But a huge proportion of what we deal with are the little bit more nagging persistent type issues. And the more acute ones, they tend to either declare themselves as obviously catastrophic upfront. As rare as those are, those tend to be much more apparent right away when they're to that degree. And if they're not in that category, then they tend to be ones that actually get better quite quickly, interestingly. Yeah, to me, all this fear mongering about shear forces and micro tears is treating a deadlift with the rounded back, like it could be a car wreck. But in reality, the risk profile is much more like getting a blister. If you hike too far in new boots, you can get a blister. It hurts, you change your shoes, that's load management here, and then it heals and you go on hiking. You don't need surgery for a blister and you don't need to be terrified of hiking, you just need to break the boots in slower next time. So this is actually the most critical pivot of the episode. We've established that lifting is safe, but people do get hurt. And when they do get hurt, they can get an MRI sometimes or a CT or other sort of advanced imaging. They see a bulging disc or a meniscus tear, and they think, ah, I found the smoking gun, I found the pain generator, I am broken. Now Austin, over the years, you've pulled some incredible data on asymptomatic populations. These are people who have like terrible MRIs or abnormal findings, but zero pain. So why is an MRI often a liar when it comes to pain here? Yeah, super interesting and super complex topic. I do think the MRI is put up on a pedestal as like this diagnostic gold standard to the extent that it even has a nickname that we often joke about calling it the answer donut because it's a circular shaped machine that you end up kind of getting rolled through to acquire the images. And we know, for example, from the world of back pain data, looking at how common it is to find abnormalities, quote unquote, in people's spines who have no back pain. There is admittedly also evidence showing that, well, that might be true, but also people who do have back pain, they might have a slightly higher incidence of some of these findings as well, which is not terribly surprising. But the fact that it is possible to have no symptoms and to have a significant, a really quite high prevalence of certain findings, like bulging discs, for example, in upwards of 80, 90% of people once they get to a certain age in life, even if they have no pain, is just, it's an interesting observation that should make us pause and reconsider our overall understanding of this topic. Maybe there is more to this thing that we call a pain experience than just what is going on in the tissues from a visualizable medical imaging standpoint. The other conclusion that I draw from these type of data is also that because pain is a more complex experience, it also means that we can often help people get better, even if we do not normalize, quote unquote, your imaging. So if we had to repeat an MRI, if we absolutely needed all the imaging findings to resolve, to go away, in order for your symptoms to get better, man, I would feel for rehab professionals, they would have a tough job ahead of them to pull that off, right? But fortunately, we know they get people better all the time, even when their imaging does not necessarily change. We know that a fair amount of these things that we see on imaging are either completely incidental, accidental things that were not pertinent to, you know, anything that the person might have felt or might not have felt, or are age-related in the same way that we expect to see people across the lifespan acquire more wrinkles in their skin or more gray hairs and things like that. That's completely unsurprising. We also acquire these things on the inside of our bodies, on our imaging tests, like MRIs and CT scans. And then lastly, it could be actually evidence of sport-specific adaptations, which is the really interesting one for folks who are unfamiliar with it. So for example, if you take major league baseball pitchers who obviously throw most of the time with one arm for the duration of their career, lots and lots and lots of high velocity, high force throws at their entire job, and you scan their shoulders, even when they have no pain, basically 100% of them have abnormalities in that shoulder that is being used to its maximum capacity day in and day out. Not no pain, no disability, no dysfunction. It's just the fact that the tissue is being used and stressed in a way. It's almost like imagine somebody who, you know, has trained their whole life and they have achieved a significant amount of muscle mass growth or muscle hypertrophy. It's an adaptation. If we call that an abnormality, like, oh, you're growing these weird contractile tumors that you're skeleton pathologizing that, calling it a problem when it actually it's an adaptation. So we see the same thing in pitchers, differences in the arms of tennis players who use one arm, or I imagine like bowlers or anybody who uses an extremity, I suspect in legs and knees of basketball players who are jumping of soccer players or probably, you know, NFL kickers, all of these things that are used and stressed and adapt, they will end up showing abnormalities. The problem is it's also the case that many of these athletes are in sports where they are pushed and maybe beyond their capacity or might be a contact sport and maybe they do develop pain in an area. And then you scan them and you find one of these things that might have been there all along anyway. The challenge comes to how do I interpret this? How do I explain it to the person, right? And then how do I actually aim to rehabilitate them? Do I feel like I have to act on this imaging finding? Or what are the odds that this imaging finding was one of these either age-related things or incidental things or it was an adaptation? But the athlete is at risk of saying, oh no, like my career is over because I have this thing on my MRI when really, it's just like, not because you're really good at what you do, you know? Yeah, there's a fine line between an adaptive response and a pathological response and the sort of line in the sand between the two really comes down to the dosing, which we call like load management. So if the dose, if the total training load is something that the person can tolerate and recover from, then they're likely to get an adaptive response. And you might see things on MRIs. You might see vertebral end plate thickening in weight lifters, ACL hypertrophy in weight lifters, for example, the dominant arm, the serving arm in a tennis player is growing longer. You might see these hotspots, you know, of active tissue remodeling abnormalities on imaging that are actually gonna be a feature, not a bug. But if the dosing is too high, if the load management is improper, then that can shift to the other side of the line, which is pathology at that point. And so we need to talk about load management and we'll use another analogy here that actually kind of works. In my opinion, I'll get your take on this. We're gonna talk about the body like a bank account. So your tissue's capacity is like your bank account balance and the workout is a withdrawal. If you have $1,000 in the bank, that's your capacity and you try to withdraw $1,200, that's the load, you can get an overdraft fee, which would be like an injury or pain or sort of pathological response. Now the foreign police think that the overdraft happened because you swipe the card with your left hand instead of your right hand, that's technique. We think the overdraft happened because you spent too much too fast. You can spend or lift with quote, bad form, a weird swipe all day long if the transaction is small enough, $5. But the reason that we can increase the budget is because unlike a car, we are adaptable. This is the sort of death of this wear and tear body as a machine myth. So I thought this other analogy that you might like is this callus versus brake pad. We do all this car stuff, right? So if you drive your car every day, the brake pads get used every day, they get thinner until they wear out and they break, right? But if you rub your skin like with the barbell every day, it doesn't get thinner until it breaks. In fact, it gets thicker, you develop a callus. And like I said, weight lifters have larger ACLs and denser bones. These are adaptive responses, they're not pathological responses, but pop science and influencers treat your discs and knees like brake pads. We treat them like calluses. You need to stress the body appropriately with the right dose to build this armor. The only danger is rubbing so hard that you get a blister that's too much too soon before the callus form. Hey, it's Jordan here, cutting in from the editor's desk. Now we just talked about the bank account analogy and building a callus instead of a blister. Conceptually, that's great, but the hard part is actually finding the quote right dose of stress in the gym so that you get stronger without the overdraft fees. Now you might be thinking, okay, how do I actually audit my training fatigue? How do I know if my technique is efficient? What do I actually do in the gym? And that's why we created the injury risk action plan to be more than just a triage for pain. It's a toolkit for performance over the long term. It's not a textbook, it's five actionable tools that you can use today. The first one is the fatigue audit. It's a literal ledger to check if you're overdrawn on training stress. Number two is the rep model. And there's also a big three checklist. These are rapid fire ways to dial in your form without overthinking it. We have the dosage navigator to customize your progression plan depending on where you're at in training. And yes, there's an injury triage protocol. It's a decision tree for exactly what to do if you feel a pop or an ache in the gym. Now whether you're currently dealing with a tweak or you just wanna train productively for years to come, this packet is the blueprint. It's free, it's in the show notes, download it, save the checklist to your phone, and let's get back to the episode. How do you like those analogies? I quite like those. I've not used them before with patients, but perhaps I'll selectively deploy them when needed to help somebody understand some of these concepts, especially, I oftentimes when doing a consult with somebody, I'll ask them to explain to me what they think is going on and what led them to me. And I'll just shut up and listen to their story. And I've had people talk for upwards of an hour, just unloading all of their thoughts and fears and beliefs and expectations and everything. And so that's the situation where it ends up being a lot of work to kind of help them unlearn things that are unhelpful for them and get them redirected in a useful direction. And these types of analogies can sometimes be useful when deployed, I think, in a tactful way with the right person. So I'm with you, I like it. All right, cool. Well, so now that we know the mechanism, this sort of load exceeding the capacity, people still want to blame a specific boogie man. So we're gonna line up the usual suspects here and see if they're actually guilty. Starting with suspect number one, heavy weight. You ask a random person, why people get hurt in the gym? The number one answer is they're lifting too heavy. Logic is simple, a hundred pound squat is safe, about a 500 pounds squat, well, that's dangerous. Austin, does the data actually show that lifting heavier weights increases injury rates? Yeah, this is gonna be a tough one for people because their intuition on this is gonna feel so strong. And so I think that there's gonna be some degree of, what is your own experience compared with what are the data? And then we're gonna have to come up with some way to reconcile this. Because I like setting out upfront, what would I predict if this were true? This is often how it informs lots of our interactions and arguments when we get on threats. If this were true, what would you expect? And then what is the data that actually looks at it in that way tend to show? So if we expected that the higher intensity, higher load lifting caused dramatically higher injury rates, then we would expect that the competitive power lifters and weight lifters would have the highest injury risk, that body builders and other folks who train with relatively lower loads would have much lower levels of injury risk. And that doesn't actually tend to be the case based on the data that we cited earlier. Crossfit, also they tend to use very different absolute loads and even relative loads compared to their OneRepMax compared to some of these athletes. And we actually saw not a higher incidence in the group that was tending to lift with higher loads. But we saw a pattern that suggested more of this, are you adequately prepared for the thing that you're trying to do? I know that you have cited before some data on Strongman as an interesting kind of, I don't know, you can call it an outlier compared to some of these other sports. What are your thoughts on Strongman? Yeah, Malcolm Gladwell, take your shirt off. Yeah, Strongman and Highland Games tend to be these two outlier sort of resistance training or strength sports that do tend to have higher injury rates than that two to four injury, two to four injuries per thousand participation hours that we talked about. Strongman is somewhere like 4.5 to six, something like that, and then Highland Games is like eight. But interestingly, the lighter competitors who lift lighter loads actually had higher injury rates than the heavyweights who lifted heavier loads. And to the extent that it was known, most of the injuries came from awkward implements, so like stones, yolks, et cetera. Now, I'm doing a little bit of rationalization here, like why would that be the case? But I do think it's likely that the reason why that most of the injuries came from the awkward implements being used is just due to lack of preparation, relatively speaking. Most Strongman athletes come from bodybuilding or powerlifting or whatever Olympic weightlifting, some sort of barbell sport-based background, and they're very well trained and adapted to those things, which are relatively sterile compared to, hey, pick this rock up and do some stuff with it, or these other implements that they may not have exposure to in their training because what do you mean? You don't have finger fingers in your gym? You don't have an appallence wheel, like whatever? So yeah, I thought that was interesting. It's like, there is a signal there, and how do we explain that? That said, if it was just load alone, just heavyweights, yes, to your point, you would expect the heavyweight Strongman athletes to have more injuries because they're lifting heavier, but that is not the case. What's your verdict on this overall? Is this suspect number one guilty or innocent? I think that this is, we have presented a case that makes it unlikely to be the primary suspect, meaning I'm moving it down on my tier. It's almost like in clinical medicine, when I build a differential diagnosis, I don't ever tend to take diagnoses completely off the table, but rather shuffle their probability as a contributor. So I'm just moving this way down on my list of concerns in general for people, particularly if they're well-prepared for what they're trying to do. The absolute load is not the thing that gives me the greatest source of concern. Yeah, all right, let's move on to suspect number two. This has to do with exercise selection and a quote, orthopedic cost. This is somewhat related to suspect number one, might be his cousin, right? Because the thought is that heavy compound lifts like squats, bench press, deadlifts, well, they're expensive. They cost you joint health, whatever that means. So should we swap them for cheaper exercises like split squats or trap our deadlifts to save the athlete's joints? Is this a valid way to view training? Are we spending our joints when we lift heavy? I have always found this argument not terribly convincing. I think that this again ties back into those very mechanical views of the body, viewing it as a machine with a really limited lifespan or mileage, so to speak, or how many reps that you could ever tolerate in your life. And it really tends to assume that, hey, just because you do this particular movement, that it is going to cause some degree of damage that you can never recover from. And this fails to recognize the key concept that we've been laying out repeatedly so far is this idea of adaptability, but in particular, adaptability to an appropriate stress. And so I think that that's where this comes in. Now, you will hear, certainly anecdotally, and you'll hear probably from a lot of people who are among Mike Boyle's audience, the types of people who he might be preaching to, they might validate some of this with their own anecdotes and say, yeah, well, when I do this, I tend to get pain. And so to that, my questions would still be to interrogate a little bit more about their training history, because we know, for example, that what's the greatest risk factor for having an injury is a prior injury. And so if you have a history of tweaking your back doing this, there might be the case that you, compared to somebody who's never experienced it, you might be a little higher risk, that might be an area that has some sensitivity on a longer term that might need to be addressed or managed. And then aside from that, yeah, what are you trying to do? And then tell me about your preparation to do that very thing. Now, nobody has to squat or has to deadlift, but we also know that a lot of these movements are kind of key components of everyday life in one way or another. And so having the capacity to do it, I think is important for pretty much everyone. The necessity of training it and training it maximally or heavy, I don't think that either of us, you know, insist upon that broadly speaking for the population. And so then there's a degree of, you know, discussing the person's preferences. But none of this, when it comes to prescription, ties back to the idea of, oh, you are either a person in general who needs to be worried about orthopedic cost or more often this is like, you are above a certain age. And so this becomes a more unique concern for you. How do you tend to reframe this concept? Yeah, I mean, I think again, it ignores adaptation. Like when you drive your car, your tires don't get thicker, your brake pads don't get thicker, right? But the body does do that in response to an appropriately dosed sort of stress. And so I kind of flip this thing on its head, you know, instead of like, oh, it's a heavy cost to do a deadlift. I think it's an investment. Yeah, the stress can potentially be high depending on reps, intensity, proximity to failure, et cetera. But the ROI is that your bones get denser. That's Wolf's Law. Your tendons and ligaments, they grow. That's Davis's Law. We know that the human body adapts to these things if it's dosed appropriately. Now, of course, there's a role for machines, dumbbells, et cetera, due to preferences. People prefer to do those things. And even it might be the preferred movement outside of personal preferences from my standpoint. If I have a person who, yeah, I can put a bar on their back or whatever and they can squat, but it's really, they don't have a good opportunity to train it. There's not coordinated enough yet to do it. There might be some mobility restrictions. I don't need to force that as a primary means of getting stronger, gaining muscle mass, gaining function. I can use a leg press. That doesn't mean I don't want them to squat at some point and they may do it as a practice sort of thing or just like a general mobility exercise, like a general warmup. I've done all of that. But the leg press is the bread and butter for actually improving function of the lower extremity muscles. And so, yeah, I kind of flip this thing on its head. I view it more as an investment than a cost. And yeah, you can get a pretty good ROI. So my verdict on this is that exercise selection, orthopedic cost, again, lower on the differential as far as the primary cause, I'm saying innocent. The burden of proof has not been met yet. Agree. All right. Suspect number three, we're talking about hyper specialization. We've established that orthopedic cost while made up not really a scientific term, probably not the most likely cause here of injuries. Your knees don't have a finite number of bends before they expire, but there is a kernel of truth here when it comes to exercise selection. If I only do low bar back squats, same stance, same shoes, same tempo, et cetera, for five years straight, is that a risk factor for injury? Is the problem the exercise or is the problem more of hyper specialization? Yeah, there's an important distinction to be made there. The idea from the orthopedic cost discussion is that that movement itself is the problem. That is the thing that we should vilify, that we should avoid at all costs to avoid incurring that cost. But what we observe in practice and through our own experience, and even looking at some of the evidence on this, that when we have this state of what you described as hyper specialization, meaning your training looks relatively monotonous, there's what we call low movement variability. You do the same thing day in and day out, repeatedly say multiple times a week, and oftentimes maybe a little bit too heavy as well, or with too many overall working reps or something like that. That is a different way of stressing the body, and when it is that repeated, then that certainly is a common pathway that leads to these types of aches and pains that I call kind of subacute to chronic, these smoldering things that develop, that we just categorize as generalized overuse syndromes. And it can be quite difficult to help somebody kind of dig their way back out of that hole, particularly if they're, for some reason, very emotionally attached to that particular exercise, or if that is their primary sport, and they feel like the more I do this thing, the better I'm going to be at this thing. Kind of reminds me of some of the discussions we had years ago when that book, I think it was range that came out in terms of specialization versus kind of delaying specialization and building a broader base upfront, and the outcomes that tend to emerge from that across various disciplines. And so we tend to, when working with folks in this situation, broaden out that variation, and rather than keeping them kind of locked into a single repeated movement pattern, and we always make the clear distinction that it is not that this movement is bad, it is that the cumulative dosage that you are being exposed to by doing this and only this too much too often is the thing that we need to modify, and people tend to do great when we address that. Yeah, it's not about avoiding the squat because it's like expensive, uniquely expensive, it's just that you gotta vary the stress a little bit. So for a person who's not a competitive power lifter going to a meet, well let me back up, for a person who's not a competitive power lifter, like you don't need to squat with a bar on your back, you don't need to bench press with the barbell, you don't need a deadlift from the floor. I think all of those exercises are fine choices if you like them, but we don't need to compromise your training so much that all of your lower body movements are either a squat or a deadlift variation, all of your upper body movements are a bench press variation, you don't need to specialize that much, and even for my power lifting clients, I don't do that for the majority of their training year, it's the lead up to the meet. So what do you do instead? Well, there are many different ways to hinge, for example, you can deadlift, you can hip thrust, for example, you could do both sumo and conventional, you could do single leg stuff, for a squat pattern, you could squat certainly with a bar on your back, you can do split squat, unilateral stuff, you can do a leg press, God forbid, you can do body weight work, calisthenic based stuff, all of this stuff can work to improve muscular strength, to increase muscular hypertrophy, to increase general muscular function. So my advice, especially for people who are not barbell sport athletes, very close to a competition where you do wanna specialize is build a broad base of physical development, get good at everything, right? And then if you need to or want to specialize later on, great. So we can use a car analogy here this time that actually works, if you drive your car for 50,000 miles without ever rotating the tires, the tread will wear out a one specific spot until it blows or cords or does something. Now the problem wasn't driving the squat, the problem was you kept the pressure on the exact same square inch or rubber for too long, variation rotates the tires, it spreads the stress across the entire system so that no single spot fails. So exercise selection matters, not because some exercises are quote bad, but because doing the same exercise over and over again increases the risk of an overuse injury, especially if the dose is too high, you agree with that? I guess I'll allow it. You'll allow it, all right. The judge allowed it, verdict for this particular suspect is innocent, so now we have to move on to the next suspect, suspect number four, this is gonna be speed or velocity. So people look at like Olympic weightlifting or CrossFit and they see people moving barbells very quickly. It looks chaotic to the casual person, it looks like Snap City, if they know what Snap City is or where it is. The assumption is that moving slowly like a bodybuilder is safer. Is this based in evidence, Austin? I would challenge people to once again, think like a scientist here and say, if this hypothesis were true, and I compared athletes across certain sports higher velocity, like say weightlifting, versus powerlifting, which is low velocity, then I would expect the weightlifters to have a massively higher rate of injury risk. And then when we look at actual evidence that is examined in this, doesn't seem to support that fear. We end up seeing relatively similar injury rates between these two disciplines, as well as many others that are on the average a bit faster compared with those that are a bit slower. And again, this comes back to this idea of what are you prepared to do? To what task are you most adapted? And so for people who train with speed, with ballistic movements, with explosiveness, they tend to adapt and get better and better at doing that. Now, we have talked about this before, for example, when we get questions about somebody who wants to get into sprinting, because they have heard maybe of some particular benefits of sprinting. And one of the things we tend to tell them is, hey, if you've never sprinted before, going out to a flat track and doing 10 rounds of 100 meter sprints, I have some degree of apprehension, perhaps about how your hamstrings are going to tolerate that effort. You might do okay, but there are probably ways that we can alter that stress to mitigate that risk and help you better prepare to do that thing that you're trying to do. And so we might reduce the overall number of sprints and we might put somebody on an uphill, for example, to mitigate some of those risks to address that issue until they are ready to handle that degree of speed and explosiveness in power generation. And then we can kind of unleash them in a different environment. And we actually don't have the same degree of concern anymore. So it is not intrinsic to that task, but the context has changed in terms of this person's level of preparation for that speed and explosiveness. And then the same thing applies to slower activities. Somebody says, I've never done a one rep max deadlift before. And so suddenly I'm gonna do a one rep max deadlift attempt that is 100 pounds in excess of my all time best lift or something like that. I'm gonna say, maybe don't love how aggressive we're about to be here. It's gonna be slow. And so maybe like, well, slow velocity, it should be safe. And it's like, yeah, it's gonna be quite slow. How prepared are you to do this thing? How close have we gotten to this effort in our training to date? And that's something that we can probably aim to work up to a little bit more progressively rather than jumping all the way up. So the speed itself here is not the variable that leads to our source of concern, but rather what led up to that effort. Yeah, I think we should exonerate speed from the charges. We'll move on to our next suspect. I promise I'm not gonna keep this legal thing going for much longer. We're getting to the end. But suspect number five has gotta be age. Now, this one is my favorite of the entire podcast, mainly cause I just turned 40, you know, and actually got a notice from the age police that I could no longer lift heavy. They said, look, you can't actually deadlift over 600 anymore, you can't certainly squat that much. It's just, you're too old. Be careful, you're not 20 anymore. But the data actually shows an inverse trend here. So multiple studies have shown that younger lifters, so those under the age of 30 actually have higher injury rates than older lifters. There's a few other data sets that make the cut point at 40, which I found very convenient for me. And so when I'm interpreting this data, the data is what it is, right? And so now we have to explain, well, why is this the case? Now, this is some speculation certainly, but I think this is mostly behavioral that younger lifters may be more prone to increase the training load too quickly, right? They have less experience, their training age. If you compare somebody who started training at 20 and now they're 25, compared to somebody who started training at 20, now they're 40, the training age is much different. This old man strength thing is kind of real, right? There's just more experience, there's a little more maturity and more experience with auto regulation, even if you don't call it auto regulation. You go through your warmups, you feel out of the weight isn't moving quite as well as I wanted it today. I'm gonna have to adjust, even if you don't use RPE, Repson Reserve, bar velocity, any of that stuff, you just know it because again, you've been doing it for so long. That said, the callus has been built up over a long period of time.  it is very thick and robust. And so even if there's an error, perhaps there's some protection there. But I don't think that older generally makes people more fragile. It just makes you more experienced. It may actually be protective factor in the gym from those behavioral sort of things here. The possible caveat here is that older folks who are untrained, I'm talking about individuals in their 60s and 70s, they have a lower fitness level. They've been inactive for longer. We generally have to be a little more careful with them when we start their training. And it's mostly from a training load standpoint. And that's because their current fitness is lower. But that would be the same if somebody who was 20 years old, who for whatever other reason had a low level of fitness too. So it's not an age-related thing. It's mostly a fitness-related thing. It just happens to be that most older folks who have previously been inactive, they tend to have a lower fitness level. But that's not really age-related. It's more just a habit thing that we see in society. Totally. I mean, I can think of multiple examples. Obviously, this is getting a bit into the clinical realm. But some of the patients that I've seen, some of the sickest young people who unfortunately had a bad case of some cancer or another. They're in their 20s or 30s and just horrible luck, really sad cases sometimes. And this person is skin and bones, super thin, super weak, super frail. And we're trying to get them up and move around. And if I was to put myself in a situation where I want to decide how to program this person to build some fitness, I'm going to be quite cautious with them off the bat. Whereas somebody who might be double or even triple their age might be able to tolerate much higher amounts of training, no problem if they've been much healthier and active throughout their life in general. This reminds me of the stat you cited at the very beginning when we were comparing across different sports in the context of running in particular, where novice runners had the much higher rate of injury, and then the more experienced and elite runners who are doing way more running volume in general, especially at high levels of running performance. I mean, these folks are running well over 100 mile weeks a lot of the time. But the more experienced runners actually tended to have the lower injury rates, probably because of the accumulated base of fitness that allows them to better tolerate and to match the dose of what they're doing to what they've prepared for, compared with the novice athlete in general. Yeah, but because we bring the nuance here, there is a little wrinkle, I think here, that we should probably address. There's some sort of survivorship bias, survival bias, just amongst elite lifters in general or elite athletes in general. I mean, you see the same relationship between elite Olympic weight lifters and those who are either at the national level or regional level. There's a higher injury risk at the lower level than the higher level. And you're like, well, look, they're lifting heavier weights. They're doing more training load. Why aren't they at his injured? It's like, well, look, something got them there. And whether there's genetic components, behavioral components, other sort of intangible things that reduce injury risk that allow somebody to reach their full potential and be an international level or elite level athlete, there's something at play there. But I don't think that age is a causal sort of risk factor here. And so again, I'm giving it, I'm innocent, innocent until proven otherwise. You agree? Yeah. I mean, older folks, you just need to prepare for what you're trying to do. And that seems to, I'm going to keep hammering that throughout this episode. Yeah, I'm embracing old man strength. All right. A couple more suspects left. This is a fun one, anabolic. So far, we've debunked a few things, but there's one major factor that does seem to spike injury risk. Although not sure how causal this is. The industry doesn't like to talk about it. Anabolic steroids. So to me, I'm going to take on this. It's tricky to kind of separate the signal from the noise. When you look at data here, yes, just by and large, there are more injuries in individuals who use anabolic steroids than don't. And this can be at super physiological doses. So people are legitimately taking high doses, but it also happens in individuals getting TRT and you're like, wait, what? To me, though, when I look at this, it looks like a mismatch problem. So steroids, generally speaking, and not like glucocorticoids, not those steroids you get to tamp down inflammation, for example, or deal with an autoimmune disease, but anabolic steroids make the muscles stronger very quickly. But the adaptation rate of those compared to tendon ligaments, which are much slower, that's a mismatch. It's like putting a Ferrari engine in a Honda Civic. The engine, your muscle produces so much force that the chassis of the Civic, no, no hate comes to a Honda Civic, it literally is mismatched. So my verdict on this, get your take on it, is guilty-ish in that it does seem to be a unique risk factor, particularly at super physiological, super therapeutic doses. But it's not because the steroids themselves do something to the tendon, to the ligament, to the joint that makes it more vulnerable. It just makes people much stronger compared to the adaptation rate of the soft tissues. And there may be some additional motivation from like, I'm on here right now. I should wait to maximize my gains. Yeah, I find it plausible. This is not an area of massive expertise for me, but I find it plausible that we keep talking about this idea of, are you prepared to do the thing you're trying to do? Whereas in this situation, what it ends up coming down to is, these let you do things that you're not prepared for. Right? And so I can see a scenario where somebody might be using these substances, but with, again, proper progression and load management of their training, being more cautious with that over time, recognizing that, oh, this is about to let me do things that I'm not maybe fully ready for, or I might be able to do this before I should do this, to use Dr. Derek Miles' line of, can I do this versus should I do this? That might lead to this issue that you're describing. Yeah. All right. So I'm going to give it a guilty ish, but it has some accomplices. All right. Sure. Suspect number seven is going to be accidents. This is the last one. We spent all this time arguing about biomechanics and shear forces, but actually a huge chunk of gym injuries have nothing to do with lifting at all. We call these gravity events. And so you look at ER data. So a study of emergency room visits showed that 77% of injuries in kids in the gym were just from dropping weights on their feet or pinching their fingers. Now, a lot of gym injuries aren't because they rounded their back during a deadlift. They probably weren't even deadlifting, but they just tripped over a dumbbell, didn't use a collar and the plates lit off, etc. When you look at older individuals, older cohorts, it represents a smaller subset of injuries, somewhere around 20%, depending on who you read and where they got the data from. But still, the gym is a physical place with heavy metal objects that can fall on you and can injure you. So I'm going to say that accidents are guilty. I kind of view this as like a luck sort of thing. Like, yeah, sometimes it do be like that. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Have you ever, I know that both of us have had some experience with dropping stuff on ourselves. None bad enough that it led to something catastrophic that required medical attention or, you know, go into the ER or anything. But here and there, I've definitely like stubbed my toe on a rack or, you know, dropped a, I think a 25, which fortunately did not lead to a broken toe. I don't think I've ever dropped a 45 or a 25 kilo plate on myself. But I suspect you've had some similar experiences. Yeah. I mean, I stubbed my toe, I smashed my finger between plates before, you know, lacerated various things by getting them caught and things in the gym that I'm like, ergonomically, that doesn't make much sense to me. But like that, again, it's just a subset of injuries that occur in the gym. And again, tend to happen in younger people. So again, shout out to old man strength on this one. Yeah. All right. So look, if weight, exercise, selection, speed, movement speed and age aren't the main culprits, well, everyone from there is going to pivot to the holy grail technique. You got hurt because your form broke down. Now, if you ask most coaches, you ask most people why they got hurt, they'll say, well, look, I moved wrong, my form broke down. It's basically the ultimate scapegoat. But Austin, when we actually look at the scientific literature on this, is there even an agreed upon definition of what quote, good technique actually is? Yeah, much like definitions of injury or definitions of what quote, unquote, good posture is, there is not clear consensus on this. And I think that we've talked about this at seminars before where you've cited this 2009 systematic review that defined proper technique. And I'll just pause for dramatic effect here as performing exercise that maximizes adaptations and minimizes injury risk, which is kind of a worthless definition, right? It's like, yeah, we want an exercise that gives us the good stuff and none of the bad stuff. And we'll call that good at good exercise. So it's pretty circular definition that ends up not being terribly useful when it comes to application or identifying, you know, what might be quote unquote, good technique or bad technique, because you can only really determine it retrospectively. But even then, it doesn't mean that the person exercise good technique, if you're going to have something, because it's possible to do an exercise and move in all sorts of ways with a movement technique that by and large, we might not consider ideal and to not get injured from it. So that it did not cause an injury does not necessarily imply that it was good. So it's kind of a useless circular definition that we don't actually tend to use in our practice. What do you think? Yeah, I agree. It seems like a tautology to me. It's just like, oh, look, you perform an exercise and you got some gains from it, but you didn't hurt yourself. The technique was good. You're sure about that. Yeah. Yeah. And it is interesting to me that only one study actually is like taking a stab at this despite everybody talking about good technique, perfect technique. It's the way to really mitigate your injury risk. So maybe it's like a justice Potter thing, you know, to go back to the legal stuff. We know bad technique when we see it. And so we assume that quote, good technique means looking like a robot that every rep looks identical down to the millimeter. And if you deviate from that robotic path, well, that's an error. Austin, does the data support the idea that elite lifters move like robots? Yeah, this gets back to the mechanical kind of model of movement and, you know, exercise technique and things like that. And this is super intuitive to people. You will see all the time, for example, people in the lifting space who say your goal should be to make every single rep look as identical as possible. And it's like, it sounds good. And it's a, you know, it's a reasonable hypothesis. But if we actually look at how people move, even at a very high level of sport, it tends to not actually be that way. So there's this concept called dynamic systems theory that we've actually talked about. This was now years ago, I think when we last talked about this topic of movement variation. But the idea here is that there's this relationship between the person, their body, their psychology, their, you know, movement patterning and things like that. There's the environment that they're in. And there is what is the actual task that they're trying to do. And in particular, what are the unique constraints of that task? So one simple example could be if you are trying to back squat with a barbell, and the constraint that we're going to put in place is that that barbell is going to have no weight on it. You are not terribly constrained. You are able to move in all sorts of ways. And people can what we'll call self organize, which means that they are able to with repeated practice and essentially identifying a pattern of movement that is comfortable, is tolerable. Of course, a lot sometimes people might need a little bit of coaching if they're more on the beginner side, but over time, people do tend to self organize and identify things that you'll hear from described as working better for them, or if they've often experimented with different styles of movement, they have kind of self identified some of these things. Now, if we change the task constraint to say that instead of no weight on the bar, we're going to put 500 pounds on the bar suddenly, there are many fewer options in terms of ways that the person can successfully move that weight. So the constraints put in place, or alternatively, if I change the environment, maybe I put them on a different planet with a very different gravitational pull or something like that, then that would also change what are the movement options available to the person. And so that is the concept where these different aspects can interact to lead to the kind of what we'll call emergent aspect, what emerges in terms of the way the person moves, and how they tolerate it and how they adapt to it and how they kind of organize over time. I know you've looked at some data on high level athletes and how they move and found some surprising findings. You want to summarize those? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even elite athletes, when they actually measure them using like pretty high tech, like motion capture software, they move differently. Each time they do a rep, it can be 75% of the one rep max on a back squat. It could be 90% of their one rep max on a back squat or deadlift. There's significant variability from rep to rep in all three planes, right, in three dimensions. And it's like, well, look, if they you would expect elite lifters, these were international level lifters, that they would be able to do it like a robot. Everything's the same, every single rep, but it's not. And certainly they're trying to do so, right? This is a very like, this is kind of a social construct, like people want to do this because they believe it to be better, more efficient, but that's not really the case. And so I think the takeaway here is that variability isn't an error. It's just a strategy. Body is a complex system of millions of parts itself organizes differently. Every rep to solve the problem, that's to lift the weight. If you try to force a lifter to move sort of invariably, like a robot, it might increase injury risk because you're preventing the tissues from sharing the load to moving into a more powerful or stronger position, something that's more ready to do the task with the constraints that are being given. So we're not like robots. We're more like biological jazz musicians. We improvise slightly every rep and that's a feature, not a bug. All right, one last thing before we move on. Look, if safe lifting technique, bend at the knees, keep your back straight, actually worked, we would expect warehouse workers who get trained in this or nurses, for example, who get trained in this to have fewer back injuries, right? Apparently not. We have huge data sets on this where employers spend millions of dollars teaching workers how to lift properly. But the result is that there's nearly zero evidence that this training prevents back pain, disability, days missed at work. We've tried to quote technique our way out of back pain or back injuries in the workplace for 40 years or more in the workplace, and it's basically failed completely. Why? Well, back pain and pain in general is complex. It's not just lifting correctly. It's not a geometry problem. It's just more nuanced than that. So if the definition for quote perfect form is circular and we don't and we shouldn't move like robots and workplace safety training doesn't really work, what the hell are we supposed to do, Austin? I think that we've been hammering the key message throughout this episode so far. And I think it's probably time to start to, as the as people I hear saying more and more often on podcasts these days, we need to land the plane and start to bring this together into a useful kind of practical model. And it comes down to differentiating and to some degree like destigmatizing the concept of bad form or bad technique as people commonly identify it and kind of reframing that as more of an inefficiency in movement that can potentially be rectified, improved, whether by coaching or by continued practice in this concept of self-organization. We've also reframed the idea of like, well, what is the actual risk at play of moving in this way? And of course, there are a lot of variables that inform that risk. How prepared are you for doing the thing you're trying to do? How much in excess of your current capacity is this thing that you're trying to do in this way? And that is again, where we're going to continue to bring our attention back. I am, I would love to see people trying to move in all sorts of different ways and experimenting particularly early on in their athletic training, lifting journey, exploring all the different ways that their body can move, slow, fast, unilateral, bilateral, explosive, slow, things like that and end up doing this long-term self-organization process. Eventually, the beauty of it is as you do this, and as you get feedback, both like what we'll call inter-acceptive feedback, you're at what you feel inside. Or if you get coaching and external feedback, and we can kind of gradually organize this over time, you end up developing the preferred ways that you can move best and you can build that capacity and you can achieve great things by doing that. And you can do it without needing to think so hard about every single rep. This is why if you put a bar on your back or my back or in our hands and ask us to squat it or bench it, or if you still now, a decade later throw me in a pool and ask me to swim a lap, I can do it with quite good technique and it does not require a whole lot of active thinking or queuing or worrying about details because of the sheer amount of practice and exposure and self-organization that we've had kind of along the way, including I'm sure lots of reps that did not look quote unquote pretty or optimal per current kind of social, you know, concepts of those things. Yeah. Well, I think we've sufficiently burned the house of technique down. So we got to build something in its place. And we need something that's more like a compass and not a rulebook. And so the model that we've been using for exercise technique is called the rep model. It's an acronym. It stands for repeatable, efficient, and that the exercise or the style that you're using, it meets the points of performance. So repeatable means that the individual should perform the exercise in a way where the range of motion, the joint angles, the movement velocity, the tempo, and the overall movement pattern is there's somewhat similar rep to rep. Now, of course, individuals move differently from one another and when the analysis is constrained to a single person from rep to rep. Thus, we're going to accept some rep to rep variability, though the range of motion, the joint angles, the velocity and the tempo should remain fairly similar. That means that your squats should mostly look like squats throughout the set and not squat, squat, squat, good morning, for example. The movement should also be efficient in that it should maximize performance for a given level of energy and effort. In other words, an individual should aim for a technique that minimizes muscular force production that does not contribute to completion of the task. So in a deadlift, for example, if the bar starts way out in front of you and you have to expend all this energy to roll it back, get it into position, and then lift it, that's not very efficient. You can see this when people's hips move up or down prior to the bar leaving the floor, for example. And then finally, the P of the rep model that the movement style meets the points of performance. So these are like pre-specified constraints, like are we going to squat below parallel? Are we going to pause at the bottom? Are we going to use a specific tempo? Is it going to be very fast? Ultimately, these are pre-specified to meet the goals of an exercise. So what do you want to get out of it? A lot of these things are arbitrary, but still, that's the end of the rep model. And Austin, you'll note that this model intentionally avoids advocating for specific anatomical relationships, like the knees have to stay behind the toes. You've got to maintain a, quote, neutral spine. Why do you think that I left that out if you had to guess? Yeah, I think that because those are not pertinent variables at play here, I think that we allow the constraints of the task to inform those anatomic relationships rather than prescribing the anatomic relationships ahead of time. So for example, if you said that anytime you lift a weight from the floor, you need to maintain a neutral spine. Well, suddenly, you have to forfeit the atlas stone lift when you go to your strongman competition. It is literally not possible to do that movement with a neutral spine, completely not possible. That is inherent to that task because of the constraints of lifting a heavy ball off the ground. For example, we also know that if you perform a deadlift or if you perform a squat, even when visually it looks like your back is flat when this is actually measured using more advanced bio, biomechanical measurement techniques that people spines are in fact, flexing is unavoidable to some extent. So trying to prescribe these anatomic relationships ahead of time is not only unhelpful, but many times makes certain tasks impossible. Rather, we apply this model and the task constraints and then allow the person to explore kind of what we'll call the movement space, the options that they have available to them. And in particular, when it's a situation where we're introducing it, it generally is going to start out with lower loading, right, where they have more of those options. And then as we progressively load it over time, then yes, the available movement space, the number of options they have available to them will narrow the heavier it gets to improve that efficiency once they've had sufficient exposure and practice and adaptation to that task or preparation for what they're trying to do. So the task constraints are what inform this kind of self-organization more than us organizing the lifter into the positions that we want them to be in. Yeah, and oh, by the way, those positions are going to change over time. The individuals get stronger, their individual strengths and weaknesses and movement preferences and understanding of the constraints, all that stuff changes almost like in perpetuity as long as you keep going. So these things are going to change and so does technique. But ultimately, if it's repeatable, if it's relatively efficient and it meets the arbitrary pre-specified points of performance based on your goals, you're probably good. You don't need to worry about technique anymore. So where do we leave this? We started this episode with the image of an influencer drawing red lines on a squad and screaming snap city. They sell you on the idea that you're a fragile machine, a car with a bad alignment, a ticking time bomb waiting to explode. But today we looked at the evidence and we found out that narrative is a lie. We learned that pain does not equal tissue damage and that most injuries in the gym aren't catastrophic. We learned that your spine is not like a brake pad that wears out. It's the living system that adapts, builds a callus when you load it. And we learned that the usual suspects such as heavy weight, moving at a fast velocity and age, well, they're mostly innocent. Now the industry wants you to believe that the biggest risk in the gym is rounding your back when you deadlift. But the data proves that the biggest risk is actually the no-cebo effect, letting someone convince you that you are broken. The second biggest risk is load management, trying to spend a budget that you haven't earned yet. And the third is hyper-specialization, never rotating the tires and letting a hotspot develop. So here are your marching orders. It's time to stop playing defense and start playing offense. Number one, stop optimizing for quote safety by avoiding specific exercises. You're safer in the squat rack than you are on the soccer field and using a wide range of exercises is like an expansion pack for your physical abilities. Number two, stop trying to move like a robot. Use the rep model. If it's repeatable, efficient, and meets the points of performance for the exercise, your technique is probably good enough. Instead of focusing on technique, focus on executing your reps with maximum intent. And number three, manage the dose. Avoid doing too much too soon. Most of your work should not be maximal, particularly on compound exercises. While it's not risky to lift heavy per se, going too close to failure too often can be tough to recover from. Most of your work should be done in the RPE 6-8 range. Build the callus, not the blister. Now we know that this is a massive mindset shift. It is scary to ignore the red lines. And to help you navigate this, we have created the Barbell Medicine Injury Risk Action Plan. It's free. It's in the show notes below, and it's waiting for you right now. Download it, immunize yourself against the BS, and let's get strong. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: Can You Make the Same GainzZz Lifting Lighter Weights When Fatigued？ [mdfl8aUD844].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Can lower weights produce similar adaptations if pre-feteed when the RPE is the same? I think this question is like if you're fatigued, right, or otherwise your performance potential is lower on a given day, can reduce the reduced load that you're necessarily having to use to maintain RPE drive similar adaptations than if you had a high performance day, but RPE is still the same. My answer to that is yeah, IMean that's the whole point of using RPE is that you get the correct dose of trening stress to drive the fitness adaptations that you want. And so you want something that's the same level of exertion at the same rep scheme, you know, same rest intervals because that's going to produce the same or similar adaptations. And when you go look in the literature there's a much wider range of acceptable trening intensities that drive in this case strength adaptations. And when you talk about high-purchary adaptations, that gets even wider which is why you can have very rep schemes that will produce high-purchary fees. So I think the easiest way to think about this is to consider the converse scenario where you don't lower the weight when you're extremely fatigued, right? It stays real heavy and then it's just a lot harder. You're probably not able to do the same number of reps or if you are again the RPE maybe instead of being seven it's 11. That is very obviously going to generate different adaptations as well as generating way more of what we called previously the negative kind of consequences the fatigue cost and things like that. So if you just imagine the other scenario where you just ignore the effects of fatigue and you just throw the weight on the bar anyway that's obviously going to generate different adaptations and different costs compared to adjusting the weight based on where your performance is at that time. Yeah it's just putting too much of an emphasis on the absolute load because it's like the whole reason for using RPE is to effectively arrive at a similar intensity like relative intensity on a given day with changing performance. So it's like let's say that the RPE that you're using for the reps scheme is you know once you do use somewhere between 70 to 75% of your one-rette and on a day when you have high level of performance that happens to be heavier. Yeah but on a day when you have reduced level of performance it's lower. It's like okay it was still 70 to 75% just your one-art M change for the day.

=== FILE: Cholesterol Meds, Training Volume vs. Intensity, & Pilates ｜ Q&A w⧸ Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum [wYtM-7i9F5M].txt ===

 alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright alright be a dad? Unclear. We'll have to ask the audience members here. So in any case, party pats. What's your question caller? What is your favorite cholesterol reducing medication for the gen pop? Should I try to get the crazy monoclonal antibody that blocks the LDL receptor reuptake protein? No. So you're talking about a PCSK9 inhibitor, although the study just came out, I believe it was last week for where it showed that a PCSK9 inhibitor was good for primary prevention in heart disease. Basically means if you've never had a heart attack, it actually prevents people from having a heart attack or there was major adverse cardiac events due to how powerful it and how the large magnitude of cholesterol lowering from that. That said, most people would do fine with a statin. It's very cheap, easy to get. Now, if the question is, do you need it? Depends on your risk. And so, yeah, there's a lot to that. We've published a lot on cholesterol lowering. And so just briefly, when you think about cholesterol and its risk towards heart disease, in this case, the risk is proportional to the exposure. Basically, that means the higher your atherogenic load and the longer you've been exposed to it, the more risk you're going to get from cholesterol. And actually, in this case, the lipoproteins that carry the cholesterol around the body. And specifically, we're talking about things like LDL, triglycerides, and anything that has an apolipoprotein B on it. That's your atherogenic load. And so the higher, the more particles that you have. So the higher the count and the longer you're exposed to that without any sort of mitigation, the worse it is. And it seems like the lower it goes, the better. And we're talking about lowering levels down to, you know, neonate levels. So I don't know what your levels are. And this is not medical advice. This is edutainment, but lower is better. And people will invariably say, no, look at this study. It's an observational study. It shows that people with lower cholesterol levels tend to, there's more mortality there. They die sooner. And that is because there are medical conditions that actually, by virtue of that medical condition, cause low cholesterol, like cancers, for example, will tend to cause a lowering of cholesterol levels. But when we see people who have genetic mutations that actually keeps their cholesterol levels low for their lifetime, they have the lowest risk of heart disease, period. So lower is better. Whether or not you need a medication, that's something you should take up with your physician. I don't think starting with the PCSK9 inhibitor is what I would do. I'd probably favor a statin plus or minus ezetimibe if someone needs it or something like that. But yeah, you know, some people would benefit from a PCSK9 inhibitor as well. David Rodriguez, 168. Hey doc, why are a lot of fitness influencers like I think that was autocorrect advocating for very low volume training to failure? Is this trend because of because high intensity is greater than hypertrophy? I think what this question is getting at is, is higher intensity more productive than higher volume training for hypertrophy? And I would just say simply, no, that's not really the case. Both factors are related. And so I think about this as almost like a functional threshold for hypertrophy training, for example, there is no like minimum intensity, meaning that you could theoretically train with like as low as 30% of your one rep max or as heavy as, you know, 90%, 85% of your one rep max. So really anything between like three and 23 and 25, three and 30 reps, if you're doing, you know, blood flow restriction stuff at the, at the high end. Um, the point is you have to get somewhere in your failure, right? And we're talking at least, you know, four or five reps, uh, uh, left before you would, you would get to task failure. Um, and so at that point, if once you're at that threshold, then the relationship that you see between training and hypertrophy is a dose dependent relationship between volume, the higher the volume is generally the more hypertrophy people get provided that they can tolerate it. And usually there's like an on-ramp where people are sort of getting used to it or accommodating, um, towards the training load. And then they start growing, or at least we can actually pick up the muscle growth a few weeks, a few weeks in. So like week three, week four, that's when you can kind of detect it. Some of that's due to the testing issue. Um, like how do you actually just measure, um, very small minute amounts of hypertrophy, but yeah, that, that's kind of what happens. Now, once you get North of, you know, uh, it's definitively high volume and admittedly, there's no consensus on what is low volume, what is moderate volume, what is high volume? We're all just kind of making it up. But when you think about doing more than let's say 15 sets per week, 20 sets per week certainly would qualify. At that point, volume, the volume lever has been kind of pulled, right? It's been pulled. And for hypertrophy at that point, then intensity is the other lever that you'd want to pull. And so taking more of those sets closer to failure would probably get you more hypertrophy than adding more volume. Um, so that's, that's the thing there, but advising people to do low volume intensity or low volume, um, training to failure to be, uh, being superior to higher volume training at that functional threshold, that is not consistent with the research. So it's an option. Um, just not like an optimal one. And, and, you know, generally speaking, when I'm thinking about programming, I want people to do as much training as possible, right? And the two biggest bottlenecks are time. Um, and then their physiological tolerance. So logistical tolerance time mostly, and then physiological tolerance, how much can they recover from more training, generally speaking, more training load specifically, um, generates more fitness adaptations, more health adaptations, and so on and so forth. So doing less than that can work, but there's still, you're leaving gains on the table. Chris and Zari, what is the ideal way to regulate volume adjust based on if I'm seeing progressive overload or not? Ooh, yeah, there's a lot to unpack here. So regulating volume, um, insinuates that there's some sort of dynamic adjustment that needs to be made, um, throughout a micro cycle. So like one week of training or a mesocycle. So like a training block. Uh, and I don't know that that has to happen. There are ways to do that. Uh, so for example, I could prescribe a workup to a set of five reps on the squat at RP seven, and then do three more back offsets. Uh, but terminate the set once you hit RP six. And so on a good day, you're going to do more reps, more volume than on a day where your performance is down. That's one way to regulate volume. I like doing that. If somebody's training resources and recovery resources are more dynamic, um, that said the total volume doesn't actually change that much. And a person who's going to like a powerlifting meet, for example, and who presumably has a lot of resources to train. Sometimes I worry that we're not getting enough training volume. And so in that case, I would do an alternative prescription, five reps at RP seven, then do 20 total, uh, more reps. No set, uh, is higher than RP seven, adjust the reps per set, um, to, to meet that RPE cap. So that's how I would do it. Like within a micro cycle or a mesocycle, uh, over the course of like a training year or training career, volume is one of the biggest levers that we can pull to sort of manage training load. Cause over time, you're going to need more training load to match your new level of fitness provided it's going up. But if your fitness level is going down, then you'll need less training load. Sometimes that happens, various things that come up in life. And so how do you know when you need to increase training load? And I think the main things that you need to focus on, um, is one, am I still making progress or not? If you are making progress, it's really challenging for me to want to recommend a change period, any change. So carry, carry on. Uh, we're assuming that that improvement and progress is real and not an artifact. And so what I mean by that is, you know, day to day, your performance, my performance, everybody on this, you know, Instagram live, their performance oscillates. It ebbs and flows. It goes up and down within, uh, you know, uh, some non-zero percentage range. There's a ceiling and a floor, right? And I think based on the data right now that we have, it's probably somewhere between plus 5% and minus 5%. That's your kind of normal range. And so I would expect people over a three week, four week, more weeks period. If the program's working for them, their strength should trend up, uh, above that sort of ceiling. So if anything greater than a 5% gain in strength, I tend to think is real, just like anything more than a 5% loss in strength that persists more than one session, I believe that is likely to be real. Um, so we can call that our minimal clinically important difference in strength because anything less than that, I think is mostly artifact, right? So if someone is seeing progress, I'm probably not changing the training. If over four weeks, five weeks, six weeks, they're not really seeing progress. Uh, then I start wondering, okay, are they overdone? Are they overcooked? Right? Uh, are we cooked chat or, uh, do they, are they not, uh, generated enough training stress from their current training load? And so you'd think about how's that, how are they sleeping? How's their motivation, any injuries, things of that nature? Uh, or do they feel fatigued or they sore all the time? And so you kind of got to weave your way through this little bit of the art of programming. And it's an educated guess based on the, that sort of information. Um, and so if you think the person is doing well with the training, they're ready, most of their sessions, you know, session RP four or five, something low, they're not really sore. They're sleeping well. They're highly motivated to train. Um, no real injuries to speak of their environment is resource rich. They're ready to go. They probably could use more training load and volume is one way to increase that. If on the other hand, they're super sore, very fatigued, tired, not motivated, burnout, whatever. It's like, maybe the training load is actually too high and we got to dial it down. Um, so that, uh, that is how I would, you know, you can use volume to adjust that. That's one parameter of many, right? Including intensity, proximity to failure, exercise selection. There's a lot of different changes here. And so in the new low fatigue, uh, template, the second generation, I got a few pages on kind of how I think about this. Um, that was maybe what a few minutes. Uh, but yeah, there's more in that ebook that accompanies those programs and you can see how that actually shakes out in a real program. Um, so I would reference that if you have more questions on this. All right. The, the, the votes are in the stash works. We're going to keep it through November. It is no shave November. So, you know, we'll see how unruly this thing gets. Um, if you're just joining us, just quick little plug way RX is back in stock. Um, it's in my mind, you know, we obviously don't do much advertising for our supplements, but the reason why we have a supplement line, uh, is not to get rich. In fact, I think some of the interactions that we have with other professionals or even people who, uh, just interface with professionals on a regular basis. They're like, why do you have a supplement line? To them, it's a red flag. They're like, what are you just a grifter? You just, you know, Hawkins supplements. Well, the point is the supplement industry is not very good. And you guys all know that the regulation around the industry is, is suboptimal and people put products out there that are not very good. Um, and so you'd want any supplement that you're taking to not only have evidence of efficacy, um, in humans, but also a really good risk profile. So low risk. And then you'd also want it to be not contaminated. So to make sure that it doesn't have anything that you don't want in there, um, when you buy it. And so to do our best and to do your best, you'd want to get supplements that are manufactured in a GMP accredited facility. You'd want ones that are batch tested by a third party organization. Um, NSF, uh, informed sport. That's what we use. Um, USP. Those are the main players in the, in the United States. Uh, and then you'd want something that doesn't have any proprietary blends. And you'd also want a supplement that, uh, has the correct amount of stuff that you want in there. So our protein is very simple, 90 calories, whey protein isolate, handful of ingredients. Um, it is priced it to be honest, not it's cheaper than it should be. We're the cheapest whey protein isolate, um, out there. And, uh, that is third party tested that is manufactured in GMP accredited facility and it's 90 calories. Um, and people say, Oh, I can get it at Costco. I'm like, you can't get this at Costco. You cannot get a comparable product at Costco. It's just different. Um, no shade towards Costco protein if you use that, but if you're in the market for protein, you want to support what we do here at Barbell Medicine, you go to barbellmedicine.com, check out our way RX. Uh, if you want to stock up, there you go. All right. Gustavo underscore son is Pilates a valuable thing to add to training for a normal, healthy person who weight trains. Yeah, this is a great question. We have a podcast, uh, that I did on Pilates reviewing the evidence on it and its history and whatever. Um, it is not good for virtually anything that people do exercise for. And what I mean by that, if you think about resistance training, what is the purpose of resistance training? Well, we want, um, improved muscle quality, muscle function increases the muscle mass. So strength, hypertrophy, power, um, bone mineral density, uh, right. So all of these sort of, uh, we're applying resistance training to the human body to get all of these outcomes. Pilates is not good for that. Um, it's not good for strength, not good for hypertrophy, not good for bone mineral density because it doesn't load the skeleton enough. Um, it's not good for that. It's not good for generating cardio, respiratory, cardio respiratory fitness either. And so I view it as an accoutrement. If somebody is meeting or exceeding, ideally exceeding the current physical activity guidelines, and they want to do Pilates on top of that, that's fine. It's mostly like a, something that they enjoy doing. It's kind of like any other recreational activity. That's how I view Pilates. It's not a training modality. It's like recreation, which is fine. If somebody is asking me, look, if I did Pilates instead of doing more training, which is likely to get me better results and they, and by results, they mean muscle mass, muscle strength, bone mineral density, muscle power, uh, balance coordination, whatever related to, uh, producing force in a coordinated manner. Well, it's not very good. It's not, doesn't mean Pilates is bad. It's just, it's good at getting better at Pilates. That's it. And it's great physical activity. Um, just like anything else. So yeah, I view it as an accoutrement. Um, but I don't, uh, I don't recommend it to replace, um, real exercise. And that's maybe the most shade I'll throw at Pilates. I don't, I think it's fine. I've done Pilates before. Yes, it can be hard. There are a lot of hard things that people can do that don't really contribute to fitness. Um, Pilates is, is one of them at this time. Um, but yeah, certainly better than no activity, just not enough to qualify as strength training, not enough to improve muscle mass, not enough to improve cardiorespiratory fitness. Yeah. Just recreation. Daniel Sarp is zone two cardio really that amazing for cardiorespiratory fitness and health. Um, simple answer. No, uh, longer answer. It could be. The thing is this, if someone is advertising zone two is like this panacea that you should only do your cardio zone two because it has the most robust effect on health. We would need some better evidence to show that to be the case. And in fact, a recent data, a recent study came out showing that, um, higher intensity than zone two would be, is more efficient at improving health than moderate intensity. So they found the vigorous physical activity, um, you know, depending on the health condition, uh, or, uh, medical condition that you're assessing risk on, um, vigorous intensity, physical activity was, you know, four times, five times, nine times as effective as moderate intensity, physical activity, which zone two would fall into. It doesn't mean that zone two is bad. Zone two can be very good. So it can be useful when people are doing high volumes of conditioning. Um, and what I mean by that is like, they're doing way more than the current physical activity guidelines, which is at least 150 minutes per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity. And so, um, if somebody is not doing, you know, a couple of, you know, three hours, four hours, five hours of cardio, uh, per week, endurance training per week, then I don't think it matters if they're doing a bunch of zone two stuff. I think it can be useful to, to work up the training load, the training volume, because it's not very fatiguing. Um, so you can do more of it, but I still would expose people generally to some higher intensity work. You know, 80, 20 is the traditional rule. 80% should be low and slow, moderate intensity, 20% would be a higher intensity, but that's only for people that are doing a lot of cardio work. If someone's only doing 60 minutes, 90 minutes, two hours, 120 minutes per week, I don't think it matters. This doesn't mean I would do only sprints, but I think more vigorous activity. So it's zone three, zone four. Yeah, it's all, it's all fine. Uh, but if somebody, if we're like directly comparing three hours per week of zone two versus three hours of zone three, I don't think there's a difference in outcomes. Three hours of zone two versus three hours of zone four. I don't think there's a difference. That's probably too much of the higher intensity work for, for some folks just to tolerate. So, but that's, that's not unique to like the, the training, uh, intensity so much as it is the total training load, like how much and what intensity that you're doing to that.

=== FILE: Defining and Prescribing Zone 2 Cardio Is Complicated! [mWU3-RQRGsQ].txt ===

нене – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – AC – there's been a lot of hype around zone two cardio, for example. And I think that most people do not appreciate the limitations we have at actually identifying, yep, this is definitively zone two. And maybe it's importance. And so because people just say, oh, zone two, it's this heart rate, for example. I'm like, oh, for everybody? And there's no consideration of like individual characteristics. Are you sure? How confident are you in that? They're like, ah, I'm pretty confident. I'm like, okay, maybe you should adjust that. All right. So let's talk about some background information here. In conditioning, intensity refers to the metabolic demand of the activity. Now, whether expressed in absolute or relative terms, intensity determines the nature of the physiological stress and individual experiences during exercise, which influences the type of fitness and health adaptations obtained from exercise. For these reasons, exercise prescription should consider intensity based on the expected physiological stress and metabolic demand of the activity for the individual. Now, the current exercise guidelines recommend that all adults complete some combination of at least 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity conditioning each week, where moderate intensity conditioning exercise correlates to 3.0 to 5.9 metabolic equivalents and vigorous intensity activities are greater than six metabolic equivalents. For completeness, the latest adult compendium of physical activity classifies sedentary activities as 1.0 to 1.5 metabolic equivalents, which just for those listening at home, that means there's a gap. What happens between 1.6 and 2.9 metabolic equivalents? What is that? Just a no man's land? No one knows. Right. Is that just light intensity? I guess so, based on the current compendium. So in a research setting where oxygen consumption can be directly measured, yeah, METs are probably a suitable instrument for characterizing intensity of an activity. They can also be used in conjunction with exercise duration to calculate total conditioning exercise load in metabolic MET minutes, with the current guidelines targeting a minimum of 500 to 1,000 MET minutes per week for public health. Outside of these settings, however, I don't think either of us would be on board with using MET-based prescriptions. They're often unpredictable between individuals due to differences in fitness levels, age, medical concerns, training experience, economy of movement, genetics, and more. So for example, cycling at 10 miles an hour does not result in the same physiological stress in a young elite cyclist compared to an untrained older individual. And that's very intuitive, although there is a study that actually measured that. You can read about that in the show notes below. I linked it there. Lastly, metabolic equivalents are not easy to understand or monitor by patients or physicians. I think if you ask a physician who's, you know, not familiar with exercise prescription what a metabolic equivalent is, what it stands for, they'd be like, I don't know. Something that happens on a stress test is probably the answer that you would get from them. 100%. So there are a number of other parameters that correlate with exercise intensities, like heart rate, blood lactate levels, oxygen consumption rate, and respiration rate, breathing rate, to name a few. And so we can think about the intensity of conditioning exercise to be this continuum ranging from rest to maximal with light, moderate, and vigorous intensity exercise in between. There are a number of thresholds on this continuum that may be useful for exercise prescription. So the first threshold that I want to discuss is the transition between non-exercise physical activity and exercise. Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by the musculoskeletal system that results in energy expenditure above the basal metabolic rate, whereas exercise, in contrast, is a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, goal-directed towards improving physical fitness. Most activities of daily life would count as physical activity, not exercise. It has been suggested that exercise activities start at about 50% of someone's VO2 max or 60% of their maximum heart rate. For the five-zone model of conditioning, right, where zone two has kind of gotten all this hype, this would be the start of zone one. So below this exercise intensity would just be like regular physical activity, activities, daily life, but it wouldn't count as exercise. Now the next threshold is the aerobic threshold. And when determined by blood lactate levels, this is sometimes called lactate threshold number one, which occurs at exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise to about two millimoles per liter. Lactate levels are otherwise stable because the body is producing and processing it or clearing it at a steady state. Now when measured by respiratory rates, so how fast someone's breathing, this is called the first ventilatory threshold since breathing rate has increased compared to resting values. Typical heart rates at this point range between like 65 to 80% of maximal heart rate, although this can vary significantly between individuals. And zone two in the five-zone model is right before this threshold. That's important. Remember that. So right before the aerobic threshold, that's the top of zone two. Once you pass the aerobic threshold, it's probably more zone three in that five-zone model. The final threshold that I want to talk about on this continuum going from rest to maximal intensity conditioning exercise is the anaerobic threshold, which occurs at an exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise even higher as the body is unable to process it quickly enough for removal to keep it at a steady state. Again, when measured by blood lactate levels, this point is also often called lactate threshold number two, and lactate levels are often four millimoles per liter or higher. This point is also called the second ventilatory threshold when measured by the respiratory exchange ratio, which measures the amount of carbon dioxide produced compared to oxygen consumed. Typical heart rates here at this threshold are about 85 to 95% of maximal heart rate, which again varies significantly between individuals. Exercise performed below this anaerobic threshold, but above aerobic threshold, that represents vigorous intensity exercise, whereas exercise above this anaerobic threshold would be considered maximal intensity. So for your five-zone model people, zones three and zone four are below the anaerobic threshold, but above the aerobic threshold, and zone five is above the anaerobic threshold. Just to summarize, exercise starts at around 60% of maximum heart rate. Below that's just like regular non-exercise physical activity. This is the start of zone one in the five-zone model. Moderate intensity exercise is below the aerobic threshold, but above the threshold when exercise begins. This is zones one and two in the five-zone model. Vigorous intensity exercise is above the aerobic threshold, but below the anaerobic threshold. Again, this is zones three and four in the five-zone model, and then maximal intensity exercise is above the anaerobic threshold. This is zone five. Does that sound, you on board with me so far? Tracking. Tracking. All right. So how does all of this apply to zone training, specifically zone two? Well, there's a bunch of different models here for exercise intensity. There's a three-zone, right, light, moderate, vigorous, or heavy. There's a five-zone model. We just kind of talked about that in some detail. There are even seven and eight-zone models. Now, here's the important thing. There are no agreed-upon definitions or cut points for any of these things, which makes it challenging to not only discuss, right, because what I call zone two, somebody else might call zone three, and there's just no like agreed-upon consensus here. Other than maybe those aerobic and anaerobic thresholds, those seem to be pretty well agreed upon. But as far as how all the zones kind of shake out relative to those thresholds, yeah, that's more controversial at this time. But all the hype around zone two training, as well as this current paper, uses the five-zone model, and we'll focus on that. Now, using the five-zone model, zone two is considered the aerobic endurance zone. It's typically done continuously, so interval training typically doesn't occur here. It's usually in that RPE three to six range if using a 10-point RPE scale, and it's, again, below the aerobic threshold. With respect to heart rate, zone two is likely somewhere in the 70 to 80% max heart range, maximum heart rate range, but there are large error bars on either side of that, because individuals vary greatly, which is what this paper focuses on. To summarize, this study aimed at analyzing the extent of variability in the most commonly applied reference values for heart rate, blood lactate, and breathing rate for zone two conditioning. They basically took 50 experienced cyclists, 30 women, 20 men, and they had them visit the lab twice. Now, all of this testing was done on bikes, and they basically measured a number of physiological variables that have been used to define zone two intensity in various different research settings. So, for example, they measured, hey, look, what was the power output at 72% of maximum heart rate? What was it at 82% of the maximum heart rate? Thinking that 72% to 82%, that's zone two for sure. They measured, what was the power output at blood lactate levels of 1.5 millimoles per liter, or 2 millimoles per liter, or 2.5 millimoles per liter. Again, trying to figure out, like, what's the power output here? Is it consistent between these different variables? They measured the power output at 65% of VO2 peak. Now, I say VO2 peak, and people are like, is that VO2 max? It's slightly different because it is the maximum VO2 that was obtained in a particular test, but it's not maybe the maximum VO2 value that someone could ever achieve in any test. So, it's slightly different but related. They also measured what was the power output at the first ventilatory threshold? What about the power output at the maximum fat oxidation rate? Because, in theory, in a perfect world, all of these variables would be pretty close to one another. They'd all have a similar sort of power output because they're all used to define the same thing. They would also be relatively similar between individuals for prescriptive purposes, meaning like a blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter would be at a similar VO2 peak, heart rate, and relative intensity between individuals. Because if you're going to prescribe zone 2 training, it should be generalizable. Do you want to predict the results of this, Dr. Baraki? I think it'll be the hallmark of human biology, which involves lots of variation. Huge variation between individuals for all of these physiological variables. So, for example, blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter, which again is mostly accepted to be that sort of aerobic threshold, right? And so just above the top of zone 2, that had an average of an 83% max heart rate. That's what it correlated to. But it ranged from about 75% to 93% of people's heart rate max. So, if someone had a target heart rate, that may not correlate accurately with a blood lactate level of 2. Now, which is better? A blood lactate level of 2, is that more accurately definitive of zone 2, or is a heart rate more accurate for defining zone 2? At a 72% max heart rate, well, that ranged from 35% peak power to 80% peak power. So, wildly different intensities. If someone had a target wattage to be in zone 2, for example, their heart rate could be all over the place. So, which is better? A target power output, right? Which is like weight on the bar? Or is it heart rate, which is like a more... Bar velocity. Yeah, right. Exactly. And this continues for basically all variables. The percent VO2 peak ranged from 55% to 72%, depending on which other variable was being measured. The power output ranged from 125 to 224 watts for all different... These all different zone 2 criteria within the same group. And again, these are all trained cyclists. So, it's not like you're taking untrained individuals. So, my interpretation of this is that there's huge variance in how people sort of respond to a certain zone 2 prescription. And so, how you define zone 2 influences how zone 2 training is executed, which likely impacts the training adaptations that people are going to get. And I don't know which one is better for the desired training adaptations. Is it better to use a heart rate? Is it better to use a blood lactate? Is it better to use a wattage target? I don't know. But when you look at like endurance athletes, broadly speaking, especially highly competitive ones, their training intensity distribution is about 80-20. Now, granted, there's some variance here depending on the sport, the person, and whatever, and the phase of the season. But generally speaking, 80% of their work, the bulk of their work is done in that zone 1, zone 2 zone, those zones, lower intensity type stuff, whereas 20% is higher intensity. There is some evidence that doing more zone 2 work compared to zone 1 work might be better for performance. So, you theoretically could make a hedge that I'd really want to find out what zone 2 is. So, I could do most of my low intensity conditioning there rather than zone 1. But I don't know how to prescribe it. Yeah. It's like by one variable, you could be quote unquote in zone 2. And then if you measured another variable, it might be wildly outside of it. And so, which one do you prioritize or pick? You could make an argument of just like pick one and stick with it. You could make an argument of like measure all of them and see how well they correlate. And then to the extent that you have tight correlations, then maybe you can run with some combination of these things. I don't know what the pros or cons of this would be outside of just like if you have some consistent tool that you are using and you are progressing as evidenced by that metric over time. Meaning that like, it's like in strength training, if we prescribe a lift at a 7 RPE and the weight you can lift at a 7 RPE goes up, then you have demonstrated some progress. Whereas if you switch, you know, your outcome measures, then you don't know as much whether you have progressed. So, some measure of consistency with which tool you are using might be the more important variable than which one you pick, given that they may or may not correlate in an individual person. Yeah. I mean, I actually think that the analogy to resistance training is perfect here. So, like, if you're trying to prescribe zone two conditioning, it's the same as trying to prescribe a particular exertion during resistance training. So, a couple different ways to do it. You could use tests, some sort of test to come up with like a quote functional threshold for conditioning. It'd be like equivalent to like a one rep max test, right? With lifting. So, this functional threshold, one of the tests that we prefer is this field test. Get on a bike, treadmill, whatever, you go 20 minutes hard. And the idea is to what is the maximum pace you can sustain for 20 minutes? What's your average heart rate throughout that kind of tells you your functional threshold. That's basically telling you like, this is your anaerobic threshold. And so, you can come up with a heart rate percentages based on that functional threshold test. And you can make your own chart for zone one, zone two, zone three, zone four, zone five. That's kind of how we do it with our general strength conditioning templates or other conditioning focused templates. So, that's a test. Compared to barbell training, you test somebody's one rep max and you'd be like, look, we're going to program you to do 70% or five sets of four, for example. We know that none of those sets are going to be maximal, right? Just because you're so far away from failure, but they're all heavy enough to drive strength improvement. And we feel pretty good that you're unlikely to be too light, just as we're pretty confident that you're unlikely to be too heavy and causing too much fatigue. That's one way to do it. You could also guess, and use a bunch of some number of different variables without doing any sort of testing. This is like, again, if you never tested somebody's one rep max and strength training, so how would you go about prescribing the load that they should lift? And similar to our use of RPE, we care more about precision than accuracy here, meaning that you're using the same method to sort of gauge your effort and exertion compared to it being bang on, spot on, because there's a relatively wide range of sort of effective intensities, even within zone two. You don't need to be at the very top of zone two to make it maximally effective, and you don't need to be at the very bottom of zone two to make it, you know, minimally fatiguing. Somewhere in the middle is fine. Needs to be similarly hard is the target. Yeah, exactly. And so there are a bunch of different ways that you can do this. So for example, you could use RPE somewhere in that RPE four to six range. Now someone's like, well, I don't know what that means. And I'm like, okay, well, maybe that's not the best, best thing for you to use in isolation. But if I say RPE four to six, which is requires your attention to like maintain that pace, but it's kind of boring. It's not very hard. And oh, by the way, you should probably be somewhere in like 65 to 80% of your maximum heart rate. And oh, by the way, if you have any sort of like maximum power test that you've recently done, it should be about 40 to 50% of your peak power. Oh, and we can add like a ventilatory threshold, a breathing rate sort of test. So these are talk test, for example. So basically, with a talk test, you have an individual who is exercising to recite a paragraph that takes about 10 to 15 seconds to complete. In the US, we commonly use the Pledge of Allegiance. You just try to say that while you're exercising. And then as soon as the passage is completed, you basically ask yourself, can I still speak comfortably? If the answer is yes, the result is positive. You're probably not intense enough to be right near that aerobic threshold. But if the answer is no, or if you're unsure, then it's like, okay, I'm definitively within zone two, I'm close to that, that ventilatory threshold number one, which is good enough to be close to to the top of zone two. And so you could use all of these, you could use one of them, you could use, you know, a couple of them, whatever you want. But it's more important, again, that you use the same method each time, rather than being super, super accurate, because you don't need to pinpoint, you know, the top of zone two, or the bottom of zone two, just be in the middle. Yep. Yep. Similar concept to strength training, there's a there's a range, you know, your body does not, you know, robustly respond to a load that is a kilo heavier or a kilo lighter, or even two kilos, or maybe even five kilos, or, you know, whatever the case is, just, there's a wide range and being somewhere in the range, given how much variability and uncertainty, and inaccuracy or imprecision there is around a lot of these measures, then do the best you can. And again, if it's staying similarly hard, and your performance within that range of similarly hard is improving over time, then you are improving. Yeah, yeah, one of the methods I like the best is the counting talk test. So you have somebody take a maximal breath in. And then as they're, after that, they count aloud using their typical talking pace, one 1000 to 1000 3000, etc, until they have to take another breath, that final number that they say before the first breath is recorded, then you do the same test while they're doing exercise. And if you get to a value that's about half of what you're you're at rest, the counting talk test is great, you're smack dab in the middle of zone two, you're good to go. If it's more than that, I have concerns that you're in zone three, you've passed the aerobic threshold. And if it's about the same as what it was at rest, I have concerns that you're either at the beginning of zone one, or maybe not even exercising at all. So that's one easier way to do it. But again, some people are going to say this and like, just give me a heart rate zone. And I'm like, well, it's going to be wide, too wide to probably use. Yeah, right. Because if you just try to get to 80% of your max heart rate, I'm like, I don't know if you're zone three, maybe, you know, trickling into some some light zone four stuff, or you could be definitively within zone two, it just depends. Yeah, I don't know. It just when people talk about zone two training, I always want to ask them, like, what do you mean? Yeah. And like, how are you defining it? Because again, there's not really an agreed upon set of criteria that is generalizable to everyone, or even most people outside of using ranges that are too wide to be useful. It's like saying, you should lift weights. And it should be done, but you know, somewhere over 65% of your one rep max, and you're like, that range is too wide to actually execute, right? You're like, could I just stay at 65% of perpetuity? Should I ever go heavy? Is 75% better than 65%? What about 80%? I don't know, man. Yeah. And a lot of that is like, to what end? Like, what is the intended outcome of this training, right? So if it's for general health purposes, then you could. But the other implication there is how much of it do you need to do to get the most benefit out of it, right? So there's actually probably not anything wrong with doing an overwhelming majority, if not all of your, you know, aerobic conditioning at a very low intensity, let's call it zone one. But like, if you want to actually enjoy as much health benefit as you can out of that, you need to be doing probably many, many, many hours of that per week, like an enormous volume of very low intensity stuff. If you, if you do not have the time to do that, and you want to be getting, you know, all the health benefits you can out of your conditioning, then you might actually need to bump it up a little bit into a different intensity range for the amount of time that you're willing to put into it. I think that you and I would agree, like, hey, if we were back in our, you know, medical training period, and we were severely restricted on time, but we wanted to keep some conditioning in, as much as they're not my favorite thing to be doing, I'd be doing some pretty high intensity type conditioning work with the minimal time that I had available to me. Now my life is in a somewhat different position. And the amount of time that I have available to train is also different. And so I do a fair amount more lower intensity stuff, because the trade offs are more favorable, I'm willing to spend the time I actually don't mind it. And it reduces the fatigue cost. So I can spend that fatigue on other things like, you know, training or you're doing other sports and activities and things like that. So I think that's like the practical implication of like, why anyone should care about this is if you think you are following a particular protocol, if you think you're in a particular zone, you might not be getting as much as you think out of your training, if you were say you're far lower than that. And in order to get that benefit, you might need to double how much training volume you're doing. And you might be kind of fooling yourself on that. Yeah, yeah. I mean, just to do one more analogy to resistance training, I think for most folks who are not currently resistance training, my biggest concern is that they start doing resistance training. And then after that, I'm like, I want to make sure it's hard enough. Right. And then within that kind of consideration, I also want to make sure I'm more concerned that it would be too hard rather than than than, you know, not hard enough. And so there's just such a wide range that I don't know that you have to get super, super accurate on this stuff until performance becomes your ultimate goal. But within that, it's going to be so individualized, like you, for example, prefer lower intensity strength training than I do. I just respond a little bit better to higher intensity stuff. There's going to be that in conditioning, too. And I think people who take their conditioning outcomes for performance very, very seriously, likely do need advanced instrumentation, whether it's you're doing a lactate test while you're, you know, while you're in the field, whether you got a power, you know, output monitor, you're using heart rate stuff. I think that would be more useful. But for health, I'm more concerned that people doing this again, it's not too hard, not to not too easy. And we've given you guys some tools to kind of implement that. Yeah, I like it. Good tips. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the 2025 June research review. Again, we talked about do heavy walkouts work in the squat? Not really. We've talked about does exercise reduce cancer recurrence for colorectal cancer by 40 percent. It's probably an embellishment. And what defines zone two cardio? We're still shoulder shrug emoji. There's there's too many different things and it varies. Before you guys go anywhere, please give us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye

=== FILE: Do Heavy Walkouts Improve Squatting Performance？ [STod9WCRnp0].txt ===

 All right, all right, let's get into the first study. This study is titled Supra-maximal walkouts, protect against performance decrements experienced in repeated sets of back squats. So just before we get into this, Austin, are you a, do you ever program heavy walkouts for people? No, I think that I can see the utility of it in certain contexts, I suppose maybe like, you know, in situations where someone has a, you know, kind of some anxiety around it, some performance stress if they're committed to walking out of weight, meaning they're not competing in a meet where they're going to use a monolift and just stand it up out of the monolift. Various, various potential use cases, I don't find myself programming them routinely. I don't personally use them. As an aside, I find it very, I don't know, interesting, amusing that this is actually being studied. It's like you can automatically deduce that like the researchers in this are like big time powerlifting nerds. Love it. Because no one else is going to be bothering to research this. Yeah, yeah, this is by Greased and the research group out of Florida State. University. This was published in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research June of this year. So fresh off the presses. So just if you don't know what a walkout is, like when we were talking about that, we're literally talking about walking out a squat. So you pick the bar up off the pins, the J hooks, whatever, and you walk it out. And supra maximal means heavier than your max. This probably, I mean, granted, I'm 40 now, but that doesn't mean I've been around since the beginning of time and the beginning of powerlifting. So I can't say if it used to be more popular. It certainly seemed that way, but I don't know if that was just in the circles that we were running in or whatever. But, yeah, the idea was, well, look, if you want to squat heavier weights, maybe you would do a heavy walkout to like feel the weight or whatever. And so, yeah, to your point, these guys probably are interested in powerlifting but also interested that it's been studied. So let's give a little background here before we talk about the specifics of the study. So first off, strength is muscular force production that's measured in a specific context. And so in relation to that, there is this concept of like velocity loss during a set. So this is a marker of like fatigue occurring during the set. So if you have a really fatiguing set, then you're going to get more velocity loss than a less fatiguing set. So a higher RPE set, for example, you'll see more velocity loss, generally speaking, than a lower RPE sort of set. Now, recent research into strength training has shown that training closer to failure, as evidenced by greater decreases in barbell velocity as the set progresses, does not produce greater strength gains than a more modest or smaller loss in bar velocity. And, in fact, the opposite has been kind of shown. So for our strength-focused training programs, the way that we coach or whatever, we tend to favor less velocity loss and, therefore, lower RPE training, so that low fatigue type of setup. And I just want to interject because for those who may be either unfamiliar with some of these terms or like a little bit less familiar with these concepts, to put it into kind of more practically understandable terms, when we talk about velocity loss, that's describing the bar, like how quickly you can stand up the weight from a squat getting slower and slower and slower as a set goes on, as you get more and more and more tired. And so I think traditionally, the view of like what constitutes effective strength training, quote, heavy air quotes around that, is seeing somebody who is grinding out an extremely difficult, hard, hard, hard set where the last rep just inches up millimeter by millimeter. What we are saying is that more recent evidence in this, as well as a fair amount of experience, has reflected that as far as strength outcomes go, your ability to maximally increase your one rep max kind of strength performance, the bulk of your training actually does not need to be quite that close to failure, that hard, that much of a bar slowdown, nor arguably should it be. There certainly can be some exposure to that level of effort so that you can, maybe if you need to grind out that absolute one rep max, be able to do that or to know how to not immediately bail when it gets that hard. But as far as how to best train towards that end, it seems that when we compare people who train while they maintain a bit faster bar speeds at the end of their set, meaning their sets terminate a bit sooner versus going a bit further closer to failure where the bar slows down more, they grind harder. The strength outcomes tend to be a bit better when people keep the bar speed up higher. And so when you say like a little bit lower RPE training or low fatigue template, that doesn't mean you're lifting lighter weights. That doesn't mean you're just doing easy training. It is that each individual set on its own is less fatiguing. You are still exposing yourself to at least moderate to heavy loads, but you're not taking it all the way to failure. Yeah. Yeah. Imagine like a five rep maximum, which is like 85, 86% of a one rep max somewhere in there. Imagine just doing it for a set of three. You'd have less velocity loss. And we would predict that to work better than doing a single set of five to failure and how it costs you less from fatigue. And it'd be even better if maybe you did two sets of three or three sets of three, you know, because you could do that since you didn't go, you didn't, you know, blow your smoke yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Okay. So one strategy for potentially reducing velocity loss during a set is post activation performance enhancement. Pape is post activation potential, that sort of thing. So if you didn't want to lower RPE, for example, and you're like, but how can I maintain bar velocities or another way, please help me. This is a strategy that's had been investigated in resistance training. So it's mostly a function of neural mechanisms. So some stuff with the brain nerves and other short term changes to the level of the muscle itself. So, for example, you could do a vertical jump prior to doing a heavy squat or a bench press throw before a heavy bench press, or you could do the opposite. You could do squats before a vertical jump. And there's some evidence that this may work to sort of preserve or even increase the velocity of whatever the second thing is. Now, for example, previous data shows that doing heavy eccentric only sets, a downward phase for bench presses may benefit upper body power production. So this particular study had guys who benched about 315 pounds. They did two reps of eccentric only. Again, that's a downward phase with 110 to 130 percent of their one rep max bench press loads. Just as an aside, I want zero part of that. Yeah, that does not sound pleasant to me. So you've benched, you know, in the 450, something like that is your best. I think mine and me is 440, whatever. So I'm just imagining unracking 500 pounds and then lowering it to my chest without it completely exploding. Now, I understand Jennifer Thompson has done this. I've seen a video of her lowering 500 pounds to pins, and she benches like, I think, 330 or something around there is her max. So hats off to her. Yeah, I just want to point out one thing. You said what was the 130 percent of their max? Do you know what that is for? No, I didn't want to do it because that just scares me. Yeah, it's for me, it would be about 585. No chance. Yeah, no chance. I couldn't even unrack that. That's what I'm saying. Like, I would help. You and I would be in my garage just unracking this thing, and then you would just explode. You would turn to dust. You'd be a dust on the bench press, at least your upper body. It would just be a guillotine. Yeah, that'd be the end of us. And then I'd have to vacuum you up with a dry vac. He's dead. Anyway, so they did this 110 to 130 percent of their one rep max bench press loads. They just did two reps bringing the bar down only. Now, so I imagine what happened is they brought the bar down to pins. Somebody, they helped them get back up and they did a second rep. Five minutes later after this, they performed a bench press throw with 30 percent of their one rep max to measure power. I assume this was on a Smith machine, actually, now that I think about it. And there was a 10 percent increase in power and 6 percent increase in velocity compared to not doing these heavy overloads. So this thought is like, well, shoot, maybe if we do this sort of, you know, heavy overload prior to some sort of test, in this case, the squat, maybe it improves velocity, for example. So this study wanted to look at the effect of walking out a weight higher than the individual's one rep max, their squat one rep max, and their subsequent squat performance. They took 13 healthy dudes who had a one rep max back squat of about two times body weight. The average squat in this study was 425 pounds, so reasonably well trained. They visited the lab four different times. The first was for typical research stuff, so consent, screening, getting height and weight data, et cetera. The second, they actually tested their one rep max squat. And the third and fourth were experiments, which included either a heavy walkout that was heavier than their one rep max or the placebo walkout, which was like 30 percent. Of the one rep max. They had trash bags over the weights. Nice. So theoretically, you wouldn't know. Yeah. And I think that is an interesting study in and of itself. Like when you feel like you start to unrack the weight or whatever, like what goes on in your supplementary motor area of your brain to like correct for force production? Or do you just think, well, it could be heavy, so I'm going to go 100 percent? What do you think would happen there? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think that it's super fascinating. I think both of us, when training towards one rep max strength, we actually pay a lot of attention to the immediate feel of the weight when we unrack it. And I vividly can recognize periods where I unrack it. I'm like, oh, this weight feels like 150 pounds lighter than I expected it to feel. So this is about to fly today. And then other times where it feels far heavier than you expected to. And so, you know, depending on the context impacts your decision making in that front. But I do remember, you know, years ago, I think it was Bryce Lewis was doing some training. And I remember, I don't know if it had to do with some, maybe some like performance anxiety on the platform or what led to it. But he was training where he would have other people load up his bar and put black trash bags over the ends of the weights. And he just went and lifted what his coach put on the bar for him without him having any knowledge of it so that he wouldn't have any kind of like, I guess, negative mindset going into the set, which was interesting to watch at the time. Yeah. I mean, I'm just thinking of my and granted, I'm primed a little bit by looking at the weights. I can like tell what it is. Yeah. But what if, for example, you had calibrated kilo plates, but they were the wrong colors? And so like all the reds were blues instead of being 25. I don't know. Like it would do something. It would prime you in a different way. That'd be a cool experiment. Yeah. Maybe, maybe these researchers, since they're powerlifting nerds like us, maybe do that next. So anyway, yeah, they had a heavy, you know, walkout. One was 110%. And one of the times they visited the lab and the other one was the placebo walkout was like 30% of the one rep max. So they just walked it out. They held it for 10 seconds and then they re-racked it. Then they rested for five minutes and they performed three sets of one repetition at 92 and a half percent of the one rep max. And then data was collected on bar velocity, RPE, and muscle electrical activity via EMG. So results. For both the light and heavy walkouts, power and velocity tended to decrease in the sets performed after the walkouts. No surprise there. You're just lifting heavy weights over and over again. Some fatigue is going to occur. However, RPE also tended to increase in both groups across the sets. However, the decrease in average power and bar velocity were slightly less in the group who did the heavy walkout. And the increase in RPE was also slightly less. Now, this mostly pertained to the very first set after the heavy walkout. And these changes, while statistically significant, were relatively small. I'm not going to bother reading you the numbers because they would be meaningless. You'd be like, dude, that's just numbers. I don't know what to think of that. I'm telling you, though, like they're not impressive. So then there were also no differences in electrical activity in the muscles as measured by EMG. So to summarize, this study looked at doing a heavy walkout prior to some heavy single repetition squat sets. And it may preserve bar speed and reduce RPE slightly in the very next set. However, the effect does not appear to be very big. And we're talking about like less than a half point in RPE difference. And there were no differences in muscle electrical activity between the heavy and light walkout groups. And the preservation of velocity was also what I would consider to be like an artifact potentially. It's just not big enough for you to be like, wow. And to me, this is not particularly strong evidence of a benefit from heavy walkouts on or short-term performance for one. Because statistical significance does not equal clinically significant. In this case, the clinic is the gym. And so the numbers are just too small for me to believe that they're either real or meaningful, certainly. It's also difficult to imagine that these small differences, again, limited to the first back offset, would actually lead to better results long-term. Meaning like someone gains more strength or gains more muscle mass or whatever. It just seems like kind of an interesting finding in a small group that's ultimately like a shoulder shrug. Like, I don't even know that this is real. So what do you make of this? Yeah. Deeply unimpressed as well. I wonder like if you compared it with like, have a different group that doesn't do the walkouts beforehand. But instead, you just like hype them up before they're set. Yeah. Like that would probably have or like, you know, play them their favorite song. Give them a trap slap. You know, just and I think that's part of the takeaway is that a lot of this is kind of subjective, individual preference-based types of things. That work for certain people from a performance standpoint in terms of like pre-exercise rituals and various other kinds of things that I, you know, if somebody tells me, gosh, when I do a heavy walkout before my set, I feel like Superman going into it. I'm like, cool. Like, who am I to argue with it? I'm not going to go out of my way to use this ahead of time for people unless I think my persistent use case for this is like somebody who sucks at walking out a heavy weight. Like, then it's just practicing that skill rather than aiming to use it to improve performance on a subsequent squat set. I'd rather just like, I don't know, yell at them a little bit more during their set to like try harder or like tell them to, you know, try to throw the bar off their back when they stand up out of the bottom. And I bet that that would actually have a bigger impact on bar speed than just like holding a heavier weight beforehand. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. It's personal preference for barbell sport athletes. Like if you're a power lifter, for example, this is just, and you prefer doing this. I think it's fine. I'd be more interested to know, like, even if you didn't hype people up, even if you didn't trap slap, even if you didn't play their preferred song, what about just resting more? Sure. You know, like I assume there's some level of fatigue from the heavy walkout. Yeah. And even some for maybe the placebo walkouts. What about just like hanging out? Yeah. Or like visualizing you moving a weight quickly during your rest period. You know, a lot of like, I'm a bigger fan of that, arguably, than some of these other things. Yeah. Yeah. I prefer for power lifters, if they're going to do a walkout, it's more practice. They're learning how to pick the weight up, walk it out or whatever, and stabilize the weight. You know, if that's something that they struggle with, like if they, you prefer to somebody to take like three step, two to three steps out of the rack. But if they take like a dozen, you're like, okay, we should, we should practice this maybe. For Olympic weightlifting, I like the front squat, front squat rack holds. But that's more of an isometric like strengthening exercise for them to be able to hold a heavy weight in the rack position. I think there's probably a better training effect there. For overload work, though, I think actual heavy eccentric work is beneficial. And I program that regularly. Now, most people don't have access to like weight releasers, like the stuff that actually comes off the bar when you hit the ground. I've had those before. They're cool, but gosh, what a pain in the ass. Very cumbersome. Totally. Yeah. Also, like maybe I'll try to find this and I'll link it in the show notes. Mike T has this thing. He's in his garage, of course, and he's, he walks out. I think the bar weight was like, it was 770 something or close to 800 or whatever, like on the bar. And then weight releasers, he had like 150 or 135 on each side. And if you've never seen these things, they like hang off the bar and they do oscillate, right? Like a set of chains, but they're not chains. It's just, it's a long metal pole with weights on the bottom of it. And so this thing is swinging. Yeah. And, but to his credit, he goes down to the bottom and the weight releasers pop off and then he stands back up with it. Look, you're, you're stronger eccentrically than you are concentrically by about 20%. So it makes sense. There's some good, decent training effect. There's just a pain in the butt to, to use. Chains can work, although it's slightly different because the chains obviously stay on the bar. So I don't know if that's really eccentric overload work. Some partial range of motion work for upper body stuff like floor press, board press can work. Again, it's not the same type of eccentric overload work, but can be useful. I just don't think that heavy walkouts outside of like skill development are super, super useful. Yeah. For powerlifting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you.

=== FILE: Does A Slow Metabolism Cause Weight Gain？ [FqE_09DQYuQ].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter, d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter does feel harder for some, their experience at trying to manage their weight, whatever their goals are. For some individuals, it does feel like a much more monumental, in some cases, even insurmountable task. And I think metabolism tends to be the scapegoat for, quote, all things that are beyond an individual's control. And I think this is really referring to an individual's genetics, their specific environment, and ultimately the response to the combination of those two things, a person's genetics and their environment. And so people are like, why am I having such a challenging time, you know, leaning out or achieving this particular physique or whatever, compared to these other folks? It just must be my metabolism. It's slower. Does that seem reasonable to you as far as like why this controversy is? I see these conversations all the time, whether just age-related or often like in the perimenopausal, postmenopausal world, things like that, just quite common kind of topics of conversation. Yeah. Okay. So let's see if we can come up with a consensus here. So metabolism, as measured by your resting metabolic rate and its combination with your thermic effect of food, so that's diet-induced energy expenditure, how much energy it takes to break down, store, metabolize food, et cetera, and your activity-related energy expenditure. So all of that stays remarkably consistent as an adult until the middle of your seventh decade, so about 65 or so. For most folks, it's a little bit longer. It stays pretty consistent for active. There are really like four distinct stages of, quote, metabolism where it's pretty much the same. So early childhood, adolescence, that's your second phase, adulthood, and then after 65 or a little bit older, it seems to decline. But the most of your adult life, metabolism, metabolic rate is effectively the same. And individuals with excess body fat, so individuals with obesity, they have the same metabolic rate per kilo of body weight. Sometimes it's even higher. Experimental evidence can show that as well, like up to a couple hundred calories per day. And there's no real difference in sort of like as far as weight gain goes and those who could have a high basal metabolic rate versus a lower basal metabolic rate. So there's no real experimental evidence that shows that, look, people with excess adiposity, excess body fat have a slower metabolism than their lean counterparts. So I think what we're seeing here is just a sort of unique, I don't know, it's kind of like a, it's kind of like an experiment that's taking place in real time. Like we've changed our environment such that the genetics that are relatively stable are producing a pretty predictable response. Our genetics are not set up for the modern food environment, the modern activity environment where we are less active and where we have access to all of these foods that are very, very tasty, very desirable, easy to access, cheap, high in calories, but not very filling. Well, medicine podcast. And our genetics are such that like, Ooh, what is this? So individuals were exposed to those, you know, far more than individuals who aren't based on where they live, based on their socioeconomic status or whatever. Well, the, the outcome is predictable. They're going to gain body weight up until a certain point and they're going to kind of plateau off. This is probably best modeled by what's called a dual set point theory by Dr. Speakman. Now this is still kind of speculative, but I do like this model for conceptually understanding what happens with weight regulation in adults, um, in developed societies. That is, there is a low body weight, body fat level that your body defends vigorously against once you start to approach it, because that would increase your risk of dying from disease or otherwise, you know, not having enough quote fitness. And I don't mean that in like a CrossFit type setting or like exercise related setting. I mean, fitness in the biological with the biological meaning like, Oh, you can't reproduce because you're going to die. You're infertile, whatever. Uh, so vigorously defends against that. Should you approach that? And you have a upper level of body weight and body fat, uh, sort of set point that your body would theoretically defend against. Should you get up that high, but the problem, and that's like for a predatory risk, right? Or also reduce levels of fitness where now your fertility has been compromised, but that's so much higher than what society views as like attractive or desirable or whatever. And so we've seen this sort of gradual shift towards that upper end towards that upper set point, but it's just much higher than most people would prefer. Does that seem plausible to you? Seems very biologically plausible. I think both of us have historically found this proposed model or explanation pretty compelling. I think that just selection pressures and, and sort of almost like incentives in, in a certain way, biological incentives as another term to describe what we'll call selection pressures or lack of selection pressures, uh, can have a super potent effect, um, on like gene environment interactions here. Yeah. Yeah. And I think when people just blame their metabolism, maybe what they're really talking about, and this is something that is definitely true there, maybe they're not really saying or not really meaning maybe unintentionally that they're like basal metabolic rate is slower on average than another person of similar body mass, lean body mass, activity level, whatever, maybe they're not saying that, but what they're saying is like, look, when I try to change my, my diet or increase exercise, I don't get the same response that my friend does. And to that, I say, yeah, yeah, it'd be like that. And we can call that metabolic adaptation, maybe more technical term, adaptive thermogenesis. Uh, but yet people, uh, you know, changes in body weight produces changes in body mass. So you lose some lean body mass, uh, for example, which in turn changes, resting energy expenditure, that's somewhat predictable, but amongst individuals who are so quote unquote resistant to weight loss, a number of other changes are going to occur. They're going to have a greater than normal reduction in their basal metabolic rate. They're also going to see a, uh, greater than normal reduction in their activity related energy expenditure. And that's not just exercise. That's non-exercise energy expenditure. They're going to twitch less. They're going to shiver less. They're going to move less. And that's all subconscious, right? Their hunger is going to go up. Their feelings of fullness or satiety are going to go down. And for folks who are very, very resistant to weight loss, it's a tough road. I agree. And I understand that that experience is very, very challenging, you know, defeating and whatever, but that doesn't mean that you have a slow metabolism. All it means is that your genetic lot in life is much more poorly suited for the modern environment than some other folks. And yeah, if your intervention, if the proposal was, well, let's change the environment, we would say, yeah, let's do it. Yeah. And to the extent that's not feasible, uh, you're living in the best time in history to have tools to manage it, right? Totally. It may not be your preferred method if it involves the use of certain meds or surgery or something like that, but we've never before had the level of, you know, potential inter, you know, intervention control over this as we do, uh, today at this moment. And tomorrow we'll have even more because a lot of these things are being studied. You know, this, this conversation around metabolism, there's, there's two examples that I can think of that are really commonly cited. One is what you mentioned where somebody says, you know, I'm not getting the same results as this other person that I know, or I know somebody who can eat a ton of food and they never gain weight. And then I, you know, eat very little and I feel like I either do gain weight or I can't lose weight. There's a couple of variables there. One is just the intrinsic biological variation between these two people that may lead them to have different, you know, results from, from these things in the modern food environment. The other is something that we talked about earlier that, uh, it's very likely that they are overestimating the amount of calories that that person is consuming in a 24 hour period. For example, maybe they see them eat a large meal, but they don't see the meal that they skipped and they're severely underestimating the amount of calories that they consume. This is just what humans do. So there's some, uh, you know, estimation inaccuracies there. There are probably some unaccounted for variables. And then, yeah, there's the biological variation between people. We could, you and I could both sit here and complain that, Hey, we could try running, uh, Ed Cohn's deadlift program. And we didn't deadlift 900, you know, come on, man. Sorry. Like just try harder. It's not, we're not, you know, the same organism. Uh, we have, you know, different, uh, different things that are going for us and different things that are not in our, in our, in our favor here. So there is some biological variation between people, even if they are doing the same thing. You know, we put people on similar programs and we're going to see diverging results. You put people on a similar diet. You're going to see some diverging results for reasons that are both within and outside of their control. The other aspect of the metabolism piece, not just comparing between people, uh, between adults, for example, is, uh, well, it was different when I was younger and, you know, when I was a kid, I didn't have to think about this and I could eat whatever I wanted and things like that. And by and large, I think that a lot of that there's, there's certainly some, depending on how long ago you were a child, there are likely to have been some changes in the food environment and things like that around and alcohol use and all sorts of other things that can come into the picture across the lifespan. But activity level is a massive, you know, variable that changes, um, you know, over that period of time. I think about some of my friends, kids these days that I see that are like in the, you know, four or five year old timeframe. And they're just like constantly throwing their bodies around all over the place, doing, doing stuff, playing, you know, uh, uh, just like hyperactive, you know, moving around, uh, arguably. And that's something that, you know, obviously if we saw, uh, an adult behaving in that way, we would view it as concerning or culturally maladaptive or something like that. Instead, they're, you know, maybe potentially sitting in office chairs in a cubicle for a fair amount of the day and, and, uh, perhaps not otherwise meeting or exceeding physical activity guidelines and things like that. So that's another variable that changes across the lifespan within a person that might be perceived as a decrease in metabolism. And it's like, kind of, if you look at like maybe total, you know, activity that you're doing or something like that, but not your basal metabolic rates, not the, the, those types of functions that we can measure that appear to be quite consistent across the time, time span. And your dietary patterns have also shifted from childhood to adulthood. So there's a lot of like explanatory variables that can, uh, you know, get at these experiences that people have and then kind of jump to the conclusion of it's, it's my metabolism that's, that's changed. Yeah. Generally speaking from like adolescence, we'll call it or in childhood and adolescence to like adulthood, you're no longer growing. So sure. Metabolic rate per kilo has, has gone down a little bit because you're no longer growing. Uh, especially not at the rate that you were, you're likely to be less active. And then again, depending on how much time has passed, let's say if you're in your sixth decade now, so you're in your fifties compared to when you were a child, you know, in the, uh, uh, early eighties or seventies, oh, the food environment has changed drastically as far as also as like normal, like normal dietary practices. Uh, for example, more, much more meals are being consumed that are prepared outside of the home. Portion sizes are bigger, all sorts of stuff, but that doesn't mean that your metabolism is crashed. Yeah. If we, if we transplanted you in your state with your current metabolism into a different food environment, you'd be likely to do fine. If we had control over that food environment, if it was a better food environment, if we could set it up the way we wanted. Yeah. But, but we could also set it up in a way that's even worse and we could predict the results there too. Yeah. Food, food industry would love that. All right. Cool. Cool. We'll be right back.

=== FILE: Does Exercise Really Reduce Colon Cancer Mortality By 28%？  CHALLENGE Trial Review [vFZFckc8ugc].txt ===

 Ifr 2020 2020ibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibtibt into chemotherapy for colon cancer. Do you want to do like a layperson interpretation of what that study title actually means? Yeah, sure. So basically, when you have any form of cancer, there are various types of treatment modalities that people can get. And so there can be people might be familiar with chemotherapy, which is usually just drugs of some kind that are ideally targeted towards that particular biology of the cancer that the person has, whether it's a solid tumor in any particular organ, or it's what we'll call a liquid tumor or a hematologic or a blood-based cancer like leukemias. All these things are different diseases. So this is important when people talk about just like, quote unquote, a cure for cancer. Each cancer is an individual, you know, subset, and arguably each individual person's particular tumor that they have has its own unique biology. And the ideal scenario, which we're getting closer and closer to each year, is better defining the individual biology of each person's cancer and trying to target it with kind of the most modern, you know, agents that we have. So you can use chemotherapy in various different ways. You can use chemotherapy prior to surgery, for example, to try to shrink a tumor, to make it easier to take out. You can give people chemo, ideally to just actually cure, resolve the cancer itself. Or you can use it after some of these treatments as well. This can be paired with other things like surgery to try to cut out a tumor if it's amenable to that. Or you can use a targeted radiation therapy. And these can, again, be used in various combinations and in various sequences to try to achieve disease remission to the extent you can. And so part of this idea of combining therapies, you can have things that are called like adjuvants that can be kind of paired with another form of treatment, ideally to enhance the overall treatment effect. And so this is a trial that is using chemotherapy. And then you're trying to combine it with the application of exercise after that treatment to see how does this impact their outcomes after going through their chemotherapy and surgical treatment kind of upfront. Yeah, perfect. All right. So this study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine, June. Most of the study took place in Canada and Australia. And so some background information. So colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer globally, second most leading cause of death. The typical treatment, as Dr. Baraki mentioned, is surgery and chemo for localized cancer. It does change if the cancer has spread, for example. But it does recur quite often, 20 to 40 percent. You know, again, then there are unique differences in various types of colorectal cancers in certain populations. That all being said, exercise can reduce the risk of cancer. And that's just broadly speaking for all types of cancers. So it can reduce the risk of developing cancer, can reduce the disease burden for certain types of cancer, and it can reduce or improve the disease-free survival. So like not getting cancer again after it's been treated. So exercising in cancer, pretty good evidence that it can be beneficial. So for example, in a systematic review and meta-analysis of 16 studies involving several hundred thousand participants, strength training reduced the risk of any cancer diagnosis by 12 percent and death from cancer by 15 percent, independent of aerobic exercise activities. Now for colorectal cancer specifically, a meta-analysis of 21 studies found that those who exercised the most had about a 25 percent lower risk of developing colon cancer compared to the least active individuals. Overall, more exercise is generally better for risk reduction and improving quality of life. And the impact on the cancer-specific risk depends on the type of cancer, which is highly variable, but exercise is generally beneficial for reducing the risk of developing cancer, reducing the risk of its reoccurrence, and reducing death from cancer in addition to quality of life. I think what people say exercise prevents cancer. Both of our eyes get a little big, and then they roll to the back of our head because we're like, I mean, all types of cancer, that's probably not true, but like most types of cancer that, you know, develop later on in life that can potentially be impacted by lifestyle, sure, exercise is beneficial, but like some things that are mostly genetic, probably not a big effect on the cancer risk itself, but certainly could improve quality of life. That's kind of where I'm starting from, my baseline here. Yeah, this is just reflecting, again, how cancer is not one thing. And so when somebody says that, I'm like, gosh, there are a lot of cancers that I would not expect to have any significant, you know, response from a prevention standpoint to exercise. That's not to say that those patients shouldn't, because if you develop cancer, again, the better shape you are going into treatment, the better shape you maintain while you're being treated, the better shape you have after treatment, the better your overall outcomes are going to be in general. But to say that it's going to prevent certain types of, I mean, there are some where it's like, if you have this gene, you are overwhelmingly likely to get this cancer, no matter what you do from a lifestyle standpoint. And there are others that are super, super lifestyle responsive. And some of those are the ones, especially like a lot of the obesity associated cancers, or if someone has, you know, I can think of indirect ways, if somebody has like, you know, pretty significant fatty liver disease, it's like, that responds pretty nicely to like high intensity exercise and to, you know, pretty modest weight loss. And so that's a way by which you could say, well, yeah, it's preventing liver cancer, quote unquote. Well, it's one particular type of liver cancer that can develop in a subset of people who have fatty liver disease that persists long enough to generate that risk. But that's a very different claim and a lot less sexy than it just like prevents cancer, broadly speaking. Do you ever feel like we like are the crushers of joy? You know, like people will say something like, like exercise is good for cancer. And we're like, well, actually, there's, we did. I do think, you know, if we're trying to be good science communicators, then the information needs to be correct, it needs to be accessible, and we need to not embellish. Because I do think that as much as in misinformation kind of harms, so does like, misinformation that's embellishing the effect of something that's also harmful, I think. Yeah, I, this takes me back to a lot of, you know, things in the past five to 10 years that have happened in the public health space, and then conversations around it. And I agree that accuracy matters here. And yeah, to your point, it might seem trivial or annoying that we say things like this. But we've seen the kind of more advanced conclusions that get drawn when this stuff is not delivered in a very clear, accurate way. And the most obvious example in my mind that I tend to think about is during the pandemic time, when there was this idea, and this heralds from, you know, people who don't necessarily buy in entirely to concepts of germ theory, and they're more into the, like, quote, unquote, terrain theory that like, the problem is not that the pathogen or the virus or the bacteria exists, but rather that the person's body is sufficiently unhealthy, that it left them vulnerable to getting this disease. And so then it's just if you are healthy, then you won't get this disease. And then that gets into, you know, effectively a ton of patient blaming and for getting sick. And so it's not to say that, you know, population wide health couldn't improve for sure. But it led to a pretty, I don't know, aggressive lack of empathy for people who got ill, just because maybe it's like, oh, well, they died of COVID. Well, were they that they, you know, have a excess body fat? Did they have high blood pressure? It was that it was their fault for not exercising enough to be healthy enough to not die from COVID. And so we don't love those conclusions, because even if you are quite healthy, you know, you can also get quite ill and potentially die from things, regardless of that. So it is Yeah, we big fans of exercise here. But I think that that's part of why we aim to deliver kind of accurate, nuanced messaging around it, rather than making overly broad sweeping claims like, well, if you just exercise more than nothing bad will ever happen to you from a medical health standpoint or something like that. Yeah, ever. Yeah, you're protected, 100% effective. Yeah. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the study. So it's just under 900 subjects, the average age was 61 is about half women, half men. Now all the subjects had undergone surgical resection of stage three or high risk stage two colon cancer, plus they completed chemo within the last six months. And importantly, they were insufficiently active, they're not meeting the physical activity guidelines to be enrolled in the study, but they were also able to exercise. So those are a couple important criteria for inclusion in the study. Now they got randomized to either a health education group or a structured exercise group. Now in the health education group, these folks basically got handouts on health education. So like exercise and nutrition, and standard sort of disease specific follow up, they didn't see like a behaviorist, for example, they didn't see a physical activity consultant, which I assume is just like, it's almost like legalese for like a trainer. Yeah. So that was the health education group. The other group was the structured exercise group. Now they got three years of ongoing support from again, physical activity consultant, personal trainer, I don't know. Yeah. Plus they got the health education materials, plus they got an exercise guidebook for colon cancer survival survivors. This exercise was conditioning only so no resistance training. And I think about this like exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors that was just aerobic training. Like who wrote that? Yeah. And like, and like, what are the specific considerations? Like, show me? Yeah. Yeah. Like maybe walk, maybe ride a bike, maybe like do whatever you want. Yeah. My understanding also, I think I think the supplement that laid out some of the stuff relating to the exercise protocol here was very lengthy and detailed, which raised some concerns or some commentary around like the practical feasibility or external validity of this for generalizing to the rest of the population. If it was like pretty elaborate and detailed kind of protocol that was, that was in the supplement of this paper. Yeah. Yeah. As far as outcomes, they, for fitness related outcomes, they measured adherence. They also measured a sub maximal VO2 max test to see like, well, did they get fit or when they did the exercise, the group who was doing the exercise compared to the group who just got the regular health education. And they did a six minute walk test, which is exactly what it sounds like. You get a timer for six minutes. How far can you walk from health outcomes? They measured disease free survival. So how long the people went without getting this type of cancer again, overall survival, which is exactly what it sounds like. So death from any cause and adverse events among another handful of other outcomes that don't really change the kind of take on this paper. So we'll limit it to that as far as results go. So one thing to speak to your point earlier about like the feasibility of this, it took 15 years to recruit enough patients and colorectal cancer is like pretty common. And most individuals with colorectal cancer can exercise. And I would assume that since most people don't exercise, that most of these patients also were insufficiently active. So I don't know exactly why it took so long, but I suspect it was like, Hey, would you be interested in this study? Like you're going to, you may have to exercise. And people were like, uh, challenging. I mean, I obviously don't know the details of like why the recruitment was so difficult, but for it to take 15 years for a pretty common condition like this, that is concerning. Yeah. I agree. I see people with this and similar types of conditions all the time. And most of them, I'm like, yeah, you'd be a candidate for exercise in this type of a study. So it is an interesting question. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, now at baseline, um, both groups averaged about three hours per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity. The average six minute walk test result was about 530 meters in six minutes. And if, for those of you wondering the normal, uh, kind of six minute walk test for an adult is between 400 to 700 meters. So they were insufficiently physically active insofar as they weren't meeting the guidelines, but they were able to basically give a normal functional test. In this case, a six minute walk test. So that was a baseline. Now, after the intervention, the first thing I want to talk about is adherence. This, this was generally bad, right? Uh, only about half of the exercise group attended the recommended exercise sessions that weren't mandatory throughout the study. Uh, two thirds of the exercise group attended the mandatory behavioral support sessions. So I'm like, we're not doing so hot here. Uh, and ultimately it's like, okay, so they weren't really, and it progressively got worse throughout the study as well. So already we're like, man, this is challenging. And I thought one of the interesting things was they made this big to do about evidence-based behavior change sort of, you know, uh, theory and a bunch of references to it. And I'm like, okay, well, how evidence-based is this stuff if it didn't really work? Yeah. I mean, I think this to some extent is a, almost a natural history of any behavior change intervention. We see in terms of adherence to dietary interventions, adherence to exercise interventions, it is naturally gonna, there's going to be some attrition with time. Uh, so that's not terribly surprising. I think that the higher of an adherence you're able to achieve and maintain throughout a study, the more confident you are going to be that the differences in, in groups longitudinally are like related to differences in their actual exercise and the effects of that exercise compared with other things. Cause then you start to wonder what sorts of things led to that attrition led to those, uh, led to that drop-off, et cetera. Yeah. You would also expect that if there were differences in like cancer recurrence in, uh, mortality and quality of life or whatever, you would also expect there to be a big difference in like physical fitness. And then you'd be like, oh, well, it was probably due to the fitness then. But in this case that didn't really happen. So for example, the group who was randomized to the exercise group, the structured exercise group, they only did about an hour to an hour and a half more exercise per week than the health education group. So they were both of the, both groups were exercising and it just wasn't that much more in the exercise only group, which leads to the sort of predicted outcomes. The VO2 max wasn't really different, at least not clinically significant because it was less than the minimal clinically important difference in VO2 max change. So like, I can't tell you that their VO2 max has got better because it wasn't a big enough difference for me to be confident about that. The six minute walk test. Yeah. If you were in the exercise group, you walked about 13 to 30 meters longer, which is again, less than the minimal clinically important difference. So I'm like, this is just an artifact pops possibly of retesting these individuals. Uh, now what you've probably heard about in the headline, if you're tuned into this stuff was that after a follow-up of about eight years, there was a 28% reduced risk of disease recurrence. So cancer recurrence or death from cancer in the exercise group compared to the health education group. Whoa, 28%. That's effectively better than all chemotherapy agents we have for, for this particular condition. Um, it also reduced the, uh, number of recurrent colon cancer cases. So there were 65 individuals in the exercise group who got colon cancer again versus 81 patients in the health education group. Uh, exercise also reduced the risk of new primary cancers that weren't colon cancer. So for example, 23 patients in the exercise group, yeah, I had some other type of cancer that developed in the follow-up versus 42 patients in the health education group. And so if that was the headline, if you read something on CNBC or whatever, you'd be like, yep, exercise, it's a panacea, preventing cancer, preventing death from cancer, more exercise. And actually I'm not, I don't hate that because maybe that encourages more people to exercise, even though it's wrong. This is implausible that people had that much of a reduced risk of cancer recurrence in this timeframe. We'll, we'll get to that in a second. The only other thing I wanted to talk about with results before we kind of do this interpretation thing was that, uh, of adverse events. So 79 patients in the exercise group and 53 patients in the health education group reported musculoskeletal adverse events, presumably injuries. They didn't really talk about this much in the supplemental material. Uh, eight were considered to be related to the exercise intervention in the exercise group, which I guess if there was a silver lining of the study, you're like, look, man, about 900 people were randomized here and half of them, uh, did the extra structured exercise group and only eight into eight years of follow-up had some sort of like musculoskeletal complaint that was due to exercise. Like, cool, cool. I guess that's not terribly concerned about that feels like a favorable trade-off to whatever extent the benefits are true. Uh, it'd be a worthwhile trade-off. Yeah. So my interpretation, first off, is this 28% reduced risk of cancer recurrence or death from disease? Is that real? Seems implausible. I mean, it is probably net good. I mean, I think I'm, I feel confident that yeah, exercise generally is net good for cancer recurrence, cancer prevention, cancer, a quality of life with cancer, you know, all that sort of stuff, but it's not reducing the risk of disease in patients with cancer already by 28%. That seems highly unlikely. Uh, and there's been some other commentary on the study with respect to like how quickly were the results sort of recognized versus the time course of the, the, the disease in general. So I don't know, does this seem plausible to you? Are you, are you in agreement that this seems highly unlikely? This, I would say this changes little to nothing about my general advice relating to exercise as it pertains to patients with cancer. Like I'm still recommending it as enthusiastically as, as ever. Uh, but I'm not couching that in the claims of you're going to be way, you know, this, this specific, uh, percentage less likely to experience cancer, you know, recurrence, new cancer, die from cancer, et cetera. I'm, I think seeing some, some, uh, replication of something like this would increase our confidence if, if it was able to replicate. I think that, you know, you point out the discrepancy in like, well, one group exercise, the other didn't, uh, as you know, to the same extent, but the lack of, uh, kind of proportionate differences in their fitness outcomes makes it challenging to conclude that the, uh, whatever benefits are being reported are being mediated through this exercise based pathway. Right. And so it's like, you know, in, in other contexts, if we saw something that had a market, you know, cardiovascular, you know, impact and we're making claims around it impacted by way of like, you know, blood lipids or something, but then the group's blood lipids weren't significantly different. It's like, well, maybe that's not the mediating variable that we are, uh, actually, you know, uh, delivering this impact through if that impact is in fact real. So you have to have a sense of like, what is the proposed kind of causal pathway here? If they didn't get that much fitter for, uh, exercise to deliver this big of, of an impact. Cause in other areas, when we see, you know, in general, people who are like big responders to exercise training, uh, they tend to, you know, have robust responses in a lot of different areas. It's, it's less common for somebody to have a big robust response to exercise in just one area and then be like a non-responder in some other variable. Yeah. Uh, all right. Well, allow me to speculate. Tell me what you think about this. So if we agree that the fitness didn't actually improve between groups, there was not a big discrepancy on like the VO two max, for example, or the six minute walk test between groups, you know, like, well, they didn't really get much fitter. So maybe this potential benefit is not mediated through increased fitness, but it still could be, uh, uh, due to increased amounts of exercise, perhaps like energy expenditure. Right. Uh, so the, the mechanism that Ponsor talks about, for example, that if you're using a bunch of energy for exercise, you have less energy available to like fuel nefarious processes like cancer or inflammation, for example. So to me, that seems plausible, but like, ultimately we don't know because energy expenditure wasn't really measured here. We don't see a big difference in weight loss between the individuals. So to the extent that there was more energy expenditure, like, did they just counteract that by eating more because they didn't lose a bunch of weight and they're there. They have a medical process that's going on right now that actually does tend to cause weight loss. So like, and you, maybe you'd want to avoid that. I don't know. It seems plausible that that could be a potential mechanism, but overall, I just think that this amount of disease, risk reduction, mortality reduction, et cetera, seems to be a little high for what it probably, probably is. If they said, look, there's a 10% risk, you know, risk reduction in developing new cancer. If you exercise, even if there wasn't a big difference in like fitness or whatever, I'd be like, well, yeah, most people just didn't exercise. And so that's bringing the things down. But 10% I would buy. 28%, I'm like, it seems, if true, it's the most effective cancer treatment we've ever found for this particular condition, which seems again, unlikely. It's, I agree. There's plausibility to other pathways. I think that that's what we would need to determine before we can feel confident in this. And, and, you know, to what I said earlier, like, should this be replicated? Should this type of finding replicate? Then you would say, oh, this is increasingly, you know, plausible as an outcome, but then how are we getting there? What is the, what is the causal pathway? Because that would be valuable research for all sorts of reasons. Not just because exercise can do this, but also because maybe there are other ways that you can, you know, augment that causal pathway to get a similar survival benefit, you know, beyond just exercise alone. Maybe there are other ways to target the same thing. So identifying it is worthwhile if it's true. Yeah. So if I was doing a quality improvement project, how I would kind of like, it wouldn't exactly replicate this study, but it would give, I think, some maybe more practical sort of insights into what you do in the clinic, like with patients, particularly if you work in oncology. So one, I don't know that this recruitment process and then the behavior change delivery is feasible. Recruiting 15, taking 15 years, that's a non-starter. This intensive resource heavy sort of behavior change stuff that didn't really work anyway, it seems like, man, that probably cost a lot of money, a lot of time, et cetera, and didn't really pan out. So let's maybe train oncology professionals on how to not only recommend exercise, but also like deliver some sort of program to individuals. And let's compare outcomes in those that do participate and those who don't. And so then that would just give us a better insight, like, hey, is this feasible? It doesn't work, you know, in clinic. And I think that would be something I'd be more interested in seeing with more patients and maybe a more diverse set of cancers as well, just to get a better sense of, like, what is the potential impact? And maybe you could come up with, like, a potential benefit calculator, this, you know, interactive tool where it's like, look, if you start exercising, it is likely that you're going to see this benefit. And that might be motivation for people to start or stop. You know, like, you're like, look, man, you got this particular type of cancer. Exercise is going to be great for quality of life, but I can't tell you it's going to actually improve your survival. So people should know, should go into things with eyes wide open, I think. I would also have liked to see resistance training. It's like, if you wrote an exercise recommendation book for colorectal cancer survival, I don't know, you can just talk about aerobic training, like, you know, especially with the risk of sarcopenia from chemotherapy and this particular illness, like, how are you not talking about resistance training? Why wasn't that included? It seems, maybe it's just a tracking thing. Like, it's really difficult to track resistance training participation compared to, like, aerobic training. I don't know, but that was annoying to me. Yeah, it depends on the resources you have at your disposal to guide this exercise. If it is intensive in-person, you know, type training, that's much more straightforward. You know, I was participating, you know, with a colleague in a research study around exercise in cancer survivorship, basically, in patients who've survived their cancer. That study, there was a pilot study, and that was actually getting done just before pandemic. And then once that hit, it ended up shutting down subsequent research because we weren't able to have a much larger cohort of patients coming into the gyms at the time to do that. So to whatever unfortunate consequences that had, it did shut down that project at the time, but it was set up to involve both strength and some aerobic training as well. And that's something that, you know, in most, you know, areas of exercise oncology, of course, it needs to be pretty individualized to the patient, their symptoms, their limitations, their abilities, things like that, but ideally does include a component of both. And, you know, I think for the most frail, as in other contexts, the strength training is arguably a more important piece than the aerobic, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So for individuals who are either currently have a cancer diagnosis or are looking to reduce the risk of cancer, particularly colorectal cancer, I think both of us would still recommend exercise. Whether we're talking about prevention, whether we're talking about reducing disease risk, disease burden, improved survival, improved quality of life, big fans of exercise. I don't know what the exactly the percentage risk reduction there is out there. Again, that's going to be highly variable based on the individual and the type of cancer, et cetera. Again, we would recommend resistance training and aerobic training. And we also acknowledge that implementation is challenging just because behavior change is challenging. Yeah. Just like behavior change in any other area is challenging. It's no less challenging here. Arguably in many ways can be more challenging because a lot of times, you know, I've cited these data before that as soon as somebody gets a cancer diagnosis, about 75% of patients tend to decrease their level of physical activity like that day, basically, because suddenly you have this illness, you're sick, your self-concept changes around everything. And so it's only about 1% of people who somehow increase their level of physical activity after such a diagnosis. So we can do better there. Yeah. Plus add fiber to your diet, maybe consume fish, consider drinking coffee if you're not, like other things for colorectal cancer risk reduction.

=== FILE: Does Exercise Work For Everyone？ [2fIsCmTZtvU].txt ===

Alright, when discussing the Ateon in 2006 study, we saw people who did not respond to the trening program, are there any follow-up studies that show that initial non-responders do in fact respond when presented with the appropriate stimulus? Yes, there are. There are a number of studies and this idea of non-response to exercise is pretty interesting. It's been discussed in the research world quite a bit. For anybody who's interested in the topic, probably the best paper to go to is from 2018 from Pickering and Kylie. The title of it is, do non-responders to exercise exist and if so, what should we do about this? It's like non-responders. It's perfect. It was a great, I remember reading it when it first came out, we circulated at a round-eyed group and a lot of the discussion there and in that kind of field informed a lot of the discussion that you guys heard from us this weekend, as far as how we presented it to you. Definitely, influence our thoughts on the matter. As it turns out, this concept of non-response to exercise is not really defined all that well because the idea is there are a whole host of different adaptations that you can get out of exercise. And the idea of non-response just means that there's no change in any measurable, physiologic variable whatsoever, which is pretty unlikely. In fact, they make a case and we agree with it that it doesn't basically happen again in livinGHumans. As we made the case, during the seminar, we said, if you're alive, you have the capacity to adapt in some capacity. That means that there may be some variables that you adapt more to in a given program and some less and somebody else might respond in a different pattern across those kind of physiologic variables. They make the case that we should differentiate or not get away from using the term non-responder altogether and focus more on the term, did not respond, IE, to that particular program, which is exactly what we discussed this weekend, rather than labeling somebody OU or a non-responder like you're incapable of adapting. Rather, this program wasn't the right one for you and rather we need to find the right dose and formulation of stimulus for you. The other interesting aspect of this is they cite a whole bunch of the research in this realm and they found that rates of apparent non-response to exercise go down, meaning we see more and more people respond. The longer a study goes, so if you keep people trening for longer, eventually you see some response, additionally with higher doses of trening, which is exactly what we talked about this weekend, higher volumes or in some contexts, higher frequencies. So there are studies of people trening twice a week and you see a parent, low responders in that study and they bump them up to four times a week and suddenly you see trening responses, so increasing the dose of exercise. And then the other one is interesting and it pertains more to study methodology. It has to do with how many variables they actually measure. So if all you measure is like one RM strength, for example, then there may be more apparent non-responders compared to if you measured strength outcomes, hypertrophy outcomes, maybe body composition changes, maybe restinGHeart rate changes, maybe blood pressure, maybe blood lipids, the more things you measure, the more likely you are to actually end up detecting some adaptive response to exercise. So that part is like almost a study methodology issue where you can have higher rates of kind of apparent non-response. If you don't look at enough variables of adaptation that people can possibly respond to exercise with. So all of this stuff heavily informed the discussion that you guys heard during the lecture this weekend and the idea that if you're alive you can adapt in some capacity to something and we are job the coaches job is to find the right dose and formulation of exercise to help you generate their response that you're looking for. Yeah, do you imagine a situation where somebody told you that you were a non-responder to exercise? And then or like you had been trening for a while, let's say like a year, and no program that you had done had worked well for you. Everything you felt like, at least relative to your expectations and then maybe the people who you were working out with or trening with, they all did much better than you. So you were on the low and the accountant end of the scale, again, President Company excluded. Like what kind of psychological warfare would you have to endure to just persevere and then be like, it's going to be okay, I'm going to find this program, I'm going to identify this thing. But that happens all the time in sport where people don't do well at their self-selected sport or their second sport that they got exposed to or the third sport. But they keep trying different things and find the thing that they excel with. And I think that's how I view trening. It's like even if you've been on five, six, whatever, different programs before and not done that well. My role is a coach is to identify the thing where things that allow you to develop yourself to your maximum potential. That's what I'm here for, ideally. So the idea that fitting people into this rigid like it's got to be this program, why does this program work all the time, for example, or because it's working the past with other people I've coached or it's my preference. Those things are holding coaches back. Those things are holding their clients back. And so the idea would be more malleable, be more open to trying different things. You're trying to find, again, the right dose, the right formulation and anything that stands in your way of doing that is basically limitation. And that could may include being told or sort of condition to be like, well, you're just not going to respond well. You're a woman. You can't respond well to trening. Right? And it's like, what does that do at a society level? But that's for another YouTube video. So don't hate me in the comments. You'll hear similar discussions come up when people talk about weight loss and diets. There's discussion, you'll hear doctors, for example, or coaches say, this individual failed this diet, or they failed so many number of diets, or in medicine you'll hear people say, this patient, quote, failed physical therapy. I'd always correct that kind of language when we're talking about it because none of these things are like one monolithic intervention that we can do to people. And the person didn't fail the diet. That dietary approach did not work for them. And there is an approach that we can find, keep experimenting until we find something that worked similarly, the specific approach that was provided by the specific physical therapists that they saw may not have worked well for them. You don't know what the dose of exercise was, the formulation, maybe all they did was they went in and they got passive east in for the whole 12 weeks of their rehab. No shit, they didn't get better. Right? Because that doesn't work unless they were going to get better on their own anyway. So they didn't fail that physical therapy, that physical therapist, or more arguably failed the patient and we need to find a better way to get them to adapt. In that situation, in the same way, somebody trening for performance needs to find the right formulation to adapt. Same way, somebody trying to find the right diet for weight loss, needs to find the right dietary setup that's going to work for them to let them achieve their goals. Yeah. The 35-year-old male failed exercise. Right. Wait, what? Yeah. Okay.

=== FILE: Does Intra-workout Nutrition Matter？ [jkKeTGswomM].txt ===

You guys so much for joining us here at our first seminar back since COVID-19. We're here in Norfolk, Virginia, Ireland, asylum gym. Thank you so much for coming out. Nobody clap this time. Yeah, all right. Thanks. Thank you for watching on YouTube. Check this out. We're going to answer somEQuestions that were submitted during our seminar. Thank you for doing that. If you're a question, does not get answered here. Sorry. Go to our forum. We'll answer it there. And if that doesn't work, you should hop on one of my Instagram lives every Wednesday, 5 30 PM, 16 or time. I'll try to answer it there. If that doesn't work, DM Austin. No, he's very active and responsive to DM's. Particularly one that goes to his unread folder, he's just, yeah, he's on it. So that works. Okay. Let's go through our questions. Question one. Does intro work out nutrition make a difference, such as a gauge rate or other simple carbo hydrates during a workout? You want to start with this? Yeah, IMean, whatever. You got it. All right. IMean, I don't know if you have thoughts. I have some. Okay. Let's start with your thoughts. I think we're talking about two different things with those examples. For example, if you're talking about gatorade versus or like gatorade zero, for example, or simple carbo hydrates, because there's some difference with respect to electrolyte content. There. And I think for most people who are pursuing regular, just simple resistance trening, barbell trening, the type of exercise that that is, the demands of the exercise, typically are not going to make intro work out carbohydrate, supplementation, really necessary. I would say a similar thing with respect to the electrolyte concentration for people who are doing right, just routine, barbell base resistance trening like in a gym like this. I think there can be some considerations depending on the environment that the person is in. That would be one thing. And then other specific aspects of their trening. So environment, I'll give you myself as an example who routinely trens in an outdoor garage in South Texas, upwards of 110 degree temperatures, 90 minute to two hour session, losing substantial or not insignificant amounts of sweat. You could make a point for comparing, if I was just drinking lots and lots and lots of plain water during that session, let's say I ended up needing to drink, you know, two liters of plain water during that session versus something that had some electrolyte concentration in it, like, a gatorate although I would also argue that the electrolyte concentration to gatorate is probably too low for that purpose. I could make a case for using something that had some electrolytes, some added sodium, potassium, et cetera, during that session would be reasonable, knowing that I'm not like measuring my blood levels throughout this session. But losing tons of sweat and I would prefer to replace a similar type of fluid compared to plain water if I'm going to need to use a lot of it. The consequence to drinking lots and lots of plain water as you can actually dilute your blood sodium levels down, condition called hypoenetremia, a few other consequences that are best avoided. Of course, in the course of somebody who's trening doing that, it's not necessarily going to be life-threatening in most typical trening situations, but you hear new stories every year about, you know, college kids who go through hazing rituals and they drink tons of water until some kid dies or something like that. And so hypoenetremia is real and potentially risky. So that would be the point out, make on the electrolyte front for carbohydrate consumption, again, for regular routine like our type of parable trening, I think for most people, it's not necessary, assuming that you're eating reasonably the rest of the day. You haven't been, you know, fasted for 24 hours when you go to lift in which case, yeah, you should probably get something in you if you want to perform well during the session. But, you know, myself, I typically eat anywhere from 90 minutes to three hours somewhere in that range before I tren or consume something in that period of time. So I don't find for myself that consuming carbohydrates during the session is necessary. I think probably some folks who do extremely high volume bodybuilding trening or something, they may have different opinions on this, but that's kind of outside my scope or what I would want to manage myself. Yeah, yeah, I think for resistance trening, when considering adding an electrolyte drink, electrolyte replacement drink, one, the evidence on this is very underwhelming as far as suggesting any performance improvement, yeah, they're in the short term or like your next session being better. So I don't think I could recommend it based on current evidence. If you prefer the pallidability, that way it tastes, right, and you're going to be consuming a lot of fluid because you tren in somewhere that's very hot or humid or both or you sweat a lot. That seems totally reasonable to me, but I don't know that you need to do that. Retainly, main thing that's going to predict how well you do in those situations is what you aid in drink leading up to that and not just that day, but also the series of days and weeks before that. So, there currently the best fluid intake guidelines we have for athletes or the NATA North America trening Association guidelines. You can check those out if you're watching this online, but I'm in the description below about kind of outline with the complexities here. Basically, people sweat at different rates, different concentrations of electrolytes are in different environments, trened for different durations of time, so making it like again a specific hydration sort of recommendation is impossible. But with respective performance improvement, like if you drink a gatorade, well, you're bench-brusco, probably not. And then as far as carbohydrates or otherwise eating food during a workout. So, again, the data right now on resistance trening is not impressive at all, and so from a performance standpoint, would not necessarily recommend consuming food during a workout unless you personally prefer it, which is the same way I feel about timing of a pre-workout meal. I personally like eating about two hours before I workout, but I don't like setting a stopwatch after I finish my last flight to say, two hours, it's now time to live. That's just how it ends up working on my daily schedule. Other people like to eat a little closer to their workout or even a little further apart. I agree with Austin as long as you're not fasted. It's a good idea. And then that all kind of goes out the window when we start talking about endurance trening, particularly endurance trening that's lasting for over 90 minutes, two hours or longer than that. There's actually recommendations from the International Sports Society of Nutrition, talking about a actuALCARbohydrate recommendations per duration of time. I don't remember what they are off hand, but they actually give a carbohydrate recommendation. And I think that would be a good place to start. If you're an endurance-minded individual, but then I'd have to ask you like, why are you watching a marble medicine YouTube channel? It's a wrong channel for you. They still want to get jacked. Yeah, no, it's fine. So, in relation to your resistance trening, like you don't need any goo packs or like, you know, what else would you would you have? If you were, if you were running a marathon and you knew that you needed a snack in the middle, what would be your snack? I know mine is the ego first, because I know you like answering stuff on the spot. Well, if you're going to have to consume it while you're running, then I kind of tend to agree that those kind of gel pack things are fairly quick and convenient and easy to throw down instead of something you need to chew. Sure? Well, one, I'm not a very fast runner. I know this surprised you. And certainly from my own marathon, I'm not moving very quickly. Okay? So, you're going to sit down and have a meal because you may as well. Yeah, 100% not winning. I'm definitely not winning. The whole idea is to finish. And I think, you know, I don't want but I don't want to get sick later either. Okay. So, for me, it's going to be an Elvis Presley, which is a grilled peanut butter and jelly sandwich with a banana. And that's delicious. Yeah, that will work. Well, I'm not going to run with it, but I wasn't running in the first place. I was already walking. Okay. Yeah. And then, you know, probably a beer. It's got a bunch of electrolytes in it. Get a re-hydrating and also takes the edge off because I'm like, should I really keep going? Fair enough? Yep. Pro-t it.

=== FILE: Does Lifting Increase the Risk of Hernias？ [E13KaMOiV6M].txt ===

Music Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. We'll be bringing modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine under host doctor Jordan Faganbaum and we are back I got a new white coat got some motivation and so what I've done is created a bunch of content that's going to be coming out every Tuesday here on the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel So make sure you subscribe to our channel to get all the latest updates. Make sure you like the video and also we want to hear what you want to see next on this channel so you can leave that in the comments below. We really love hearing from you. What are we talking about today? Hurnie is. Let's not waste any time. Let's dig into this. Music Hurnia is when an organ or part of an organ or tissue abnormally protrudes through the wall of the cavity that's normally contained in such as when a loop of bowel gets pushed through a weed point in the abdominal wall fascia. This weed point creates a defect in the fascia which is basically a band or sheet of connected tissue. It's primarily collagen that's beneath the skin and attaches stabilizes and closes and separates muscles and other organs. Alright next up how are hernias named and the reason I wanted to talk about this is because people read this diagnosis and they're like well what the heck does that mean? So hernias are typically classified by location and or cause. For example, hernias that develop from a prior surgical incision are called incisional hernias. Those that don't result from a surgical incision are called primary or acquired hernias. They're also named by location. So ventral hernias which occur anteriorly on the ventral side of the body can be epigastric in the epigastric area or umbilical in the region of the umbilicus et cetera. Similarly, growinGHernias occur in the lower region of the abdomen, the groin where the thigh beats the hip and there are two major types femoral and ingwinnell. Ingwinnell occurs along the ingwinnell canal typically above. Whereas femoral hernias occur typically below the ingwinnell canal. There are many other types of hernias, but we're going to focus on ingwinnell hernias in this video. What other thing to say, sometimes the complications also make their way into the naming of the hernias or you might hear people describe these different terms such as reducible basically meaning you can push the hernia back in through the defect in the cavity that it normally was enclosed in or an incarcerated hernia which basically means the hernias trapped and it cannot be reduced which causes reduced blood flow. Also strengulation which basically leads to uh ischemia or lack of blood flow and necrosis or death of the contents of the hernia. Next up, who gets an ingwinnell hernia? So this is super common approximately 5 million Americans about 5% of the population have hernia. The majority of these hernias are located in the groin 96% of them are ingwinnell hernias which again is a subject of this video. This typically results in about 700,000 surgical repairs each year in the United States and it's the third most common reason for people to go see their doctor. Alright next up, getting to the meat of this, how do you know if you have hernia? So about 2-3rd, 66% of hernias are symptomatic meaning that you're going to have a dull vague pain usually in the lower groin or lower abdomen region. On the other hand, if you have moderate to severe pain that comes on with thEQuickness, it still could be due to hernia but probably not just your run in the middle hernia but perhaps it's incarcerated or strengulated and that warns emergent sort of evaluation from a physician. If it comes on quickly and it's not due to hernia it could also be to stick to the torsion, epididomytois, hydroceal, varicocel or a bunch of other different medical conditions that again need to be worked up by a doctor. So if 2-3rds are symptomatic, that means that 1-3rd are asymptomatic or without symptoms but typically there's a bulge that is present and that you can see and that the physician will be able to see. Typically that will be reducible again that you can actually push the contents of the hernia back through the wall where it was herniated from. This is diagnosed via physical examination and physical exams actually pretty good at picking this stuff up so it's 75% sensitive and 96% specific. Those are pretty good odds. Typically you have the patient standing an actively coughing or doing a valsalvo maneuver and should see a bulge above or below the inclinal ligament crease. So above's typically an inclinal hernia and below is typically a femoral hernia. Now the real reason why you all are here, what causes hernia. So there are a handful of things that we have a high degree of evidence for. So thing 1 inheritance. So basically give a first degree relative that's been diagnosed with an inclinal hernia that increases the likelihood that you will get an inclinal hernia. Gender also we've kind of discussed this before. This is way more common in men about eight times than there 20 times more likely to need a surgical repair. Age also appears to be a risk factor for developing an inclinal hernia and there appears to be this like buy modal distribution meaning there's one signal one peak very early age about five years old and then the next biggest peak occurs. When individuals are much older 60 to 74 years old now it does appear to increase over time as individuals get older and older. So individuals that are 24 to 39 tend to have a lower risk than individuals who are 40 to 59 and that again keeps increasing 60 to 74 and 75 plus other things that increase risk of inclinal hernias that we have high levels of evidence for. So connective tissue disorders typically that are inherited if you have prostate surgery history specifically prostatectomy so removal of the prostate either complete or partial. And there are handful of things that may increase risk although we don't really have great evidence for them so race may play a role. Inglinal hernias are significantly less common among black adults. For example chronic constipation may also increase inglinal herniar risk although the date is not great. Now a few of you are probably scratching your head thinkinGHey didn't you miss a few things like obesity don't individuals with obesity have higher risks of inclinal herniad development because we know that obesity or excess atopacity tends to be a risk factor for many different things. However in this case it actually appears that excess atopacity or individuals with obesity it might actually be protective in any case the data appears pretty clear that you know individuals who are overweight or who are obese tend to have lower incidences of inginal hernias another thing you'll notice that I didn't say increased risk of inginal hernia is tobacco use again if you asked doctors just in the street hey what increases risk of any disease most of the time they're going to say excess atopose tissue or obesity and then the next thing is going to be smoking or some some of that fortunately right now the data actually suggests that tobacco use is not a risk factor for developing inginal hernias factor some evidence showing it may reduce the risk not advising anybody to go start using tobacco because I don't think that data is very clear but the data is what it is right now and it doesn't appear that individuals who use tobacco have any higher risk of developinGHerniad now let's get to the good stuff the real reason that you guys are here at the barbell minutes and YouTube channels because you want to know does lifting actually increase the risk of inginal hernia development you know that you're going to get a hernia or maybe that was just my family but that is a question that we get all the time and so I dug into the research and there's a few different lines of converging evidence that also just probably not so thing one in guinalt hernia development is typically not due to aromasingle event in fact the study I've linked in the description below is titled it is highly unlikely that the development of a dominal wall hernia can be attributable to aromasingle strenuous event and effectively I'll read the exact quotation we conclude that we are unable to find any clinical evidence to support the hypothesis that a hernia might develop as the result of one single strenuous or traumatic event but we accept that this mechanism might still possibly occur we believe that at best it is extremely uncommon so what that means is that it's unlikely that aromasingle event like lifting a heavy single on a squat or deadlift or doing a heavy set or hard workout increases your risk so what we have is secondly, you might think that have some some more头 and moreakes rather than very difficult understanding. heavy lifting, particularly because you have to hold your breath because you're doing a Valsalva maneuver. So the Valsalva maneuvers when you fill up your lungs with air so the lungs expand the diaphragm goes down and impart some pressure in the abdominal cavity, because the diaphragm goes down. You're contracting your abs which limits how far the internal organs can go forward so you create increased inter-abdominal pressure. You also also get increased intra-therasic pressure because you're not letting that air escape, basically you've closed your glottis so you have increased intra-therasic pressure appear and increased intra-abdominal pressure down there. The idea is all this increase in pressure is going to keep cumulatively cause a defect in the fascia, a defect in the musculature, something like that that's going to cause you to have a hernia. So let's take a look at what the data says. It doesn't appear that cumulative intra-abdominal pressure increases the risk of developing an inclinal hernia. So to better answer this question we can look at this Danish study where they took 18,000 men followed them for about 18 years to see if there was any correlation between the hours spent per day standing, walking or lifting loads greater than 20 kilos. Now if there was an issue with this cumulative intra-abdominal stress what you'd expect to see is way greater incidents of enguinal hernias in those who spent the most time lifting loads greater than 20 kilos. Right? However there was no significant difference in enguinal hernia cases between those who lifted the most wheat per day and those who didn't lift at all. In fact the only significant relationship that was found was that those individuals who were standing for greater than six hours per day had a 45% higher risk of having to have surgery to repair an enguinal hernia than those who were standing for less than four hours per day. But there was no association found with a amount of load lifted or frequency of load lifted. So that all suggests that lifting probably doesn't increase the risk of developinGHernia. Rather the things that we referred to earlier, particularly the things that have high levels of evidence that they increase enguinal herniarisc. So inheritance, that familial predisposition, sex, so again males tend to have a much higher risk of developing enguinal hernia than women do age, that by-modeled distribution that we talked about, connect of tissue disorders, surgical histories, specifically prostatectomy. Those things probably contribute much, much more than any sort of sort of lifting based risk. All right, so now we get to talk about treatment. If you have an enguinal hernia, what do? If you're concerned that you have a hernia based on symptoms and or the presence of a bulge, you should be evaluated by a physician for diagnosis and management. Go get a check-out. Don't listen to me here on the internet to diagnose you. But if you get diagnosed, what can you expect? So from a treatment standpoint, most enguinal hernias are symptomatic and the definitive cure for asymptomatic growinGHernia is surgery. asymptomatic are minimally symptomatic, male and glinal hernia patients may choose to use this watchful weight in approach since the risk of hernia-related emergencies is relatively low. Now there are some risks, so like complications of the hernia, the symptoms could worsen and they may be in need for emergency surgery. But again, that's relatively low. So basically a shared decision between the physician and the patient based on preferences, risks, they'd individual case and all that sort of stuff should be undertaken. So if you do need surgery, a mesh repair is recommended as the first choice. And the surgery can be performed by a number of different ways, which depends on the surgeon, their expertise, the patient and hernia-related characteristics and complications, the anatomy, and also the resources. Right now, one standard repair technique for all growinGHernias does not exist. All right, you just had hernia repair surgery and you're trying to get back to lifting what do. So unfortunately, most surgeons' recommendations for physical activity restrictions are not evidence-based and they have the potential to greatly affect physical activity participation in their patients. The existing data on inguinal hernia repair indicates that most activities can be resumed within three to five days for those undergoing elective and glinal hernia repair. And in fact, when you look at the 2018 International Guidelines for Hernia Management, they actually say a period of rest or a lifting restriction is not necessary after an inguinal hernia operation. Patients can do what they feel capable of doing. So your surgeon may give you different advice and it's up to you to advocate for your own help and ask questions as to why because there might have been a complication or particular procedure used that increases your risk and then also just be upfront about what's your plan and undoing and try to come up with this sort of shared decision making plan with them. But that's what the data says. That's what the current guidelines are. So at least you have a few talking points to initiate that conversation and again, hopefully come up with a shared plan going forward. All right, that's a wrap on this video. Again, make sure you subscribe to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. We'll be here every Tuesday. Every Monday, we drop a new podcast wherever you get your podcasts from. Wednesday, you can join me over on my Instagram page, Jordan underscore barbell medicine. I do an Instagram live. So if you want to ask questions, we're there. Every Wednesday, night 530 p.m. Pacific Standard Time and we post a new article over on the Barbell Medicine website, barbell medicine.com. Every Friday. So we've got loads of content coming at you. So check us out across these platforms. If you want to stay up to date on all the latest nuance and the health and fitness world, we'll see you next time here on the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. See you.

=== FILE: Does Liposuction Make You Healthier？ [5xyPfHUIWoY].txt ===

Number seven is liposuction ever a good idea. And I think context for this question, you can view this question in a couple different contexts. One is in the context of our discussions all weekend here with respect to health. So I would kind of think back to when we talked about obesity and the situations where carrying excess body fat can be problematic. And in particular, we talked about how tight of a relationship there is with the abdominal waste or comforts and medical complications. And the reason why there's such a close relationship there is because that measurement reflects intrabdominal or what we call visceral body fat accumulation. Inside the abdomen, inside the organs, inside the liver, for example, which is different visceral body fat or addopose accumulation is a bit different than subqtaneous or body fat that accumulates under the skin. And so the one body fat or addoposes infiltrating your abdominal organs, your liver, your pancreas, things like that. That's when we see big time increases in diabetes risk, cardiovascular risk, things like that. Whereas liposuction as a treatment primarily removes subqtaneous body fat, not the condits inside, not the condits in the liver. So there's actually some data on this. There's a small study that I found while I was prepping for this where they took a group of women, some of whom had diabetes and some of whom did not all of whom had excess body fat and they performed serial, large volume liposuction. Removing large amounts of subqtaneous body fat. You're going to say something? What did you just move it? Put it someplace else? Yeah. Now, why you would do that? Okay. And they severely removed this subqtaneous body fat. And then when they looked at how they did afterwards, they did find that their waste circumference went down as a result of removing body fat. Obviously, their leptin levels went down and leptin is a hormone that is high when you have lots of body fat and low when you have less body fat. So that obviously went down. That all makes sense. When they measured their actual levels of insulin resistance and their cardiovascular risk factors, things like blood lipids and things like that, there's no change. So from a health standpoint, I do not have a good case to make for liposuction. If you say, is it ever a good idea? Well, that's strictly up to you from a cosmetic standpoint, you know, at that point. I would not recommend it for medical benefits. If there is excess body fat that needs to be dealt with, invasively or surgically, and there are medical issues going on, or even if there aren't, and you meet criteria based on the criteria that we talked about. Today, I would say, real bariatric surgery is far more beneficial from a health standpoint than liposuction would be because we talked about how the long term 20, 25-year follow-up of patients who get bariatric surgery. They have much greater and much more sustained weight loss and health benefits. You can cure diabetes in a couple days after getting bariatric surgery. It just goes away, which is pretty wild. Whereas liposuction does not have any of those benefits outside of cosmetic effects. I think if for whatever reason you're getting like this rural liposuction, don't think that's that liposuction. Maybe that, or if the liposuction would somehow improve at hearings to other lifestyle changes, if you felt like, I'm going to pay for this procedure from an aesthetic standpoint, or because I feel like it's going to jump start my progress. That's really going to help keep me motivated and it does, as far as improving adherence to a health promoting dietary pattern and exercise like cool. But if you're just like moving it around, you know, from like front to back, I don't know that that's the move.

=== FILE: Does YOUR Anatomy Predict Your Lifting Technique？ [-fU859dMat4].txt ===

A side from a lifters preferences and goals is there anything anatomical that a coach could look at to determine if a lifter would have an advantageous leverage for a specific squat or deadlift style. This is an interesting question. We've kind of answered something like this before on our YouTube channel. There are anthropometric features that I can look at and have in a guess. I can hazard a guess that somebody would prefer a particular style or maybe do better at a particular style, but I won't know until after they've exposed themselves to regular trening over a long period of time. So if we're just talking about like, let's see how much you can lift today, I would expect somebody with very short arms, for example, relative to their torso and lower extremities to might pull, they might be a better sumo deadlifter, right? Then a conventional pull, it provided no other treninGHas taken place. Somebody, for example, with really, really long femurs might do better with a low bar back squat, provided that they can rack the bar and a secure position. So that's just me thinking about all the folks that I've coached and trened throughout my career. That assumes no like the experience or trening by that person prior to that test. So I would feel very, very uncomfortable predicting like what type of style somebody should adopt based on their anthropometric measurements, particularly without seeing them lift, over a long period of time. Whatever style you adopt today is likely to change over the course of your trening career, based on changing leverages, preferences, skill development, and this things you unlock from exposing yourself to different trening variations. And I think any sort of prediction I can make is just going to be weak as far as it's predictive power. Yeah, nothing that I can measure on the person when they first come in is going to outweigh the combination of subjective athlete feedback over time as they tren and then objective performance metrics. So I don't think it's important to even attempt to predict certainly everybody would look at somebody who has gigantic long arms and say, oh, they're probably going to be a good deadlifter. Doesn't take a genius to recognize that in most people. But as far as saying, I'm going to force you to pull in a certain way because I think that you're built to pull this way. Meanwhile, they may be subjectively telling me, I really don't like this. This is not comfortable. Okay, I need to recognize that and accommodate for it in the coaching or the programming plan. So subjective athlete feedback and objective performance metrics over, as you said, a long period of time are going to what will guide those decisions much more so than just looking at somebody and saying, yeah, I'm going to fit you in this box. Right. And that's even better than any sort of screening test that we could do. Okay, if you place your toe six inches from the wall while you're kneeling and try to shove your knee to the wall, can you touch your knee to the wall? Ooh, you're missing some ankle door selection. In that case, we needed to adopt this particular squat style, both the bar placement, death, tempo, etc. Otherwise, you're at increased risk of injury. So not only did I know Cibo, the crap out of that person, one that's all made up gibberish. Made up gibberish because it has never been validated in any particular type of controlled setting. And about a who uses that type of test to predict squat stance, style, etc. Whenever may occasionally get right, get that right, or at least to the extent that can be right. And then there's subsequently just self-congratulation. And like, yeah, see I did it. So the point then becomes, why would you try to do this predict via anthropometry or why would you screen somebody for if they can do an exercise without having them do the exercise? Is that suggest that the exercise itself, doing the movement itself is so risky, right? Or it's so important to get it right the first time that you have to do something beforehand. And none of that is true. Exercise, even resistance trening, even heavy resistance trening, even heavy resistance trening with bad form, whatever that means, is very, very safe, very, very safe. Injury rate, injury incidence is very low. The duration of symptoms for people who do get injured is very, very short and self-limited. It's catastrophic injuries. In general, don't happen unless you happen to be a young kid, smash yourself over the head with the plate that you dropped. That happens sometimes. But so what I'm getting at is like, why would we do this? How many times do you screen somebody prior to exercise? Or they're like physical movement? Yeah, never. Yeah. Nope.

=== FILE: Does YOUR Hip Anatomy Determine YOUR Squat Stance？ Why Online ＂Movement＂ Gurus Are Wrong. [k_H6u_Cx4Oo].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Next question, I've recently watched a video from Squat about how the femurs sits on the hip will determine the optimal squat stance for individuals. Okay, so the first part of this is like that you would be able to tell prospectively without a person doing a squat going through any sort of trening intervention you would be able to tell just by looking at them and measurinGHow their hips are anatomically to tell them what stance would be ideal, which is clearly complete made up bullsh**. The other part would be like actually being able to measure this stuff with any degree of accuracy, also complete fabric, completely fabricated. And then the third part of this is is there an optimal stance for an individual. And I think that gets morecomplex when you talk about their preferred style, bar placement. Like I don't want to reduce it down to just the stance because all of these other things matter, right? And including like what is their standard? What are their points of performance sure with a lift? Like does it just blow a parallel? Is it you know, asked to grasp squat? Is it a front squat to get ready for like Olympic weightlifting performance? So all of that stuff matters and would change the stance anyway. The idea that your hips are going to determine the one weird stance that is appropriate for you. Completely is a foreign concept to me. And I think that those types of narratives in the exercise, fitness, rehab, medical, you know, pseudo-medical provider work, like just get them out of here. I think they're trash and I think this particular individual doesn't necessarily audience. I agree with the fact that there's no optimal squat stance for individuals as a generalizable kind of idea, which then just kind of like obviates the need to even address the rest of thEQuestion. But let's grant that and let's say that there is such a thing. Sure. I think that it would be like you said determined by so many other factors or so many other factors would play a role in determining that that female position alone is like one very simple variable in this much morecomplex system. And then taking it even further down, yes, the ability to assess the specific femoral head relationship to the socket, the acetabulum, etc. is extremely limited, particularly in the absence of radiographic assessment. So x-rays and things like that, like certainly not by physical examination, can you tell that kind of thing. You know Tom, one of the most embarrassing moments that he's ever had around me. We're in Australia. Okay, we're talking about hips because you know what you do. Yeah. And he said acetybellum. Oh boy. And I was like, excuse me? You know, and it's the one with his whole thing. He was an acetylabulum. And then I had this moment. I was like, oh no, I've turned into one of those guys. Well, dynamic nerd straight up. And I had all these flashbacks every time I got corrected for like saying bicep, for example, or tricep, for example. Or saying, I used to say, uh, doodum. And then the anatomy professor would stick your head out of the door and say, it's duodenum. I'm like, okay. I know for one thing, it's not acetybellum. Yeah. It's acetabulum across the board. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah, I don't give this concept effectively any stock. And I don't think that you can predict any what the positions, the style, the technique that somebody is going to ultimately prefer based on any single variable, including, you know, one's hip positioning. The other thing is like both of our stance's movement patterns, technique, squat style has evolved over the years too. And so, you know, we could have gone to some sort of a guru when we first started and he could have done some sort of a hip exam and said, oh, you need to stand this far apart with your toes in this position. And this is perfect for you. And that would have not necessarily been, you know, held true over the course of a whole trening career. Um, then includes many other changes, adaptations, structural adaptations, weight gain, weight loss, strength loss, like all kinds of stuff. So, I would just dismiss this concept. Anyway, it will also be bad too, because it's like, if you don't attain this particular width and toe angle, or whatever, then you're likely it increased risk of injury. Yeah. It's like, or reduce performance, imagine you make it to IPF worlds, right? And you're like walking out your third squat and your shoe gets like stuck on the carpet and you can't quite get that toe angle. And the only thing is, you know, if I just would have gotten the right toe angle, if I'm going to be charitable to thEQuestion and grant it some degree of, okay, I can see this point. Yeah. The, that that point would be to recognize that, um, there is substantial degree of inter-individual structural variation between people. Yeah. And that is a variable that can play a role in how people move and they're preferred squats to them. And they're preferred squats to, etc. So that would, you know, support the idea that when somebody comes in for coaching, you don't need to force them into a particular box of you need to stand like this with your toe angles like this. And this is the correct squat stance in general. So recognizing, yep, people are built differently. But I wouldn't use this concept to say, oh, there is a perfect way for you to stand and I can predict it based on knowinGHow your hips sits. Yeah, I would agree with that. And then just, when you add the hip part in there, it's like you lost me. Yeah, you lost me. It just means you don't understand the squat. You know, I tried. You tried to eat it.

=== FILE: Dr. Baraki on Low Back Pain at Fort Irwin (Part II) [JS5ZCCOv07c].txt ===

We're going to be able to make it to the talk this morning. I'm Austin Barakki. This is Jordan Fagan-Bomber. We're both physicians. We work for a company called Barbell Medicine where we go around and do a lot of education on topics related to physical trening, fitness, lifestyle, medicine, so to speak as well as we do a lot with respect to pain and rehabilitation, which is kind of what led us to end up here. Jordan gave a talk this morning to the soldier's kind of a general overview of back pain, given how common of an issue it is for humans in general and for soldiers in particular. This talk is going to be a little different. It's going to cover this a lot of similar content, but it's going to be directed more for the clinician level, because my understanding is that we have mainly clinicians in the audience, physicians, and PSPAs, etc. So it's going to be at a bit of a different level of discussion as well as the main reason why I wanted to have slides to associate with this one is to actually show the evidence base behind the recommendations that we make and why we suggest that you practice in a particular way and why you not do certain other things in order to justify it rather than just sayinGHere's what I think that you should do. So we're going to begin by establishing the scope of this problem and again some of these things are going to echo from what Jordan talked about this morning, but we should recognize that these data from the 2017 Lancet Global Burden of Disease study that they do periodically over time. And unfortunately with the colors you can't tell, but the overwhelming majority of the map in the world is shaded a deep purple on this map and that deep purple reflects low back pain. Countries where low back pain is the number one leading cause of years lived with disability in those countries. There are a few other countries with slightly different shading, several of them have depression also being a substantial contributor to that risk, which as you may know, intimately ties in with issues of low back pain. There are other areas on the map that are shaded a more of a pink color where opioid use issues are also fairly high up there, which also tie into this problem. So overall the scope of the problem is pretty enormous and the point prevalence i.e. the number of people in the world experiencing low back pain at any given time is quite high. Over 500 million people are experiencing this at any given time, meaning that, hey if you're having low back pain, you're definitely not alone. There are lots of people who are experiencing this statistically probably even somebody or a few people who are in this room right now. Which then raises the next question is are we at least getting better at treating this stuff? If it's so common, so prevalent, right? It's 2019. We have fancy technology. We have fancy medications, long acting meds. We have injections. We have MRIs, procedures, all kinds of things that we can do to people. And you would expect that with all these advances we should be putting a dent in this problem. Well here are the data going back to 1990 from the Lancet Global Burden of Disease Data, top and bottom reflecting women and men respectively here in terms of the top three contributors to years look with disability. That doesn't appear to be very reassuring, right? So over the same period if you look further down the list, you'll see all kinds of shuffling around some things increasing in terms of their contribution to disability other things going down as we get better and better at treating them. So maybe things like HIV infection, you'll see on that list goes substantially down because we've gotten, you know, modern medicine has been pretty amazing and how we've been able to screen for address treat HIV infection, right? Some of these other ones are shuffling around. You'll notice low back pain stays number one for quite a long time for decades. But then you might be like, well, yeah, but I imagine with all this stuff that we have nowadays, this fancy stuff that even though it's number one, it should probably be at least going down because we're getting a better handle on this, aren't we? Peers do not be the case. All the higher bar graphs here reflect 2015 prevalence and the lower are in 1990. So prevalence is increasing, not decreasing. A substantial portion of this is thought to be related to the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in aging the population, but nevertheless, over this period of time where we have enormous advances in our abilities in terms of what we can do, we are failing to put a dent in this. So I hammer on this at the beginning because I'm trying to make the case that the established ways that we go about this problem are failing. And so I'm going to present some things at the end of the talk in terms of how we should be doing this and you might say, that's really impractical and my current practice set up. I don't think that I can do this feasibly. I don't have the time to do this, right, for example. But that is not an adequate response to this. In other words, as healthcare professionals, we need to be advocating for system-wide, socio-cultural change on this matter because we're failing our patients when it comes to the management of this stuff and continuing to do the same thing is not going to get us any better results. So one layer and other, something is going to have to change here and these data should motivate us to say, you know, there's not one magic thing that I'm going to be able to do to my patients to fix them all of this, right? It's a really complicated problem that's going to involve a lot of social, cultural change and even a perfect examples within the military as we started talking about this morning at our talk. There are lots of kind of specific factors within the military context that are going to need to be addressed one layer and other. And so maybe the healthcare professionals need to start kind of rattling the cage so to speak to try to bring this to people's attention who are in positions to where some of this stuff can be addressed in a more productive manner. Otherwise, we're not going anywhere. So I like this quote about back pain, confronted with such a multiplicity of symptoms and causes, the diagnosis is usually difficult or uncertain and consequently treatment is unsatisfactory. This resonate with anybody who sees patients experiencing back pain, yes, should be like vigorously nodding. I strongly agree with this sentiment and you'll note that it was said over about a hundred years ago, which should also make us feel not very good about where we are today since all of us are like yep, that sounds about right, right? With everything we've done, we've failed to make much progress on this problem. So this should make us question whether we've been approaching this problem all wrong. So this is a great paper on the history looking back on the 20th century in terms of how have we approached this problem? Where have we gone wrong? They go back to the late 1890s. Back then, some of the dominant explanations for low back pain, particularly like in women, for example, was this weird diagnosis of hysteria, blaming the uterus for various maladies. But around that time, at the end of the 1800s, early 1900s, we invented the x-ray. So then what happened when we started x-raying people? When we started finding things, that's what happens when you look. So we started finding all kinds of things on x-rays, changes, and we started saying, oh, well, that has to be, right? That appears to be abnormal. That has to be what's causing this individual's pain. So they have beautiful graphs showinGHow the dominant explanations of the time, the common diagnoses delivered overwhelmingly shifted now to like bone-related problems. Because that's what we could see on x-rays. Then you fast forward a little further and we invent my biography and then we get CT scans and then we get MRIs and with each new invention, we start to see the dominant explanation for back pain shift, right? Eventually, then it became, oh, we can find disks that are, you know, up here abnormal. So back pains all in your disc. That's the problem. Then later on, we get FMRI, we start measuring changes that are occurring in people's brains who deal with persistent pain related issues and then suddenly, oh, pains all in your brain, right? Because we can see all these changes on FMRI. We keep making the same mistake over and over and over again. Right? This paper, they have two quotes that we like to point out. Number one is that clinicians, like all of us, we have an inclination to trust the results of technical diagnostics more than our personal judgment and we have an unconscious preference to favor ideologies that are visible, organic, and removable. IE things that we can see. Things that we can do something to or about. And this is just a reflectianavar trening. So all of us are trened under this biomedical model when we go through medical school, PA school, et cetera. The idea here is that every symptom has an underlying cause. Right? We're trened that a patient presents with a symptom, boom, suddenly a broad differential diagnosis jumps into our brains and we start asking further questions because there has to be an explanation for this individual symptom. Because all symptoms are all diseases, are what cause symptoms. So that's the way we kind of think through this model. And if we remove or attenuate the underlying disease process, if we treat it, inject it, cut it out. Right? Then the reason for the symptoms will be gone and our symptoms will disappear. It's a nice linear model that seems to superficially make sense. And this leads us to basically constantly be in search of aromasingular problem to fix. Right? Patient presents with a symptom. We want to find a problem to fix. That's the way we're trened. In some contexts, this approach can be super effective. Right? There are certain medical situations where you can find aromasingular problem to fix. Yep. There's HIV in the blood of this patient. That's something that we can treat directly. Oh, there's a malignant tumor here. We can treat that directly. With pain related issues, this model fails spectacularly. As it has over and over and over again, since the beginning of time, effectively. We're constantly trying to find aromasingular cause of symptoms. So how does this play out in your typical, biometically oriented evaluation in a clinical setting? Well, first, we have to understand our baseline rates of issues, the pre test probabilities, our natural history, things like that. We need to have a good understanding of before we can start to talk about specific nuances of pathology evaluation and treatment. So you guys are probably already familiar with a lot of these data that 85% of adults are experienced low back pain throughout life. I tend to believe that this is an underestimate. Think real world probably even more. People tend to experience back pain throughout life. Upwards of 90% of cases are non-specific, not in the sense that we, that it's not a big deal, that we can brush it off, that we can ignore it. Rather, we cannot identify aromasingular cause of the symptoms that is directly treatable or reversible. Of course, there's a very good natural history here, the overwhelming majority, resolve in a matter of days to weeks. Unfortunately, on the other hand, about a third of people experience a recurrence. That's some point over the course of their life, which I also suspect is probably an underestimate. But this suggests that back pain is a normal experience. You'll note that the people who don't experience back pain throughout life, they are the exception. Right? It's everybody else. The norm, who experience back pain, and you'll notice that the statistics here closely resemble that of something like a common cold. Tons of people experience that. Most of the cases, if we went and hunting for a diagnosis, we would come up empty outside of maybe some viral PCR tests and things like that, and the overwhelming majority are going to resolve. Right? It's part of life. But of course, in your biomedical evaluation, you're going to be looking for red flags. Now, these are also, unfortunately, imperfect. A huge proportion of people with low back pain will present with at least one red flag sign or symptom that we all get taught in our trening. Despite a very small minority actually having a serious underlying problem going on. So we're trying to search for them, but I think we also tend to put a lot more stock in their utility from a sensitivity specificity, kind of likelihood altering kind of diagnostic process. In other words, most of them don't actually change the post test probability of severe underlying causes all that much, or at least not nearly as much as we like to think. Right? So, having a history of cancer, major trauma, being on chronic asteroid, our situations that should get anybody's attention. Of course, we all need to be aware of not just the pre-test probabilities in general, but those in our particular clinical populations. So I work primarily in patient hospital medicine, which means I see all the zebras, right? The epidural abscesses, the vertebral osteo, all that kind of stuff, whereas in outpatient medicine, particularly in a generally young, healthy population, you guys pre-test probabilities even lower. So you need to havEQuite a lot of evidence to make a case that somethinGHorrifically wrong is going on with this individual. What about when we do our history and then we go to our physical exam? Everybody has physical exam nostalgia for the good old days where you could make really good diagnoses based on exam alone, until you actually look at the performance statistics of a lot of these tests. So there's been data on bony tenderness, soft tissue tenderness. We're all trened to put ground, oh, you're sore there. You probably have a muscle spasm. It's something that I hear people say all the time, or SI joint testing to localize that you have SI joint pain. Well, let's look at the interrader reliability. If we took all of you guys and had you examine the same patient using these techniques and we calculated cap of values based on interrader reliability. Let's see how these play out. Not very good. Nine out of ten doctors do not in fact agree that you have soft tissue tenderness at this particular spot. MusclEQuote unquote spasm, nobody knows what the hell they're talking about when they detect that on exam. But then consider how this plays out in practice when you tell somebody or when that's the way you're trened to think. There's a muscle spasm which is made up. Nobody can agree on it, but then what's the next logical treatment step to offer somebody who has a muscle spasm? Or you offer them a muscle relaxer? Sure, it makes sense. Then you look at the mechanism of action of a muscle relaxer and they're centrally acting trenquilizers. They don't do anything at the muscle. You're not giving them sexual colean or vicaronyms to actually relax their muscles, right? Because that would be bad to actually block their muscles from contracting. So, think about the impact of the words that we used to diagnose, something and how that impacts your next step in terms of your treatment preferences. Because the same thing plays out with patients. The words we used to label these diagnoses then inform their treatment preferences as well. You tell somebody they have a particular medical diagnosis. Well, logically to them, the next step is that I need to get surgery. So, I'm going to keep coming back to this idea of language and the words we used to describe this because it has huge implications for how this stuff plays out in the real world. This in particular is just a point out that, hey, your physical exam, when it comes to back pain, probably not as good as you thought, maybe don't worry too much about these particular sorts of findings. They're not diagnosedically useful. Okay. What if we send them through the answer donut? Right? This thing tells us exactly what this patient has. Of course, many of you will probably have seen these sorts of data. This is from a 2015 paper. The columns across the top are ages and these are the incidents or the prevalence, excuse me, of these findings in asymptomatic people who have no symptoms whatsoever across the lifespan. So, you'll notice the prevalence of disc degeneration among 20 year olds. Almost 40 percent of people in their 20s have disc degeneration, quote unquote, sounds really bad. Sounds really scary. Right? These are individuals who have no symptoms, no problems, no disabilities, no impact on their physical function. And then you go all the way across to the people in their 80s and it says 96 percent of people in their 80s. Anybody here believe that or is it 100 percent? I know what I would think if I had spinal imaging on an 85 year old and it told me flawless, no degeneration whatsoever. I'd say wrong patient. This is not the scan that I thought that I'm looking at the wrong imaging result. The point being that you see how high the prevalence gets with age, which suggests that this is a normal age related change. Right? There are lots of other things that have that same sort of prevalence across the lifespan that we don't pathologize to the extent that we do degenerative disc disease. For example, few things that Jordan mentioned this morning, gray hair. You look at gray hair, incidents and prevalence across the lifespan. It probably follows a pretty similar trajectory. Right? Maybe a quarter, maybe a third of people, particularly in their late 20s. Right? Might be starting to sprout a few gray hairs. But then you go to somebody in their 80s, 96 percent. Okay. I'm going to say it's 100 percent. Right? Of people in their 80s are going to have some gray hairs. But we don't go around telling them that they have degenerative hair disease. Right? It's a big. We don't pathologize it because it's a normal age related change. It's not a big deal. Same thing with skin wrinkles. Right? People in the 30s might start to have a few skin wrinkles. Might have a little more skin wrinkles, say if they smoke or something like that. But then by the time somebody's in their 80s, it's a normal age related thing. They don't have degenerative skin disease. We don't need to pathologize it. So degenerative disc disease, we prefer the term age normal age related changes. I don't use it as an explanatory reason for why somebody has pain because I can't confidently link those two. And it's a scary diagnostic term. When you tell somebody who doesn't have any medical trening, who doesn't understand this kind of prevalence that they have a degenerative disease. It's like, woo. You know? It's potentially really harmful because of how that might impact their subsequent behavior. Right? They might leave your office after you told them that they had a degenerative disease terrified to bend over, terrified to use their back to do their 80 else, to live their lives. So the words we use here matter quite a lot. And there are some interesting other data on a lot of these other findings, including things like discarnations. Right? Even in people in the 20s and 30s, 30 people, you'll find them. If you look, no symptoms, no functional impact whatsoever. Right? So the point of this is not to dismiss all of these things as never relevant ever. Right? But it should make you a little bit less confident if you are to pursue imaging in somebody. And you are to find things. How confident should you be in tying them together to explain this individual symptoms? Is it possible plausible or even likely that this finding was present long before they came to you with back pain? Right? And now that you looked, you're finding it. So we need to be careful how we frame these things to our patients. And indeed, there are data on what the effects are of radiologists rewarding their radiology reports to be less scary and threatening. Patients feel better about it. They feel more in control of the situation. Less fearful. Which is something that I think is starting to spread a little bit more. I think the last time I worked in a VA hospital a couple of years ago, I started to see radiologists including some of these data in their findings. They would say, you know, evidence of a hernetic disc, however, should be noted that the baseline prevalence of this in this cohort is x percent. So keep that in mind when you correlate clinically. Right? That was a common thing that they would add, which I found very useful. What about the predictability of these findings? We found a bunch of baseline asymptomatic findings, but you might be like, well, okay, but maybe if somebody has some of these findings on MRI, maybe they might be more likely to develop symptoms over time. Fortunately, we have some data on this as well. So to no sue in their colleagues, this was published two years ago, they took 91 individuals with a history of low back pain. They did MRIs on all of them at baseline. Checked in on them 10 years later, took kind of an interval history and repeated MRIs a decade later after their initial one. What were the findings? They found that neither the baseline MRI at the beginning nor the follow-up MRI findings 10 years later were associated with low back pain history during the intervening 10 years. The progression of any findings, IE if things looked worse on the second one from the first also didn't appear to be associated with low back pain, suggesting that maybe we're just seeing progression of normal age related changes. And they concluded that our data suggests that baseline MRI findings probably can't predict future low back pain. In other words, how much stock we should be putting in these incidental findings on baseline imaging, probably not a whole lot of stock that we should be putting in them. So this leads to choosing wisely guidelines from just about every pertinent organization you can think of on the matter, saying don't do imaging, particularly in the early phase with these patients, unless there is specific reasoning to suggest aromasinister underlying ideology that needs to be diagnosed in order to alter management. In other words, if you were to find what you're worried about and you're still going to say, man, just go about, you know, try to stay active. I suspect this will get better with time than still no reason to do imaging in that case. Despite all of these guidelines and consensus statements from all these organizations, how well are we doing with this. This was published just last year. They looked at almost 20 million clinical encounters for low back pain over this time period because again, this is a very common problem. And they wanted to look at the incidence of imaging, a quarter of patients in primary care, a third of patients in emergency care received imaging. This is way higher than it should be given the nature of this problem. Did the guidelines make an impact on this? How good are clinicians that paying attention to this? Not very. Not very. The more access we have to fancy testing, the more fancy testing we end up ordering. Without recognizing what the consequences of this are on the other side. People like, well, it's just harmless to get, let's just get it. What could the harms be? The harms can bEQuite substantial. Even if individuals presented with ridiculous apathy symptoms, right, radiating pain symptoms down to the floor. Their outcomes were the same regardless of whether they got early MRI or not. They had much lower rates of going off disability, which should be a major concern for everybody, but in particular in the military context, right? We don't want people to be disabled. In any context, you guys have a particular interest in your soldiers being physically functional and able to do the jobs that they need to be able to do. But the problem is what happens when you get an MRI? You find things that suddenly medicalizes their experience. Suddenly, their pain is due to a disease. They have a condition. They have a disc. That plants a seed in the individuals' mind that impacts all their subsequent activity and their subsequent behaviors. Because pain is very poorly correlated with the current state of your tissues, particularly when pain has been around for a while. But in general, pain correlates poorly with the state of your tissues. It more is correlated with the perception of threat. It's more correlated with the perception of threat. So, the more threat and individual perceives about their symptoms, the greater their pain intensity and degree of disability is going to be. More fear, more anxiety, more canesia phobia, which is a term that means fear of movement and catastrophizing, meaning worst case scenario thinking. Suddenly, when we find things we attach diagnostic labels to it, give it an ominous meaning, associated with higher threat, higher emotional resonance and people are more fearful and more disabled, less likely to engage in normal physical activities. And of course, costs are higher, which is not great either. So, what does usual treatment look like in this context? Well, somebody has symptoms. We like to treat symptoms. We like to alleviate suffering. Right? Okay. So, how do medicines do? Well, a C-demonophane, paracetamal, Tylenol, placebo-controlled trials. We give it to anybody because it's generally safe, cheap, inexpensive, low-risk, etc. But no benefit, pretty high quality evidence that there's no benefit to its use in low back pain. What about insides? Average pain reduction of about 0.8 points out of 10 for low back pain, which is not nothing, something. This is particularly in the acute phase. Right? So, not as useful at all for more chronic longer term low back pain. Muscle relaxants, in quotes, because again, they don't relax your muscles. Two points in terms of pain reduction in the acute setting. So, very short-term use. That's something. There is, of course, an increased risk of adverse effects harms from this. But I understand the clinical population you guys work with might be a little different than the one that I see more often in terms of, I'm not going to be putting most of my 80-year-old people who are coming into the hospital on muscle relaxers. But in terms of very short-term use, there is some evidence for that. Again, very short-term use. This is, like, I would say, matter of, like, a couple days. No more than that because what do I actually want them to do? Be active. Right? Live their lives, as normally as they possibly can. Systemic steroids, terrible choice, used all the time, medrawal dose packs, way overused for this sort of situation, should not be used ever in this context. Opioids, we don't even need to go down that rabbit hole. Please don't. Gabba Pentin, pre-gablin. This one might be surprising to some individuals. Right? These neuropathic agents. This is another one where the language can be kind of interesting, right? Because sometimes patients come in and what do they say? I'm having nerve pain, doc. And you might not dig into that further. What do you mean when you say you have nerve pain? It might just be like, okay, I guess I give you gabapentin then. Right? It's like my knee jerk response to nerve pain is to give a neuropathic agent. But there's good evidence on these, as well as other anti-apalaptics that they don't work very well. And of course, they can cause harm. Right? DuLoxatine, which we're all trened in medical trening is great for back pain, right? It's this weird side effect that we like to take advantage of. Yeah, okay. Like that's probably less than a minimum clinically important difference. If I had to look at that point six of a point out of 10, but it is what it is. And then other anti-depressants don't have any clear benefit for this, including tricyclics, which are used for pain issues all the time as well, as well in addition to all their additional anti-colleinurgic anti-histaminurgic side effects, things like that. So medications, unfortunately, not that helpful, which should make sense in the context of back pain being a exceedingly complex, multifactorial bioscicial problem, right? Hitting a few receptors here and there is unlikely to make a huge difference in this. And I would add that when it comes to acute back pain, we have very little evidence that anything we do can alter the clinical trajectory of acute low back pain, other than keeping people active. It's one way to cause harm, get recommending rest, but all the other things that we can do for acute low back pain don't seem to really alter the trajectory. It's going to get better on its own in the overwhelming majority of people, right? Medications for longer term use, not super effective. What about injecting them directly into the source into the spine, right? ThEQuote unquote pain generator. Well, for a particular back pain, get seven, seven and a half points out of a hundred on average. So point seven point pain reduction, which is again, not nothing, but probably less than a minimum clinically important difference and no long-term benefits in this situation. Some people may on a case-by-case basis with a patient who has confirmed acute lumbus acroediculopathy, for example, end up choosing to pursue that, but in general, I have a hard time recommending this for broad use in this kind of a situation, not only non-zero risks associated with them, but to the extent, IMean, in spinal injections are known to have a substantial placebo response, right? And some people might say, that sounds great. The problem is you're conditioning somebody to a placebo response, and then we end up with patients like many of the folks who I used to see at the VA, for example, who would just come in acute three months for their routine injections, for the rest of their lives, for something that is non-efficacious as compared to placebo. That's not okay. We shouldn't be conditioning our patients to this stuff, particularly when there's non-zero risk. So, would not recommend. With all this said, usuALCARe, quote-unquote, this was actually just published literally like, you know, two weeks ago, almost 200,000 patient encounters in family practice and emergency room settings. They found that less than 20% of patients in these settings received evidence-based information and advice from their family practitioner. Less than 20% received evidence-based advice. This is a big problem. UsuALCARe included overuse of imaging and opioid prescription and underuse of advice and information. An advice and information is the number one thing that we can offer individuals in this situation to at least get them through the acute phase. Right? Longer term stuff gets even exceeding exponentially morecomplex, right? But just giving somebody a script for something and not giving them any information or advice on this situation is a huge problem. The way I like to frame this sort of situation is not unlike when you're say you're in the hospital and there are these things called universal precautions, where you have to wash your hands before in and out of every room or where contact stuff for patients with certain infection related issues. I prefer universal precautions for patients presenting with acute pain syndromes and I'm going to treat them as if they are at exceedingly high risk of progression to a chronic or persistent pain state. I'm going to treat them with as much education information advice, try to debunk myths, assuage their fears, get them active, things like that in order to minimize the risk that they're going to progress to a chronic pain situation. Do this with everybody up front and you'll be doing as much as you can in the acute phase. So universal precautions here. They are you that sub-optimALCARe as shown here may contribute to the massive burden of the condition worldwide that I showed you guys at the beginning. So this brings up language again. The enduring impact of language on patients. When survey, this is a group of about 150 patients with chronic low back pain when they were surveyed about their beliefs about low back pain, they said that they had very negative beliefs. They thought back pain was very negative, very complex. It was it was likely permanent. They viewed the body as like a broken machine. That was their conceptualization of this problem that they were broken. And when asked then where did you get these ideas from? Where did these beliefs come from? Almost 90% they said they came from healthcare professionals. The same healthcare professionals who took an oath to do no harm appear to be doing a whole lot of harm to their patients by giving them negative ideas beliefs about the nature of their pain, the meaning of their pain, the expected trajectory, the natural history of their pain. We're giving them really harmful negative ideas and beliefs either in the way we say things or by failing to give them advice in many situations. So chronic low back pain in some context has been argued to be an eye-atrogenic disorder from this perspective. There are a lot of things we could be doing that were not or things that were doing wrong that are harming patients. So keep that in mind. Expectations drive outcomes in the situation. So when patients come into us with low back pain, what do they want? Also this was just published within the past six months. They want clear, consistent and understandable information on all of these factors. Now you'll notice the first two a cause of pain and underlying pathology diagnosis and imaging. Those are tricky conversations to have. Right? It's tricky to help somebody understand that they have a symptom. There assumption is I have a symptom so something must be wrong. If nothing was wrong, I wouldn't have a symptom. That's this linear biomedical model of thinking but pain is really complicated. It doesn't fit this model. So that's a difficult conversation to have and is a lot of what Dr. Faggin-Mont talked about this morning with the soldiers in terms of how to frame this and we'll come back to this. But they also want information about the prognosis of their symptoms. The impact on their future disability, their ability to work, they want to know about precipitants of low back pain, i.e. flares and what they should do in those situations. How they should manage those. This is where we fall flat a lot. Again, failing to give information and advice to patients. It's underused in these situations. So what should we be doing? Not using a rigid linear biomedical approach for one. Falling into this trap of, oh, you have a symptom. There has to be a cause. Let me go searching for it with an MRI. For example, that's going to lead you down a path of causing substantial harm and finding a whole bunch of false positives and red herrings that are both unfruitful and increased risk of disability for our patients, which is not what we want to be doing. Furthermore, there are growing arguments in the literature on this that we should be in many most cases of possible shifting our therapeutic target away from the pain score itself. Sure, you all feel similarly to how I do about pain scores. But for many patients, zero pain may be an unrealistic goal. So what should we be focusing on? We should be focusing on optimizing physical function as much as possible. We are limited. Even with 2019 technologies, we're limited as far as how much of an impact we can have on pain. You can look at every possible intervention, even the stuff that we recommend. Education and exercise for this kind of thinGHas a modest, to moderate effect on pain intensity. I can't tell you what we can, of course, take people's pain down to zero with enough drugs, but that's not an ideal solution either. So sometimes reframing or shifting therapeutic targets to living as well as you can with some discomfort with some pain or optimizing physical function may be a more realistic goal or target to work towards. So what are some of these predictors of good physical function outcomes versus the opposite being more disabled? Well, low socioeconomic status, potential for compensation, which I know is an issue in military contexts. Psychological distress about the nature and meaning of pain and its potential impact on them, catastrophizing, again, referring to worst case scenario thinking. So somebody has a backache and it must mean that I fractured all my vertebra or all my discs are now herniated. That's like people sometimes people actually think like this. Fear avoidance behavior, the belief that because pain means damage, that means that anything that hurts, I should avoid it. That's a negative harmful kind of line of thinking and leads people to become more and more disabled as they withdraw from more and more activities that are associated with any discomfort. So whereas the classic joke about doctors where patient shows up and says this hurts and the doctor says, okay, don't do that. That's that advice, right? We want to get patients engaging this activity that is associated with potential threat. Pain, again, being threat perception, not tissue damage in terms of a one-to-one correlation there. And that might involve a bit of a conversation, a bit of education to say it's okay to work into a little bit of this comfort, right? We want to optimize your physical function here. And low self-efficacy is a big one. This is one of the biggest predictors of chronic kind of persistent pain related issues. Self-efficacy referring to the individual sense that they have a degree of control over the situation, that they have a role to play, that they have things that they can do about this. The opposite of this would be like a learned helplessness kind of scenario where they feel like there's nothing they can do to impact the situation. They need somebody else to fix them, to inject them, to medicate them, whatever, right? So low self-efficacy is a bad sign here. So we should one of the things we should be aiming for is trying to find ways to put the patient in the driver's seat on this. Get them to play a role in their own care, to understand that they have a role to play that there are things that they can do to optimize their physical function and potentially mitigate their symptoms, ideally. And not MRI findings, as I discussed earlier, are not going to be predictive of disability in the situation. So all of this is to say it's really, really, really complicated, right? Really complicated. I fully recognize that and that's part of why there's no easy answer here. It's part of why it's so prevalent in the world. I wish I could swoop in here and show you guys like a fancy manual therapy technique to like make pain disappear, but doesn't work like that. Never has worked like that and never will work like that. You have to treat the human. Treat the human not the disc, right? Because again, we are so tempted to find an isolated pathoanotomic cause of pain and treat that. This is what happens when you go, do we have any orthopedic surgeons in the audience? This is what happens when you go to the orthopedic surgeons office. You get a preclinic x-ray, which may or may not be indicated, but it's required to show up. And then they already know what your diagnosis is before you come in, right? Because they've looked at your picture. And if the picture doesn't show anything, then they probably don't need to see you because there's nothing to cut, right? That's the biomedical thinking in a nutshell, right? But we need to treat people, not their discs, not their susat joints, etc. Pain is really complicated. It impacts people in very, very complicated ways. So we need a bioseccial assessment of people, assess the biological risks. What are some of the biological risks that we might come across? Well, one is some of the red flag stuff that, of course we have to, we have to check for, we have to look for, right? But whether other biological factors we talk about some of them this morning with the soldiers, one might be their physical trening load, right? How much physical load are they under in terms of their trening, being out in the field, etc. Compared to how much trening load are they prepared to handle? Have they been adequately trened up to handle the loads that we are putting upon them? Right? Fatigue state, sleep state, other concomitant illnesses, right? All of these things can feed into pain. Psychosocial stuff. So I'll get into that in a little bit. That assessment is what significantly under-underdone in practice when it comes to this stuff. This start-back tool is one. It's like a small questionnaire. I'm not a huge fan of these because everybody who comes to talk to you about a clinical problem, they have their own validated questionnaire that they want you to do with their patients. And I know that if I were in that situation, I'm not going to pull out a new questionnaire for every patient that sees me throughout the day. But if you're into that kind of thing, this is one that you can use to risk stratify your low-back pain patients in terms of how what intensity of intervention are they going to need? Are they high-risk of progressing to a chronic persistent pain issue? Perhaps because of really low expectations, fear avoidance type behavior, catastrophizing, low-self efficacy, things like that, that tool can help you risk stratify that. But I personally don't use it in practice. I just get to know the person. I ask them questions and I'm like, oh, this person's got a lot of problems that we're going to have to work on versus using a questionnaire. So assessing these things, which I just mentioned, and again, self-efficacy, getting a sense of how in-control do they feel? Do they feel like they have a role to play that there's anything they can do is really important because if they say no and no and I need you to fix me, that's a yellow flag up front, right? That's something that should get your attention and you need to work on that early. So current guidelines on this stuff suggest a few steps, listening, connecting to the person, tell me about your experience. There's some evidence even that just listening and data gathering, itself can improve outcomes. Even if you don't do anything else, just listening to people's story, data gathering can improve outcomes on this. What have you been told about your back before? One of the most useful questions that I find, you will be amazed at some of the things people have been told, right? I've been told that I have severe multi-level degenerative disc disease and I'm one wrong move away from being paralyzed. People have been told that, so how do you think that person is going to carry themselves, live their lives day to day? They're going to be like, yes, I better not bend the wrong way or I'm like, you know, toast. That's inducing disability, that is doinGHarm to a patient, right? Now we don't think about it as doinGHarm in the same way we think about harm from a wrong site surgery or a medication, you know, mess up or something like that, but in my mind, it can be at least as big of an error if not more because you're potentially disabling somebody for the rest of their life if these beliefs get too deeply ingrained. What are you most worried about? There's a question I ask every single person that IMeet in the emergency room. I don't know why they came in. What are they most worried about? Maybe there's something easy that I can just give them reassurance on right off the bat, right? Also, it'll tell you what they're worried about so that you can focus some intervention on reducing their psychological distress anxiety and fear over the issue, which is a huge contributor to disability. These are very good questions to ask. Reassurance, resetting expectations, therapeutic targets and providing advice. Remember, usuALCARe right now, less than 20% of patients are receiving evidence-based information and advice. Give patients information and advice on the matter. They should be recommended to stay active, remain at work. The more permission to be disabled, we give people the more disabled they tend to get. So staying at work, that even from a symbolic standpoint, has huge significance for people when they say, I can't work because of my symptoms. The second one is perhaps the biggest thing that we can convey to people. Remember how I'm making the case, the argument that pain is more reflective of threat perception as it is modulated by biological, psychological and social factors. And so if somebody is afraid to do something or if they experience pain with doing something that reflects a degree of threat perception, what we would like to do is de-threaten activity. We want bending over to be perceived as safe. You're safe to move. Exercise to be safe because it is, in fact, very safe. The risks of exercise are exceedingly low. All that stuff is social influences that are percolating into our brains and making us believe that our spines are fragile structures that need a whole lot of protection. When really, evolutionarily, they're there to protect one of the most important structures in our whole body or spinal cord that lets us move around. They're pretty robust structures. They're pretty resilient structures. They can adapt to load. Both our vertebra, our discs, our ligaments, all that stuff can adapt to load. So we need to get people to trust their backs rather than viewing them as fragile structures that need to be protected. Because catastrophic spinal failure doesn't really happen. Almost ever, outside of say somebody has severe end stage osteoporosis and they get in a highway car crash. Then you might have some significant tissue injury. That's a unique situation. In general, not a huge deal. So again, universal precautions with people. Debonking myths. In general, I don't like going out of my way to debunk myths like in the public sphere because it's difficult to change people's minds. But this is one where there can be some innate ingrained beliefs and people's minds that if left unaddressed, you will never make progress with the individual. So examples, the meaning of pain. People's belief that pain means damage. This is something that particularly in the osteoarthritis population leads to a huge amount of disability. Because they feel that any movement means they're like, you know, I can feel the snap crackles and pops in my joint. That means I'm doing damage. When what do we know about OA? Exercise, strength trening, improve outcomes markedly, right? Which doesn't make a lot of sense if you're under the mindset of it's a wear entire kind of thing. Which is why I don't use those words with patience. You tell somebody you got wear and tear, but I want you to go lift weight. They're going to be like, that doesn't make sense. I'm not going to do that. So instead the way we frame these things, the way we explain them really matters. So the meaning of pain as threat rather than damage or injury is really important. Again, this idea that we should just avoid things that hurt. Not a fan of it. We have to engage the threatening activity. Perhaps it might need to be modified in some way. Perhaps the dosage of activity might matter. So if somebody has some back pain with bending over, I want them to bend to pick stuff up. Now I'm not going to say, yeah, you got a little back pain. I want you going deadlift 500 right now. If they're not prepared for that. But if there are a thousand pound deadlifter, then maybe IMight say, yeah, go pick up 500. It'll be easy for you. Not a big deal. It's about what you're prepared for. Are you prepared to do what you're trying to do? Engage the threat. This idea of spinal fragility is one that should be challenged with people, because the spine is not fragile. The role of posture, asymmetries, any number of other explanations when it comes to back pain. If you go around to any different type of clinician, practitioner, lay person, a health care professional when you ask them about their explanation for why somebody has pain, you'll get like a million different explanations for this stuff. There's no correct or incorrect posture. You'll see lots of different postures in the room right now. We can occupy lots of different positions. We can do lots of different activities and the dosage of activity matters far more than the absolute positions that we occupy. How long are you trying to do this thing? How much are you trying to do? Are you doing too much too soon? So we don't demonize or vilify any particular position when it comes to posture. We're optimists when it comes to this stuff. You can do a whole lot of things and you can adapt to do a whole lot of things, which is good news. And of course the role of imaging is another one that is a big myth that needs to be addressed with patients. Lots of patients come in wanting it. That can be a challenging conversation to have, but it needs to be had. What's another example of a myth is that people feel that they might have a herniated disc and they're toast. That's it. Done for life. I had about two months ago, I had an inpatient. She was a 65-year-old woman who was admitted for a heart failure exacerbation and the residents were presenting this patient's case to me and they said, oh by the way, she's been bedbound for like 30 years. And I'm like, she's like in her 60s. What's the deal? Why is she bedbound? And we went an aster and she said, it's because I have a herniated disc that was diagnosed like 30 years ago. She's been in bed ever since. And you shake your heads, you're like that is insane as ridiculous. But who knows what she was told at the time. Maybe she was told and she had motor function in her legs. She was not actually paraplegic from this. Who knows what she was told. Maybe she thought that I have a herniated disc. My spine's done. My life is over. I can't move around. It's too dangerous. I could be paralyzed with any wrong move, something like that. I wonder how her life trajectory may have been different. If somebody pointed out to her that discs heal. And this is not just a case reportable event here, even though I'm pulling this from New England Journal, not a case reportable event. Look at the incidents of spontaneous healing of herniated discs. Particularly the worse the herniation, the higher the likelihood that it heals. Disculges, they're not even a problem in my opinion. So whatever, I don't care about that. But more severe down below extrusion, sequestrations of the discs, they're the most likely to heal of them all. What if she had been given that information 30 years ago when she presented with some back pain? Which may or may not have been related to the disc herniation they found on the image to get all? Maybe she would have been thriving for the past 30 years instead of being bedbound, becoming morbidly obese, developinGHeart failure, and then having the pleasure of seeing me in the hospital. Again, the impact that you have with the words you use with your patients is literally like life altering. I wish I can like emphasize this more in terms of the power that you have to either set patients up for success or do potentially irreparable harm to people, depending on how you discuss this stuff with your patients or just even in social contexts with one another. Right? Throughout a party and you're talking about back pain, how many people are willing to jump up with their idea about why you have back pain or what they did the last time they had back pain? Or they're dad who got spine surgery and he's been paralyzed ever since I'm like, I don't need to hear any of this. Right? So the psychosocial influences here are really, really, really, really critically important. So for this reason, it has been argued that mass media campaigns are needed to counter all of these misconceptions because they're out there. Jordan and I cannot do this on our own. Right? Even if we had a few of you guys jump on board, we're still hopeless against a lot of this stuff. That's why we're traveling around educating, inoculating, immunizing as many people against these problems as we can. But I recognize even from your situation, you're in clinic seeing a ton of patients short appointment times, lots of confounding issues, military hierarchies, incentives, disincentives, things like that that are really complicated. Right? So we need to get more people involved in this, higher up people involved in this. Mass media campaigns, maybe we need to start with a mass media campaign within the military show that we can get better outcomes than it jumps out to the real world. Who knows? Right? But this is not something that, again, can give you a magic fix for. It's a whole socio-cultural thing that needs to shift. It's going to take a long time to do. But that's why we're here. So in addition to listening and connecting with the person, listening their story, giving them information and advice, debunking myths, we should also be promoting shared goal-setting and self-efficacy. Again, putting the patient in the driver's seat with this stuff rather than setting the idea, the expectation, the narrative, that they need clinicians to fix them. Because we can't. Right? We'd like to think we can, but we can't. Even the surgeons, among us, in this situation. We can't fix them. So asking questions like, what would you like to be able to do the most? What do you feel? You can't do right now. What kind of steps do you think we can take to start working towards that? What do you think you can do in this situation to get closer to doing that? And they may have some ideas. Which maybe a great opportunity to say, yes, absolutely. Let's start with that. Or they might have no ideas because they have low self-efficacy and they don't believe they have a role to play. Well, you've just screened for caught that and you can start to work on it. Of course, this requires establishing some rapport and some trust with your patients. But of course, that's part of the process of treating a human rather than treating a disc. Right? You don't need a disc to trust you if you want to cut it out. Unfortunately, that doesn't work. So you have to treat the human. So our overarching goals, the two things that we are here to try to do or the two things that we try to do when we give these sorts of talks, is altar people's learned responses to pain and establish a plan for graded return to valued activities. Things that matter to that person. Now, altering learned responses, this is tricky, right? Because you guys are mostly dealing with adults who are having back pain. And these adults may have had a whole lifetime of accumulated learned responses to pain based on their understanding of what pain is, what it means, what should be done about it. Maybe they have, maybe they grew up, their whole childhood seeing a parent with a bad back, right? Who didn't move, who didn't exercise, who used a motorized wheelchair or something like that because of their back or like the patient who had in the hospital? How might that experience have impacted on her kids? And they are learned responses to pain, were they like, oh, my back hurts. I don't want to end up like my mom. Oh no, it's happening to me. Why me? So this is hard. So we have to evaluate. We have to get a sense of what people's history and experience has been with this stuff so that we can start to shift it so they can respond to pain in a more productive manner. Less fear of movement, more willing to engage in activity, particularly those activities that are deemed to be threatening, which may be a trap-mortead lift for your population. They may deem that profoundly threatening. So we need to de-threaten that activity. Altered people's learned response so that their anxiety and heart rate doesn't shoot sky high when they just see a trap-mortar lying on the floor in front of them. That's a profoundly threatening thing to some of them. Profound threat means higher risk for pain. So we need to steer that in the other direction. So what does this look like? Is there evidence for this sort of thing? In terms of combined shared goal setting on this stuff, plus giving people information and advice, compared to just giving them advice alone. Well, here's differences in disability outcomes when it comes to pain in this situation. Just giving people advice, modest effect, advice plus shared goal setting, regular follow-ups checking in on that. And here's pain intensity, differences. Notable differences, right? Again, we can't take pain to zero in everybody, but this is the best shot we have based on current guidelines, current evidence, and the fact that, again, less than 20% of patients are getting this stuff is a shame. So hopefully we can start to make some improvements on that front. So when we're going to recommend exercise to patients, what should that look like? What things should be emphasized, more or less? Well, here's what matters less. So I would not put tons of your emphasized here. There's no one specific type of exercise that's been demonstrated to give better outcomes than any other. The specific details of the exercise program, doing sets of six versus sets of eight versus sets of 12. In this in pain related issues, no evidence to believe that anyone is better than another prospectively. It'll just be based on how the individual feels about exercise, their perceptions, and what they're willing to engage in. Specific exercises. As well as we do not prefer putting in enormous, inordinate amount of emphasis on moving perfectly. There is no one perfect technique. People move in a variety of ways. They can adapt to move in a variety of ways. And additionally, constantly barraging people with narratives of you have to move perfectly. You have to do it this way. If you do it wrong, what happens? Your spine explodes. Bad things happen. That's counterproductive. That's increasing the threat associated with movement and exercise. So we teach people, we coach people ourselves, we teach them lifting technique and how to lift efficiently and how to lift the most weight because that's what a lot of people want to do. But we don't pair it with a narrative of pair it, not pair it like the bird. But pair it with a narrative of you must move this way. Otherwise, horrible things will happen. That's really harmful. Because again, then what happens? As you have somebody setting up for their deadlift and they are hyper-vigilant, focused on their low back. Like, if I feel anything wronGHere, I need to stop and sprint out of the gym. Because this is a very, he told me I have to move perfectly. Because it's such a dangerous thing after all. It's like, no, it's not particularly dangerous. Resistance trening is pretty safe. You can move it a whole lot of ways. If your spine flexes a little bit, it's actually not a huge deal. So we can coach people for movement efficiency. But again, be careful the narratives, the words that you craft around this stuff. We want to de-threaten movement. Not increase the threat value associated with movement. On the other hand, what matters more is people's perception of exercise. Is it threatening? Is it dangerous? Right? Most people out there, I won't say most because I don't have a reference for that. A lot of people view resistance exercise as dangerous, which does not have supporting evidence for it's quite safe. So we need to de-threaten this activity. You guys have no choice but to de-threaten it because your soldiers are going to have to do it. Right? I don't think they're going to go back on this plan. Right? At least I hope not. So because I think overall it's incentivizing good things. Getting people more trened. ThEQuestion again is, are you prepared to do what you're being asked to do? Or have you never dead lifted before and now you're showing up to do a three-year-at-max? Yeah, that's silly. Right? So de-threatening, improving perception of exercise, increasing self-efficacy, showing people that they can do this, that they have a role to play, and the dosage of activity. The dosage of activity. How many sets reps, the absolute loads, things like that need to be start low, goes slow. Just like we do with medications or anything else in practice when we have time to work on things. So the ideal situation is people start trening yesterday for their ACFT. That's coming up in six months. Not a week out. Right? There are lots of, IMean this all comes down to behavior change, which is like what family practice is, or primary care is, and it's hard. So just as hard as behavior change in obesity or any other kind of context. But again, you guys will have a choice. If we keep doing what we've been doing, we're going to get the same results we always got that I showed you at the beginning. Horrible outcomes, increasing prevalence, more disability. So one way or another, things are going to have to change on this front. Take home points. A cute, non-specific low-back pain has a very good prognosis. We should tell patients this. We should set these sorts of expectations that it has a good prognosis. Give information and advice. Specifically, that they should remain active. IE, not rest, bed rest, etc. Stay at work. We're trying to alter people's learned responses to pain. Right? So if somebody's learned response over a lifetime of having maybe recurrent episodes of low-back pain, I've heard this before, is, oh, I tweaked my back again. Last time I did this, I was laid up in bed for six weeks. What are they telling you? Their expectation is that they're going to be laid up in bed for another six weeks. We need to alter that learned response. Instead to say, oh, I tweaked my back, but I know nothing bad is going on. It's probably going to get better on it, so I'm just going to go on living my life. Right? That's the ideal situation here. In appropriate use of imaging causes real harm. Biomatically focused interventions, IE, those that are focused on finding, treating, removing a specific patho-initomic lesion are generally ineffective and low-value care. Versus a biosecsocial approach that emphasizes patient reassurance that promotes individual self-efficacy and that de-threatens movement. All of these things improves outcomes. So we want to provide reassurance, self-efficacy, and de-threaten movement. And language matters. Hopefully IMade that point very clearly to you guys so that you were very aware of the words you use the narratives that you provide your patients in practice. And then if we can get that back up, that would be ideal. There's just a few references that you guys that I would recommend. For you guys, one is reference for clinicians. I consider it essential reading for anyone who is in primary care. It is the Lancet Low Back Pain series. It's two articles published in spring of 2018. It's just Lancet.com slash series slash low back pain. But like state-of-the-art top-notch, that they formed the structure for our talks, highest recommendation, and then resources for patients. There are a few, and these are more for persistent or chronic pain. Because again, acute pain, low back pain, there's little we can do to modify it other than staying active. One is a website called tamethebeast.org. And this is a website that is dedicated towards kind of reframing, rethinking persistent pain, and how we can approach that with patients. And then there's also a phone app. It's called curable, CURABELY. And this is effectively like CBT in a phone app for patients with persistent pain. It provides a lot of this education and reinforcement and lessons and stuff like that for people who are working through chronic persistent pain-related issues to educate them on this stuff. So it's called CURABELY. And tamethebeast is the website, Lancet series for clinicians. That's all I have. Thank you guys very much, and happy to takEQuestions.

=== FILE: Dr. Feigenbaum on Low Back Pain at Fort Irwin (Part I) [l9poXGU11ms].txt ===

So, Mike's just introduced first our speakers here. Dr. Jordan Feinbaum on the left and Dr. Austin Baroque in the right. These guys are from a company called Barbell Medicine. And they are something most formalist and subject matter experts when it comes to strength of trening, combining into with medicine, whether from a practical application or from, you know, having more stuff to do research and deciphering the literature. They've written publications for professionals, you need to read articles for professional publications that we as medical providers reference. And they themselves, I think, are one of the most important things they walk to walk, right? They're both left and not literally left, both competitive listeners and the computer. So, you know, they hit it for both the medical side and the, hey, we're actually withers and deepest for a living side as well. Dr. Fai-Mongon on the left is a family practice physician, lives in San Diego. And he started the company Barbell Medicine in 2012. I'm really to address this gap of, you know, hey, how we combine strength trening with current medical practices. And I precise Dr. Barack Himmlerite, he's an internal medicine physician. And he actually currently works in teachers at San Antonio with a military medical center at 4th and he's the Texas. So, additionally, just as you guys know, we have a littlEQuestion and answer box over the last months or months or so, we've collected questions from people coming into the clinics. We're sure we're going to the hospital about, you know, concerns they have. So, after the presentation today, we'd like to feel some of thEQuestions with you guys or any additional questions you have. So, if that being said, Dr. Fai-Mongon will come on up and we'll start with you in my final class. Thank you. Thanks, man. Thank you. All right. Let's get this pulled up. How many in here have done the new ACFC already? Everybody? A lot of people. Okay, cool. Anybody nervous about it? Nobody. That was good. All right, cool. We're done. Okay, so what we're going to talk about, what I'm going to talk about today is low back pain. What it is, why it happens and what we can do about it to reduce the risk of it, to manage it, really try to build some stuff efficacy and your own personal knowledge base about how this applies to your life. So, just to give you an example of the scope, the size of this problem. This is the leading cause of disability in almost all high-income countries, including United States. It affects about 540 million people worldwide. The army actually has the highest incidence of low back pain amongst all military branches. So, Marines with the lowest, they're like the average, and the army has about double the incidence. We don't know why. Cut to the chase. I don't know why. That being said, from 2010 to 2014, there are about 6 million doctors visits for low back pain, for active duty military, about over 6 million. Okay. Of those over 6 million doctors visits, 91% of them are diagnosed as non-specific low back pain. So, about 91% of them, where diagnosis and non-specific low back pain, we'll talk about what that actually is, how about a place to you, and what we can do about it. But first we have to back up, what is pain? I know I'm not going to ask for a show of hand, how many of you have had pain, I assume it's everyone, it's part of the human existence. Okay. But what is it? The way I like to describe it is that pain is an experience. It's an experience that drives behavioral changes or actions in order to protect us from something that we think is threatening, something we perceive as a threat. So, anything that increases that threat, so fear, anxiety, learned experiences, people around you, increases the perception of pain. An interesting story happened while I was trening at a gym, about two years ago, there was a pull-up bar, and a woman was doing toes to bar up there, so she's runninGHer toes all the way up to the bar. She fell off, so about a 10-foot drop, landed right on her back. You walk or you are right, and then she started crying, and she started holdinGHer back, and she refused to get up on her own after that. She had to go to the emergency room, where she was diagnosed with absolutely nothing. She went home. It doesn't mean that her experience of pain wasn't real, or that it was quote unquote all in her head. That was a real experience. She really felt the pain, but that was influenced by outside things outside of just biological and anatomical inputs. The people descending upon her and askinGHer, are you okay? Oh my gosh, lay down, I'm going to go to a webinar, what do you have? Oh my gosh, you might have fractured three vertebra. That sounds bad. Or a disc's secustration. What does that? I don't know, but it's the long word. It's probably bad. Probably didn't help her. Anything that increases that threat has a potential to influence or increase pain. So if it's not understanding what something means, having fear anxiety about it, or somebody previously close to you had the same thing, and they had a bad outcome. My dad had low back pain for 30 years. He would stay on the couch, for example. It's a learned response. One of the biggest take home points here is that pain is not attributed to just one thing. Rather, it is a combination of different things that are going on. So one, what's going on in your body from a biological or anatomical standpoint? I'm not going to tell you that what's going on inside your body has no influence on pain, but that's just one aspect of it. It's just one aspect. So what's going on biologically or anatomically? Second, psychologically. What's going on with your mood? Your thoughts, your feelings, your knowledge base of the experience that's happening. That can influence this perception of threat. And also socially, people around you. The environment, your education level. All of these things can inspire combined together to kind of generate this pain experience, or influence if you even have a pain experience in the beginning. To kind of make this more clear, I'd like to use this analogy to hunger. Hunger is another experience that drives behavioral change to protect us from starving. There are many different inputs. Some of these, you guys can probably relate to. So biological inputs for sure. Different hormones or metabolic signals can influence us to go seek food to eat. But how many of you have been upset or anxious and not felt like eating or have the alternative response where you over ate, because you felt sad. Maybe turn all the gray anatomy. Ice cream. Just me, okay. Alternatively, how many of you have been so busy right at you've missed multiple meals. And then you look at your watch, you look at your phone and say, oh gosh, I'm hungry now because you see what time it is. Or you weren't very hungry and a bunch of people around you started eating or you went to an event where everybody else was eating and you're like, oh, I should eat. I'm hungry now. Social inputs into your experience of hunger. So again, it's not to say that these things are all just made up or they're not real. These are real experiences. Hunger and pain are both real experiences. They're just multiple inputs that shape that experience. So in both cases, these experiences are not from aromasingle thing. There's not a hunger generator in the brain, just one area that says, hey, be hungry now. Just like there's no pain generator, one area of the body that's ant hip, you're in pain now. Rather, these are experiences that come from a combination of different inputs. And they're both normal experiences in life. We wouldn't want you to live a life free from pain. People who have the disorder, this congenital pain and sensitivity syndrome, they tend to die early in childhood. From burns or traumas or other diseases. They just can't sense it. You wouldn't want to live a life free from pain. No more that you'd like to live a life free from hunger. You kind of want to be a little hungry, Thanksgiving just happen, sit down, crush some food, satisfying. To never have that feeling again. Man, wouldn't wish that about anybody. So we don't want you to live this or to expect even to have a pain free life after you leave this talk. Or Dr. Barackie's talk later on or after thEQ&A. Rather, what we'd like to do, we'd like to do is to help the medical staff here to help you better understand what pain is, where it comes from. So it allows you to be to self-manage, to be self-sufficient. So you can figure out what to do to not only manage your own pain when you have it in data to life because you're going to have it. But also how to reduce the risk of having pain that interferes with your life. And also to pass the ACF to you. So let's move on. Let's talk about what low-back pain is specifically. I don't have to tell you guys where your low-back is. You guys all know where that is. But low-back pain itself is very, very common. Lifetime risk for this for adults is about 85%. So most people in here will have or have had low-back pain. And again, since we're on Army Base, you guys have almost double the risk of the Marines and you have the highest highest risk of all military ranges. Again, not sure why that is, but low-back pain is very, very common. 85% of all adults will have low-back pain in the life. In general, about 90% of this is called non-specific, where his diagnosis is non-specific low-back pain. And this isn't really a term that's used to, this is a term just for diagnostics, okay, to like code it medically. But it's not meant to minimize the experience of the person. So say, oh, it's just non-specific and brush it off. Rather, appropriately refers to the fact that there isn't aromasingular specific cause for this pain. It's not due to a herniated disc. It's not due to a torn ligament or other anatomical issue. It's just non-specific. Pain that in this case, in the vast majority of all low-back pain is not due to any specific underlying cause, no specific pain generator. The idea that it is due to something. I got to find that one thing that pain generator is an oversimplification of the pain experience we talked about this earlier. It's not just one thing. There are multiple inputs. We, the fancy way of talking about this oversimplification is by calling it the bio-medical model of disease. It's a fancy way of saying that a symptom, low-back pain in this case, has aromasingle underlying cause. And the thought process behind that is that fixing or removing the underlying cause would fix the problem. Remove the pain in this case. Well, the sounds logical in theory. It doesn't really work and can actually make the person's pain get worse, lasts longer and re-accommer often. And I'll explain that. So again, most low-back pain is not due to an anatomical cause in isolation. So I know you're thinking, you're like, what about herniated discs or disc problems? So did herniated discs account for maybe about 2% to 5% of all low-back pain? 2% to 5%. Not a high percentage shot there. So you're like, it's my disc, it's probably not. Based on statistics. Many of the common things in fact, that are said to cause low-back pain are commonly found in folks with no symptoms at all. We call them asymptomatic individuals because they have no symptoms. So for example, a bulging disc or herniated disc is found in about 50% to 70% of individuals with no back pain symptoms aged 40 to 49. 50 to 70% of them will have at least one bulging or herniated disc on some sort of medical imaging, like an MRI. And they have no symptoms. The joints that connect adjacent vertebra are called the fescent joints. And sometimes if you get imaging, like an x-ray or an MRI or a CT, you might see in there some wording that says, oh degenerative fescent joint. This occurs about 30% of asymptomatic 50 year olds. As people get older, the percentage goes up higher and higher. And these things, herniated discs, bulging discs, degenerative fescent joints, all these sort of things are not reliably found in people with low back pain, which is why we use the diagnosis non-specific low back pain. It's not specific to any one thing. Certainly not just an anatomical thing. Side note, just here. Using the word degenerative suggests there's something wrong or defective about the structure or first two. So if we're talking about degenerative fescent joint, oh there's something wrong. This is bad. What's been put forth instead of using the term degenerative is to use the term age related, which is true. If we see more and more of this degenerative fescent joint finding on stuff like x-rays, as people age, it's really age related, especially if it's generally found in asymptomatic individuals and doesn't really correlate well to pain. Imagine if you went to the doctor and you had wrinkles and they called this degenerative skin disease. All right, went to the doctor and he said, hey, what's going on up here, if I can bomb? I guess it's degenerative hair disease. Like, you know what I'm going to tell you. The problem when you are talking about pain, however, is if you tell somebody that they have a degenerative disease of a joint or structure, you've told them, hey, this is fragile. This deserves extra attention, extra care. But also I need you to go exercise. Oh, by the way, there's this new ACFT that you're going to have to do in you have degenerative disc disease or degenerative fescent disease. You're like, well, doc, that doesn't make sense. You just told me that I'm fragile that these structures deserve extra attention, that I'm not whole and now you want me to go stress these structures to go tren. That doesn't make sense. So as providers, we try to not use those terms and use either age related or other non-medical terms where people don't build these harmful, potential narratives. You guys can do these, you can use similar sort of strategies amongst yourselves, telling somebody or thinking that you have a degenerative disc disease is not an accurate way to think about it. It's just age related and it's unlikely to be the source of your pain. For example, if you've been diagnosed with that, also kind of frees you from thinking, well, I've got this degenerative disc disease and so I can't do anything about it because it's degenerative. I'm fragile. We would prefer that you think that yourself's sufficient. You're resilient. IMean, there's all these motivational posters up here too, right? So, so, talk about what pain is, what low-back pain is, what it's not. We haven't really talked about the actual causes of low-back pain, right? What's the magic bullet here? What are the causes for the majority of low-back pain? It should be clear by now that there is no one specific cause for low-back pain. Again, very common diagnosis, 85% of the world adults are going to have low-back pain sometime in their life. 90% of it is non-specific. There's no one cause for this. It's not anatomical. There's no pain generator. Rather, there are many different factors that produce this pain experience. There, because there are biological, psychological, and social inputs into this pain experience for low-back pain, we call this the biocyte social model. That's the kind of next step up from the biomedical model. And this is the current view of pain in the medical role. So, from a biological standpoint, we're going through all of these. From a biological standpoint, the workload that an individual is exposed to plays role, such as the amount of exercise or occupational activity that they have to deal with. If you have a person who's never rocked, never lifted, never done any sort of trening before at all. They come to basic trening and get thrown into all of this. They now their exercise and their lifting weights in the gym. They're doing PT and they're doing a bunch of extra activity. That is a new challenge for them that they have not adequately prepared for. Might they experience pain? Maybe, effectively, they're not prepared for their orders that they've been given. So, how would we reduce the risk of them developing pain from this mismatch? Well, we would have started trening earlier. We would have exposed that person earlier and gradually increased the stress over time. One thing that can generate pain is having this sort of trening load or workload mismatch between what somebody is prepared to do and what they are asked to do. So, that can be problematic. This is huge problem in the United States. Also, as 80 percent of the United States does not actually meet the current exercise guidelines, which does involve twice weekly resistance trening. Just to show it hands, you guys don't look around. So, we're not using shame here. How many people actually lift weights twice a week or more? Oh, this is good. I'm so happy. Those of you who didn't raise your hand, you know, just saying. So, get a good in there and lift some weights. From a psychological and from psychological and social standpoint, we also have a very big problem. There are learned threats from family members or close friends who have had low back pain or who have had medical providers tell them like, hey, one thing that can cause low back pain would be a herniated disc or degenerative facet joint, or something else. And so, the first time that you experience low back pain, that person that close friend or family member says, oh, it's called your disc. Like, well, I wasn't even thinking about that it was related to my disc before, but now I am. This is a whole, this is a social phenomena. It particularly united states. We're we're thinking there's something boom anatomical that's causing this low back pain and it's been handed down. It's in all of the occupational safety data stuff, right? You see a person trying to lift a box off the ground one way, they're bent over, they're using their back and that's dangerous, right? There's like pain like cartoon pain graphics there and they're, oh, lift with your legs. Don't stress your back. Your back is fragile. If you're on social media, you can see people pretending to lift with a rounded back and then a mushroom cloud appears over their back. These are harmful narratives and they're pervasive. They see it into our subconscious as a society where we think our backs are very fragile. We can damage them very easily. We need to be careful. We only get one spine. With all this in my what should we do? Well, the first thing is good news, even though low back pain super common, right, 8% of adults are going to have it. The most of these cases resolve on their own abouT4 to six weeks. Four to six weeks, most of them resolve on their own. I understand that the experience, particularly the first few days of having low back pain, you think this is the worst thing I've ever experienced, it's never going to end. I've been there. However, that sort of catastrophic thinking actually makes it worse. If you know now, you've been inculcated that it's going to end in four to six weeks on average, you're already set up for more success than you were before walking into this presentation. Here's the other thing. I know what you're saying. I know what you're thinking. You're like, all right, I get it. You're saying it pains all this touchy feeling emotional stuff. But what if it is a good disk issue? What if I legitimately herniated a disk? I was doing the new ACFT, the Trap Bar Deadlift test and I've herniated a disk at shot across the room. What now, Dr? Good news is, even if it was a disk issue, which again, is only responsible for about two to five percent of low back pain. Most disk issues tend to resolve spontaneously on their own, meaning the herniation regresses on its own. The worst the herniation is the higher percentage chance that it's going to resolve on its own. So it's called disk sequestration, it's a part of the fragment that's actually been ejected from the disk. It's floating around on its own as a 96% chance, 96% chance of spontaneously regressing on its own. Without you doing anything other than like living. Good news, right? So let's talk about some other things that people commonly ask for because they think it's going to make them better. People say, Doc, look, got this pain. I need an x-ray. Need to make sure it's not something serious. Well, the first thing is imaging doesn't show pain. It only shows bony things if we're talking about x-rays or additional non-bony things if we're talking about advanced imaging like MRIs and CTs. So it doesn't show pain. The current recommendations are not actually getting x-ray until after six weeks. Unless there's a suspicion of something more serious like a cancer or an infection. Handful of other things, thick that you can, the doctor will be able to pick up on exam, which makes sense. So that six week mark, again, most people's low-back pain should have resolved four to six weeks. All right, so after that, then you might be thinking, if you're the medical provider, hey, maybe IMissed something. X-ray at that point might be something to do. The reason why we don't do it in the first six weeks, one, it doesn't change what we do. Getting an x-ray doesn't say, ooh, you need to do exactly this. Doesn't show pain. You might find something that's incidental that's completely normal, just a normal variation of anatomy. But subjects of person to an more extensive work up, like getting an MRI or getting a CT. Those who get an MRI for low-back pain tend to do the same as those who don't, or even worse, in some cases, it's more incidents of disability. Also, MRI doesn't actually do a great job at finding issues. When you have different radiologists looking at the same images, they'll find different things and not tend to disagree with each other about what they actually find because we're humans, and we do that. So a favorite study, and I was really trying to not quote any single study in this particular lecture, but this is my favorite study. They sent this little lady to 10 different radiologists, MRI centers, each other own different radiologists. It's the same spine, they're taking a picture of the same spine, and these radiologists, the all similar levels of trening are interpreting this, and they didn't agree on any one single finding. There were 50 different findings that they reported across these 10 different MRI centers. They didn't not one single one was repeated across all 10, and they found a ton of false positives, meaning they identified stuff that wasn't there. I know what we're thinking that MRI is a school standard, we need it, it's going to help us, but in the case of low-back pain, probably not. The common thread is that the military doesn't want to spend the money. The tight ones. It just really doesn't help in this case, and my experience with military medicine, I did two rotations at Navy Portsmouth Hospital, a psychrotation and emergency medicine, rotation. They tend to spend more money on medicine. They're like, ap, it's the military, they'll pay for this, order all the tests. Thing is it just doesn't really help, and it may in fact hurt you here. So think about it, if you have low-back pain as an adult, just started a week ago, you finally go to see the doctor because you're worried, which is fine, this is normal. And they say, you know what, let's get an MRI. Get an MRI and it shows three herniated discs, which you didn't know that you heard had before. If you hadn't come to this presentation, you might be thinking, boom, there it is. Not the song, which is won't, there it is. This is boom, there it is. Three herniated discs. That's what's caused my pain. I will be in pain until these discs reabsorb, or until I have surgery, or until these discs spontaneously regress, which is not the case. Again, many asymptomatic individuals, 50 to 70 percent of those ages 40 to 49, will have herniated disc on MRI and be asymptomatic. I know this because during my medical residency, I got an MRI and it showed three herniated discs and I didn't even have back pain. That's not why I got the MRI. Anyway, yeah, that was a traumatic experience. I still tried to think about it anymore. So advanced imaging, we probably wouldn't recommend. We probably wouldn't push forward. Hopefully you guys are on board with that. Next thing people say, all right, what about meds? Doc, no imaging? You work for big pharma. What meds should I take? Unfortunately, we don't have a lot of good solutions here from a medication standpoint. So over the counter medications like Tylenol and ibutamoren have either no evidence that they help. In low back pain, for Tylenol, does not help, would not recommend or very little benefit. ibutamoren would not recommend. And that's again, people, it kind of makes sense because back pain, particularly the majority of this back pain that people experienced, is not inflammatory. So people say, yeah, but I take ibutamoren when I have low back pain or a little back tweak, it makes me feel better. Why? It's like, well, it's hard to separate out the placebo effect from what's really happening. You're taking a medication. There's a ritual there. There's an expectation that you're going to get better. And so you feel a little better sometimes. That being said, when it's actually widely studied, not a lot of good evidence there. Same thing, prescription medications like steroids, like doc, I want an injection, or I want to take a prednisone. I took that once, maybe feel great. No really good evidence that this actually have any benefit here. Opioids, very little benefit in chronic low back pain. So last thing, more than six weeks, but harmful in long term. You guys have been keeping up with the news. You know that to be the case. So this should all make sense to you that just taking a medication probably doesn't do a great job in addressing low back pain due to the multifactorial nature of the pain experience. If it was just a biological cause, then sure, maybe medications would be more efficacious. They'd work better. But because there are biological, psychological, social, environmental inputs all to this sort of pain experience, it makes sense that medications not a magic bullet. Okay. Similarly, if we're looking for this one cause of pain, the pain generator, we're going to be on a wild goose hunt. And we may miss a tribute to the pain experience to a twud, which is a time wasted on useless detail. We might look at imaging and say, oh, I have the set joint degeneration. That's what's causing this. And until I get that fixed, I'll never be whole. I'll never not have low back pain. Could hold you back in a long term. Okay. So since there are biological and psychological inputs that drive this pain experience, those are the targets we should actually address. So let's talk about those. Biological, let's talk about exercise. So I started this earlier on saying that one of the reasons why people, one of the biological causes where people can have this most common type of low back pain is when the trening stress or work low outstrips what somebody has prepared for. It's increases too quickly and too much. So preparing for the demands via trening that gradually increases over time is how we would address this. So we would start people with something that they can tolerate today right now. And then gradually increase that stress over time. I know this is just shocking. But this is also how we would start treating this type of low back pain. So let's say somebody tried the new trap-bar deadlift test. And they said that they had back pain after that. That's a traumatic experience. They know they have to do this test to keep their job. Okay. And they did it once and then they had back pain afterwards. So like, look, I did the deadlift and then now my back hurts. And now you're telling me how to do it again anyway. So what we do in that situation were one, one biological cause for somebody who had back pain after that is if they've never deadlifted before. And now you put them into a competitive or testing situation. It's probably not the best way to do it. What we would rather have them do is be exposed to it under less challenging less challenging situation and gradually work them up to the test they're going to have to do. That's trening over a longer period of time. That might mean starting with just the empty bar. In this case, after somebody already has pain, what we want to do is desensitize them. We want to reduce the threat. So they even see the trap bar. They say, look, no, I can't. They have PTSD. What I'd love to get them to do is do a trap bar deadlift from a reduced range of motion, maybe from a higher platform, right? Or if they were previously doing it with weight on the bar, do it with just the empty bar. Something where they could do the movement as close as possible to the movement that they're going to be asked to do, but that they're able to tolerate. We're going to try to desensitize them, reduce the threat, reduce the fear around that. Now, if they won't do it at all, we'll do something else. That's similar. We'll gradually have to move farther and farther away from what they need to prepare for, but we'd like to do what we'd like to do ideally is if somebody said, look, I hurt my back in the trap bar deadlift, what do you recommend I do? I think you should do the trap bar deadlift again. But at a more manageable load, whether that's total weight, total reps, sets, et cetera, the whole trening load needs to be appropriate for what you can handle right now. And that got to be has to be gradually built up over time. Getting stronger over time is going to help the individual or you to be more tolerant of different stresses, particularly those around physical activity. It also helps build self-efficacy. If someone comes into me and says, I've back pain, I did it while I was doing the trap bar deadlift, for my new on-the-fysical fitness test. What do you recommend that I do? I say, look, I think you know, I'd ask them, what was your previous exercise history? And get that information and I'd say, I think you need to do the trap bar deadlift, in addition to these other exercises to get you fit fit for duty. And here's how I would do that. And you need to be in charge of this. Get the process of going through this sort of trening-based rehabilitation build self-efficacy. You're the one who's responsible to get better. You don't need to come see me multiple times a week for an adjustment, for a massage, for a pep talk. Rather, I want to give you the power to manage this on your own. The last part of this with respect to exercise is a term we call auto-regulation, which is a fancy way of saying adjusting things based on the amount of resources that you have. So imagine a situation where you're super, you're sleep deprived, or you're really sad, or really upset, or you're really hungry, or something that ultimately puts you not at your best. Relationships stress, occupational stress, something like that. And it's really bad. And you're not able to perform up to your best. You're not able to tolerate as much trening stress as you would when everything's going your way. So our recommendation would be instead of just pushing through it because pain don't hurt and pain is weakness leaving the body is to have a sort of stop gap in place where you don't end up pushing too far too quickly. So easy ways to do this. Most of your trening sessions that you're doing at the gym, because all of you are now going to be engaging in your resistance trening. Most of your trening sessions, if you were going to rate how hard they were, how fatigued you were at the end of the trening session, should be about six to eight on a scale of one to ten. If at the end of every trening session you're like that was a ten, I've never been more tired than this after exercise. This is it. That's probably too much for you. It's probably too much. On the other hand, if it's a two, you're like, I'm fine. It's probably not enough to encourage change. Six to eight's kind of that sweet spot. So during periods of high stress right from whatever reason, keeping it in that ballpark is going to kind of keep you safe from a trening perspective. Your unlike you're not going to be able to ideally push yourself into that, hey, I did too much for the available for what I was prepared for. So that's from an exercise standpoint, what should we do? From a psychosocial standpoint, the first thing we can do, and what we're trying to do right now is education. But what pain is, why people have pain? There's no pain generator. We talked about that. Pain doesn't necessarily equal harm. Like harm to the tissue or tissue damage. If you know anybody who's been to war and maybe still has shrapnel in their body, that's the definition of tissue damage. And they may or may not have pain from that, for example. And during this educational period, we'd also like to give you tools so that you can self-manage, whether that's exercise advice, whether that's managing your trening, whether that's new information about just straight up what doesn't cause pain, all of these things can be helpful. So that can be super useful. And then finally, from a social standpoint, I'd really like to encourage all of us, everybody in this room, to watch our words and actions, what we say to each other and how we act towards each other with respect to pain. So if you happen to see a woman or a man fall off a pull-up structure onto the ground, get up and walk away just fine, just go on living your life. You don't need to go over and ask them if they have back pain now, tell them to sit down and then go on WebMD. They're probably going to be fine. If you have low back pain, we would highly encourage you to stay calm, to not catastrophize it and say, oh, this is probably something traumatic, because it's probably not. And then to try to talk yourself into self-managing. If you need a professional counsel, we'd like you to see a health care provider who's trened up on this stuff. And then when we're talking to friends about what causes pain. Somebody says, oh, yeah, it's my bad disk. That's what's causing the pain. If you feel comfortable talking to them about this stuff, you might try to engage in a conversation where you can provide them more information. If it's your Uber driver, maybe you say, oh, yeah, that's wild. And then don't say anything else. It's a long drive from here to bar still as I found out yesterday. All right. So let's wrap this up with some take-home messages. Take-home's here. Pain is an experience that we have in order to try to protect ourselves from our perceived threat. The threat is a combination of many different factors. It's not just one thing. Anything that increases that threat is going to increase, has the likelihood of increasing our pain. So whether that's fear, whether that's not knowing what's going on. All right. Or learned experience. All of those things can increase pain. Most well-back pain is not due to something serious like a fracture, mass, or infection. Most of it resolves in four to six weeks on its own. We covered, I think, in some pretty good detail that it's mostly not, it's most likely not related to some anatomical issue like a disc, the set joint or anything like that. To treat and reduce the risk of low back pain, we need to exercise and build tolerance and reduce sensitivity. Motion is lotion. So if you're having low back pain, the worst thing you can do is be sedentary, not exercise. The best thing you could do is try to do an exercise that's very similar to what you were doing when you got hurt. Tensual with reduced load. Potentially with the reduced range of motion. Potentially with an altered tempo. The idea is again, not to be scared of it and to desensitize you to to that exercise, to that motion. It's all about violation expectation in that instance, meaning that you expect yourself to have pain when you bend over, for example, if you hurt yourself deadlifting. Well, we'd like to prove to you that that's not always going to be the case. And if we can violate that expectation, we can put you on this path towards improving self-efficacy and you'd be able to self-manage this on your own. And then finally, ideally, you would all be part of a social change revolution to change the way that we all think and talk about back pain and society. Because we can't do this on our own. There's only two of us, but as we get to kind of spread this message to folks, the idea is that this becomes less and less of a problem. I thank you for your time, Luke and I now.

=== FILE: Dr. Sohee Carpenter on Circuits vs. Traditional Lifting, New Research, and Coaching Her Mom [JsaYkeDJdTg].txt ===

 aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop on the podcast in the spring of 2021. She's obtained her PhD in sports science from the Auckland University of Technology. It is my pleasure to welcome back Dr. Carpenter to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where today we'll cover the research she did during her PhD program and her long-term experience with training her mom. Zoe, Dr. Carpenter, what's going on? That's me, I guess. I didn't realize it had been that many years since my last appearance. Honestly, it doesn't feel like that long ago. Yeah, I think you came to our New York seminar, so I think that like... Yeah, even that was, what was that, like two years ago already? Yeah, time flight, yeah. That's wild, yeah. Yep, so we'll just do this quarterly. We'll have a quadrennial between your appearances just to catch up on life. Yeah, but I think the last time I was on, I want to say I was still in the beginning stages of my PhD, and then I've obviously since gone to start and finish data collection and then finish writing my thesis and all that stuff. And then we moved, yeah, moved. We're still in California, but moved from LA out to Orange County. It's still easier to say we're in LA because, you know, we're like an hour away, whatever, but now we've got a house. Yeah, and you've been a speaker at many, yeah, international conferences. You're like an Adidas ambassador. Oh, it's been really fun. It's been really fun. So besides killing it, anything else going on? I mean, there's lots of things. I don't even know where to, yeah, lots of things, but like how much do you want to know? Yeah, I wish I would show you up. Yeah, we got some projects, some of them we're not ready to talk about yet, but they'll come to light soon. But basically we're still, I'm still doing the fitness career thing. I still love what I do. Yeah. Well, she's an excellent follow on all social platforms. I'll also link to our previous podcast if you want to get the origin story. But we'll hop right in. I was excited. I saw your paper that you obviously you'd link to and then pulled the whole paper. So how did you- That was a project. Yeah. How did you end up picking this topic? We'll cover the details about it, but it's on circuit training versus traditional resistance training. So how did you end up picking this topic? Was it chosen for you or were you like- No. So this was, okay. So specifically it's high intensity circuit training, high intensity. And that part is really important because my thesis is on resistance training in women specifically. And I found that when you talk about circuit training amongst the general population, most women, when they're like, oh, I do Barry's Bootcamp or Orange Theory or this and that popular. Exactly. A lot of the circuit training that they do, I found that they don't actually push their sets as hard as they could from a proximity to failure standpoint. And so I was thinking, okay, when you actually match the effort, what are the results between strength, body comp, all that stuff, hypertrophy, blah, blah, blah in women. And that question was something that I actually want to investigate since well before. My PhD, this is back when like years ago, I was living in San Diego still like 2017, 2018 timeframe, because obviously from all my years of working with women, we found that time is a very common barrier to regular exercise. And I think a lot of people can relate to this. And of course we know that circuit training is more time efficient. You'd get your workout done a lot faster. So I thought, okay, well, personally, I have a preference for the traditional strength training workouts where you do one set at a time and you rest for longer in between sets. I don't usually enjoy the circuit nature of the back-to-back exercises with short rest periods, but a lot of women do, and that's fine. But we didn't really have a lot of research at the time to say, well, based on these two popular modalities, if you want to have these results, this is the modality you should employ. If you want to have these other results, this is the other modality you should employ. And so I was thinking, okay, why don't we, how cool would it be if I actually set up a study to investigate exactly that? So that's kind of how it happened. And then I started my PhD. And then of course you think you're like, oh, I have this one question. I'm going to dive right in. No, it took like three, four years before I was even able to start data collection for that. And setting up the study design and getting that ethics approved and everything took like a year, you know, everything takes so much longer. So, you know, thankfully I was able to collect the data, answer my question, which was really cool. And even publishing a paper was so much work, so much work. So was obviously very excited. I got the news about that publication, that paper being accepted for publication this past April or so. I think it was actually the same, I think it was the same morning I was defending my thesis actually. So it was a pretty exciting day. Yeah. Like that morning I got the news and then like a few hours later I defended my thesis successfully, blah, blah, blah. So it was a big day. And then, and then it was like a couple months later it was actually published, but the timeline for that and the amount of work involved, honestly, it's made me have so much more respect for, for researchers who publish all the time, but also you become a lot more understanding of study design limitations and things like that. When you're like, oh, well now it makes sense why you couldn't do X, Y, Z, because logistically it's actually so much harder. Or if you were to try to implement, make these, enforce these requirements on your participants, you would have had one third of the people finishing the study, you know, things like that. So it was a big learning experience, but yeah, the biggest finding was one, unsurprisingly, the high intensity circuit training. So they did the same exercises, the same sets and reps in both, yeah, in both conditions. Don't, don't give away the plot. We gotta, we, yeah. Oh, okay. Okay. Don't go into the findings. Okay. Anyway, yes, it's published. It's very cool. I think it's great. It's great news for women all around. Yeah, no, I was, uh, yeah. When I read the title, I go, Ooh, this is interesting. Uh, mainly because, and to your point earlier, circuit training is popular, uh, not, not only just commercially, but also again, to your point for people to save time, they're like, Oh, well, I'll just minimize my rest periods. I'll do these exercises. Yes. And it's not that that's problematic on its face, but because that layout, that structure tends to result in a number of things. One, people use lighter weights. Two, people tend to stay further away from failure. Three, exercise selection often, uh, varies, you know, and so it just becomes a much different comparator to traditional resistance training. So I was really impressed with how you laid this out. You effectively matched everything except for people doing it back to back or were they resting? So yeah, the title of the paper, and I've linked it in the show notes below, it's open. You can get it on research gate. Uh, you can read the whole thing. It's titled effects of high intensity circuit versus traditional strength training on physiological responses in trained women. It's in the European journal of sports science. I see some friends on there as well. Got Dr. Eric Helms. We got Rachel, uh, how do you say, how do you say your last, her last name? Okay. It's exactly how it looked. Yeah. She's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. You star studded line up there. And so, yeah, as you mentioned, you took women, these are trained women and you randomize them into two groups. They were going to do circuit training or traditional resistance training three times a week, eight weeks. They did the same exact exercises. They used same relative loads. So it wasn't like, oh, if you're doing circuit training, you're doing this way lighter. No, it was all relative to their strength and how close to failure they were pushing. And yeah. So lifting the same amount of weight, the same reps in reserve, uh, by and large, in an 18 to 15 rep or eight to 15 rep range, uh, except for, yeah, one did them as a circuit and the other did them traditionally. And traditionally in this case, okay, you do a set rest three minutes or whatever. Correct. And yeah. So we really tried to control for as many variables as we realistically could. Um, and that was, that was the outcome. Yeah. So just on it before you even did went into data collection and, and got the data to look at, was your hypothesis, like, look, if they're lifting the same weights for about the same training load, like reps and, and total sets and stuff, just the rest periods between the specific exercises are different. Was your hypothesis, like, we think it's going to be about the same. Um, I want to say, I have to go back and read the paper. It's been so long since I wrote the paper. And now that I know the results, it's like, of course you look back and you're like, oh, of course, of course you predicted. I want to say, because there was, there was at least one similar study done in men where it was high intensity circuit training versus traditional circuit training. And they, they did find that strength of body comp was similar between the groups. So I want to say we were, we predicted at least for like, at least for the body comp, similar, uh, changes, but I'm not sure. I have to look back. I think the strength gains we predicted, maybe this traditional strength training group might have better strength gains. Yeah. So it's one or the other. Um, but I mean, we weren't, we weren't completely surprised by the results. Realistically. Having the benefit of recently rereading your paper, I believe, and again, when you're, when you guys are listening to this, go and read the paper, which I encourage you to do, because it's well-written and there's a lot of background information that would, even if you're not particularly interested in this specific question, all of the background information on training and, and, and, and predicted outcomes is super useful as a, as a health and fitness professional. But, uh, I believe that the thing was like, well, look, we think if we're lifting the same load, same relative, you know, same training load, proximity to failure of strength gains, hyper-perfect should be similar, but maybe there's a metabolic or like fat burn advantage potentially to the height, to the circuit training. Cause you're like, your heart rate's higher. Yeah. So, okay. Here's my first question before we, uh, you know, kind of give away some of the results, but we'll, we'll cover them in more detail. Yeah. One thing I didn't see in there, and this might just be, cause I'm getting older and just, I bypassed it. What was the difference in total time spent training per session? Yeah. Uh, so I think we may be alluded to it a couple of times. The reason why we were not able to run statistical analysis on that was that we weren't meticulously tracking their exact duration, which obviously in hindsight, you look when you're like, why am I, why am I thinking of doing that? So what we could say was approximately, uh, the high, high intensity circuit training group were finished with their session in approximately like 50 to 55 minutes from including the warmup, like dynamic warmup, all that stuff from beginning to end. Whereas the traditional strength training group close to closer to like 70, 75 minutes. And you're like, okay, that's only like 20, 25 minutes. That adds up a lot throughout the week. That's a lot of time. That's a big difference. And, um, so to me that was pretty significant. Um, so, and of course too, like even 50 minutes, you can do a shorter circuit training workout. You can do 30 minutes and get a lot done still. Totally. Um, but for us with, yeah. Like factoring in, okay, you gotta go to a gym. Theoretically, if somebody did have to do that, change clothes, rechange, drive home, travel to whatever, those minutes add up and could be the difference maker between, oh, this person can participate and adhere to a particular, you know, exercise program versus they're not even gonna try. If they're like, look, I got 80 minutes plus travel time, plus changing, plus whatever. Right. And how many people think that in their heads, they're like, oh, I don't have a full hour or whatever to dedicate. I'm not even gonna bother trying, but also, yeah. And I think obviously too, with the exercise, I think that all the time, and I have to remind myself any like 20 minutes is still worth doing 30 minutes is still worth doing. Any month. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and so that's kind of a message that I will try to remind people of all the time. But, um, you know, if, if you look at the exercise selection, am I allowed to talk about that right now? So we did, we did use obviously, you know, the, the findings should be able to be applied to different program designs, like different exercise selection. But of course, with the caveat that exercise selection and exercise order does matter. And if you see like the first circuit, the first three exercise circuit was, uh, like press, flat dumbbell bench press and trap bar deadlift. And we really try to, uh, first we did like, you know, upper, lower, lower, upper, upper, alternating lower upper exercises, which was great. And then we also tried to ensure that there was like minimal overlap between the muscles worked in back-to-back exercises as much as possible, uh, which I think did make a difference in terms of, um, the performance that people, you know, their, their performance in, in the working sets throughout the training design. So I would say, you know, if, if you have a good trainer, or if you know how to write a sound training program with the right exercise order, I think the results can be applicable to, like, let's say you only had several pairs of dumbbells. You can, you can swap them out for dumbbell variations and probably get similar results again, as long as you're pushing close to failure. That's what I think. Yeah. That was one of the, the probably most, uh, germane methodology things that you guys did is that really, which what they did for the, the high intensity circuit training group, what to basically try sets or giant sets, the three exercises you do back to back to back, but there was minimal overlap in one exercise to the next. So you went from left press to dumbbell bench. And so we would classically call that like an alternate peripheral type superset, for example. And then you did trap bar deadlifts after the dumbbell bench, which again, another alternate peripheral, um, uh, type superset. Now comparatively you could have done all upper together. So like dumbbell bench, uh, you know, another, uh, like shoulder press theoretically, if you were doing something like that and then chest flies, you didn't include those exercises in your thing. But if you did agonist, agonist, agonist, that would be a completely different setup than this alternate peripheral kind of setup. Yeah. And we, you know, we obviously intentionally avoided that. I think the way that we did it was the right way to do things. And if I think if your goal is to, uh, so to speak, optimize strength and body comp and all those variables, it probably would be beneficial, uh, in general to alternate muscle groups as much as you can. Yeah. When I program for folks and I'm doing like a full body workout or even just a body like region, like an upper lower split, I tend to program either agonist antagonist or alternate peripheral such that if somebody did want a superset, they'd have that option with minimal quote interference between the exercises. And I, and I, and this is my understanding of it. And I'd like to get you to comment on it. When you prepare exercises like that, or if you're going to do a back to back, like a superset or back to back to back, like you guys did here, try set something like that giant set. Um, the whole goal is to preserve not only training load. So how much weight you're actually lifting your relative training load, but also volume, like how many reps you're doing per set. And so with this type of setup, you don't really compromise that much compared to like, I did dumbbell bench press, and then I did dumbbell overhead press, and then I did chest flies. And it's like, well, yeah, if you do this back to back to back with no rest periods, you would expect the volume to drop off. You'd expect the person to be able to lift less weight and you would predict, especially based on your findings, which we will get to, I swear you would predict that people to have gain less strength, gain less muscle mass, whatever would be compromised because of the training load being less compared to something like this. Is that, is that correct? You agree? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And actually I was safe. Um, you know, obviously I was there for practically every single training session for all the participants. Oh, they were supervised. You were there the whole time. Oh, every session it was either there were like maybe three sessions or so I wasn't there for, but Rachel was there and you know, we're both, we both have our CSCS. We're both experienced. Um, so, which I think is a very important component because I've, I've heard that not all research studies are properly supervised with qualified trainers, which I think is a huge limitation because how do you know they're right, blipping with good form? How do you know they're lifting with the proper range of motion? How do you know that they're pushing close to failure like they're supposed to? And, and actually a lot of times, um, what was really surprising with almost every single participant, even though they claim to be trained, they all were surprised at how much further away from failure they were lifting in the beginning versus how much more I had them push. And they'd all be like, I had no idea I could push that much. Yeah. Yeah. That was really interesting. The Sohi effect. Yeah. And I'm like, well, this is, this is how your sets should feel. And they're like, I've never lifted before. And a lot of it was, I'm not confident of my form. So I don't want to push myself in case I get hurt. That was a very common, um, you know, the remark that they would make, which I found very, very interesting. So then it, then it made me wonder, okay, how many of these women who train on their own or don't have a, you know, good trainer with them, they think they're pushing close to failure, but they're actually like, you know, four or five reps shy every set all the time. Yeah. So that was very interesting. The coolest part about that being supervised, especially in this case, by qualified coaches, experienced coaches is that whatever you see the programming on in the paper is legitimately, you know, at least to the best of your ability, what the people did compared to it was unsupervised, like, yeah, just go do this program. On the one hand, there's some maybe more real world validity to that. You're like, all right, well, look, if I write a program for somebody and this is how they're going to execute it on average, well, there's, you know, some benefit to that, but the downside is that we don't really know what they were doing. And so if you get a spurious result or series of results, it's like, okay, well, that is an opportunity for error for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And so, yeah, it was really important for us to make sure that every single set we watched and we would actually dictate what loads they would lift. They wouldn't tell us, we would tell them, obviously based on how they told us they were feeling that day, how their warmups felt and how quickly the reps were moving, things like that. But, you know, I've been training clients for long enough now that I can basically eyeball, okay, this is what you're going to do today. And basically by rep one, I can already tell you're probably going to lift this many reps for the set. Yeah. So that was really cool for me to do that. And, but yeah, it was, it was very, very interesting. The number of people who genuinely, they, they, they didn't know what pushing to failure felt like. But also I think there was a bit of a, you know, like probably a bit of a trainer effect where having me there, they're like, oh, if you tell me I can do it, then I know I can do it. I can do it. Yeah. So that was, that was really cool too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. The, she has a very mature coaching eye, which can be, can be useful. Okay. So I would bury the lead enough here. What were the results? You got, again, one group doing for eight weeks, they're doing circuit training, another group doing this, lifting the same relative amount of weight, the same, about the same reps and such and proximity to failure, but with traditional rest periods, what were the results that you guys found? Uh, okay. So we measure strength using three at max testing for all six exercises. The six exercises were, uh, as I mentioned, the first three were leg press, flat, double bench press, trap bar deadlift. Then we had lap pull down, a barbell hip thrust and a standing dumbbell shoulder press. And so we did three at max testing for all participants before and after. And we actually found that both groups had similar strength gains in three at max, um, across. All the exercises as well as, uh, similar gains in muscle after eight weeks. Um, so that was really cool finding. I thought that was very encouraging because if anything that allows us to say based on the findings, uh, I really think that your personal preferences and your time constraints, as well as maybe like logistics of your gym setup, things like that, uh, should be the biggest factors to determine what type of training is best suited for you. And as well, another one thing we mentioned was, of course we didn't study this directly, but maybe you could even employ a combination of where you maybe start off like the first two or three exercises, traditional strength training style, and then you end your workout with a circuit. You can kind of combine them both if you wanted to have a bit more variety. Um, which I, you know, that, that sounds more interesting to me personally, but basically the point is like, you know, you have options as long as we mentioned it so many times throughout the paper, as long as you're pushing close to technical failure, the results will be similar. Yeah. Yeah. One of the things that I've, I've been saying a lot recently to try to, you know, if there's a central paradigm with respect to exercise prescription is that we want people to do as much exercise as they can with the two limiters on that being logistics one. So how much time do you have, you know, resources you have access to, and then two, what's your physiological tolerance for exercise? You obviously, right. That was, so in this particular case, you've effectively determined is my understanding that you could pick either. Yes. So for a person that's got less time circuits, super sets, try set can be an option. If you pay attention to exercise order, if you pay attention to the relative load being lifted and, and approximately to failure, you know, things you would normally pay attention to anyway during traditional sets, or if you have more time and you prefer a different way, you could do that too. There's not like a, you know, the one that rules them all, not a particular advantage outside of preferences. And in this case, maybe how much time you're spending. Right. Right. So like if, for example, I, I were to attend a, I don't know, an F45 class and I was, it was like, okay, it's time efficient, blah, blah, blah. It's great. I would try to make sure personally, okay, am I actually lifting hard enough with each set? Because especially, yes. And the nature of, we know in the nature of group workout classes, you're not going to be supervised as closely with every single set, every single repetition. So it's kind of up to you to build that self-awareness and accountability to be like, okay, I can definitely do more, but also, you know, while keeping yourself safe and all that stuff. So there's that too. I actually had thought about doing like a mock call where I was like the CEO or regional director from F45. And I was like, ring, ring, Dr. Carpenter. Hey, look, we're trying to optimize our, our, our subscribers, our members results. What suggestions would you have for improving our exercise programming or exercise structure? And so the problem obviously is that you don't really know what's going on inside each box, each F45 place. But my understanding and the way I see it anyway, is that there's not a ton of thought with exercise pairing. And then there's not, I don't feel a lot of assurance about like, okay, we're using a heavy enough weight to reach failure or close to failure within, yeah, maybe that eight to 15 rep range, like you guys used, or even just, we can liberalize that and say, all right, somewhere between five and 20 reps, we want to get you within a couple reps of failure. It more seems like we got to station for a minute, do as many reps as you can and just try to sweat a little bit, you know? Yeah. So that is my, I've been to, I think I want to say two classes, F45 classes before. And obviously this is not an offline F45 by any means. It's also been years since I've attended a class. The last time I went, I think of it, I think they were pairing bent over rows with band assisted chin ups. Yeah. And right away, right away, obviously you're working like basically same muscle groups. Second of all, your grip is going to be totally fried to the point where I remember for the chin ups by the end. So we do, you do like multiple sets, right? By the end, I think my last couple of sets, I was using like the fattest band, because I'm like, I don't have the grip strength to do this anymore. And you have me doing this for like 40, 45 seconds straight. That's a lot of reps of band assisted chin ups. So I remember being a little bit taken back by that and a little bit confused by the, by the program design there. Now, of course, maybe things have improved since then in terms of exercise. I don't, I don't really know. I still think that from a exercise enjoyment and social support standpoint, those types of classes can be fantastic. Cause I know, especially for a lot of women, they, you know, my mom, for example, which I know we'll talk about her in a little bit. She's she'll exercise in a social setting. She will not do it by herself. So for someone like her, those kinds of classes are fantastic. Yeah. So you would just, I think they're great. You'd prefer the exercise order to be a little different. And we tweak a couple of things and then small changes to make big improvements. Totally. I think. Yeah. Yeah. And your example, it's like, all right, look, if your grip is fried, right. So you can't really technically do the second exercise to the ability that your laps, your upper back, all this sort of stuff can. And so those muscles, they, yeah, they're receiving less training stimulus. And so if you had to predict a long-term outcome, you'd say, well, I predict that my strength is going to be less on pull-ups and what that sort of a setup, my grip strength, maybe I guess, strength, strength endurance might be higher, but you're ultimately compromised more when you pair the same muscles back to back. Right. But yeah, here's the wrinkle I'll throw in there. Get your take on it before we move on to training, training your parents. Do we think any of that is like from a, not enjoyment's the wrong word, but maybe like a, like a marketing based approach where it's like, look, you come to our workout class and you're going to leave super sore. Yeah. And you're, oh, look, you could only do one rep at the end because you were so fried and whatever, because I would predict these things. Yes. Closer to failure, more soreness potentially. And so you leave the class, you're like, I got a good workout. And it's like, yeah, I feel obliterated. Yeah. I think that's really tricky too, because I do think that people expect to feel that way at the end of those types of workouts. But we know that if, if I were training someone who was an actual beginner to lifting, we know that's not the smartest approach. Totally. It's probably best to have them do like a shorter session, uh, maybe like 30 minutes, have them rest for longer, um, go slower, pay attention to their form, have them do like one or two working sets of every exercise and then have them leave feeling really good. And so we can hopefully mitigate some muscle soreness the next couple of days. But I think when that happens, you run the risk of them being like, oh, I don't feel anything. That did nothing. I'm not going to go back. And so I do think while the, the approach that, you know, I described is probably the better approach from a long-term and, you know, smart trainer perspective, responsible perspective, is that, is it going to actually backfire in terms of getting them to come back? Yeah. Because they don't understand. Because they're hearing suffer or something like that. Yeah. And they're like, oh, I don't feel obliterated. I'm not going to go back. But then, of course you have on the other side, maybe they're too sore the next few days and then they hate it. So there's, there's also that. So I, I don't know. I think it's tricky kind of balanced, like what, what, what's actually the right approach to do things versus what people think that they want, because they're not always the same. Yeah. I think there's some opportunities for learning when, you know, people are warming up, you get to describe, hey, here are the goals of the workout. Here's how you should feel. And you said, here's why we structured it this way. I mean, I assume look at 45, I assume is doing well financially, other class, class. Yeah. Yeah. Like whatever, they have a sauce that's working from a adherence, reducing the churn rate, getting people to participate and come back standpoint. But like, you probably make the program a little better. I feel pretty confident. Yeah. I mean, I, I've already, I've toyed with the idea and I'm very much right now firmly know, but I'm like, man, if I could ever, if I ever want to open my own gym, I already know how I'd run it. I'd probably make it like small group sessions. They'd probably be mostly like traditional strength training base, or at least, you know, starting out with traditional strength training, maybe ending with a couple of intelligently programmed circuits, things like that. But it would be, yeah, it was, it would be all be about like, okay, if you're a beginner, here's your, maybe like your four week beginner intro course that you're going to start with. Then after that, you can then graduate to the intermediate advanced group. And then this is how we're going to do things. We're not doing things for time. We're doing things for, you know, reps. We're going to learn to embrace the rest periods, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So I've all thought about those things. Unfortunately, as I'm sure you probably know, running a in-person gym is extremely time consuming. Oh yeah. Logistics can be really, really rough to work with. Profit margin is like almost non-existent. So lots of things to consider there, but I'm like, I like the idea of it. We need a, we need a, we need an AI hologram of, of Sohi. And it would just like, she can do that while you're busy. You can do everything. Yeah. Like, don't me, I honestly, I love, I love working with people in person. I find it extremely gratifying in a way that the online work will, will never measure up. We know this, the in-person relationships are so valuable, but at the same time, you know, it really, and people who are in person, you know, full-time personal trainers at a, at a gym will understand. Obviously it's a huge sacrifice to make in terms of your time and energy consumption. Yep. So I love training people in person, but I only have so many hours in a day and I'm like, Oh, gotta make a trade off somewhere. A hundred percent. All right. So that link to her paper is in the show notes below. And so I encourage you to take a read again, even if you're like, look, I understand that it's all this now, the background reading and stuff is, is excellent in the paper. So well done. Oh yeah. Thank you. And actually the one other point I want to mention, because when I posted about the study, of course we got some well criticisms, like, well, you know, not a lot of us can do that exact circuit in our gym setting. It's not meant to be literal because, you know, I don't expect people to have access to a leg press and a flat dumbbell, like a bench press and a trap bar machine, like trap bar deadlift. Yeah. A trap bar, all three of them at the same time. Of course, if you're at a busy gym, you're not realistically, that's not going to happen. A jerk face. Yeah. You take it up all the equipment, but you can find similar alternatives where you can maybe maximize like space efficiency. Maybe you can find dumbbell turners for all of them. Totally. You know, those, there's always options and alternatives. Yeah. For the leg press, you could do some sort of squat pattern, a goblet squat for, for example, a line, I mean, whatever, some sort of squat pattern type movement. Yeah. Or you can also add in unilateral exercises, which we purposely didn't do because obviously for like through max testing, it's a lot trickier to be like, well, she got four reps on this leg and two reps on this leg. So what do we say? So we kept it bilateral for everything, but you could obviously swap in like reverse lunges, step ups, things like that if you wanted to. Yeah. Agreed. When you see a squat pattern or a press pattern or row pattern or a hinge pattern, there are multiple subs within those categories. We predict they'd all work reasonably well for the same sort of health promotion, stuff like that. Right. All right. Let's shift gears a little bit. One thing I wanted to talk to you about for a long time now was your experience.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop But she's always had a trainer in some capacity, someone working with her. And so when eventually, I want to say like six years ago, we ended up living in the same general area. Actually, I want to say like closer to four years ago is when we moved out to OC, which is where they also are in Orange County. And then, you know, I immediately built a garage gym. And so she would come over and like, I want to say once or twice a week. And it was oftentimes my I was the one prompting her because she's she's not someone who inherently loves to exercise. She's not the type to go out and do a workout by herself. But if she has the accountability, she will she will show up. Right. So every time she does any form of exercise, golfing, Pilates, lifting with me is always with someone else. OK. Right. So that's something that I noticed very early on. I also noticed that she's not the type to enjoy pushing herself much on her own. And, you know, and I say this with the most love of my heart. I don't she doesn't have the greatest body awareness in the gym. So I'll have her let's say I'll have her do a set of goblet squats. We'll rest two minutes, three minutes. And I'll say, OK, do it again. She goes, what am I doing? What do I do? You know, and then, you know, and then the next week I'll say, OK, this is your warm up set. Here's your weight. And she'd be like, this is way too heavy. And I'm like, you did this last week as a warm up. And she's like, oh, you know, so it's like you need she's someone who really needs someone there with her to be like, this is how the exercise looks. This is the weight you're going to do. This is how many reps you're going to perform. Yeah. So she really needs a lot of that guidance. But she's great, at least with me, not with my dad, funnily enough. She's great at listening to me as a head for trainer. But then, you know, if it's my dad's trainer, she she's like, I'm not doing this. I don't want to do this anymore. You know how you know how it is with like family members can be like that sometimes. But it was it was really fun because I wanted to keep it. It was really important to me to make it a very positive experience for her. And that meant, at least for now, those types of, you know, the F45 or those classes would not be a good fit for her. I think she'd feel too overwhelmed. The music would probably be too loud. The rest periods would be too short. So I was like, I have to cater this to her, but also make the session short enough that she is willing to actually show up in the first place. So my first several sessions with her, they were like 20 minutes long. They were very, very short. And I would do yeah, I would do like two sets of maybe six exercises. And I would like superset, you know, upper, lower, upper, lower, upper, lower. And then I'd be like, OK, that's on. And then she's like, oh, that's it. Oh, yeah, I'm done. And then over time, you slowly add on more. You slowly add on more. You make them a little bit, you know, tougher. You add the load and so on. And then over time she saw, oh, she and then she would show up the next week and be like, oh, my golf game is getting really good. My golf swing is really strong and everyone's starting to notice. And then she gets more excited about it. And you say, yeah, that's because you're lifting weights and you're getting stronger here. And then she becomes more motivated to keep going. So it became a really positive feedback loop. So we've been we've been training together on and off for a number of years now. It's been really fun. Yeah, no, that's a similar similar kind of experience with my dad, Leonard. He he does like exercising, but he would not do the type of exercise that I want him to do. Yeah. Which look full marks to him. Like you want to go to the gym. You want to lift some weights. You want to do some cardio or as he calls it, cardio's, which. That's great. Yeah. Hats off to you. But I you know, in this particular case, he was coming off this knee replacement and he suffered a pretty significant loss of not only mobility, although now his pain was better, but in strength. And such. And so that was his motivation. And so, you know, admittedly, for he's 73 now, admittedly, it's challenging to get a septuagenarian under the barbell to squat, for example, especially if they haven't been doing it their whole life. You know, so that's not something he would do. And I actually asked him because I was out of town for a bit. I was like, hey, would you like do the leg press? He's like, how do you do that? And I'm like, OK, so we need we need some guidance here. Yeah. Yeah. And so it sounds like her initial program was relatively shorter, less that's less volume or whatever. And then as she not only got more familiar with the exercises, but also as her fitness improved, her training tolerance improved, you added more. So if her initial sessions were 20 minutes ish, right, with lighter weights and whatever, relatively. How long do her sessions last now? I mean, they're there. Yeah, they're like 50 minutes, five, five zero minutes now. So almost an hour. And if you do that twice a week, that's a lot. That's a lot of lifting. Oh, yeah, that's really good. And what's nice is that because it's obviously my private gym, she plays the music that she wants when she's wrestling. She does whatever she wants. Wait, what does she listen to? When my dad's here, they turn on NPR, actually. Oh, OK. I don't know. I didn't know what I expected, like Pink Pony Club, but no, it's NPR. No, my parents are very, they love the classical music and stuff. So sometimes my dad will play opera. I don't know. And I'm like, you know, and sometimes I have to override and like, listen, I can't do this because I'm also working out. So I'm going to change the music to something that I can lift to. But I give them a lot of flexibility. Like, for example, when we're home and she's training at my garage gym between sets, she likes to wander out to my garden and check on my plants. Yeah, which is nice for your plants. I'm like, that's great. But and then I'll let you know when you have to come back in to do your next set. You got to call mom. Come back. It's time to squat. She's like in her. She's got her gardening gloves on and she's like digging, you know, in the dirt and whatever. But I think it's quite cute because she obviously wouldn't be able to do that in a in a in a different gym setting. Yeah. Yeah. With a different trainer. Not a lot of gardens at the local 24 hour. Yeah. So I'm like, you know what? As long as you're doing your sets, I don't care what you do in between. Totally. Yeah. One of the interesting things here that I want you to speak to is on like progression here. We've gone through so much like trying public facing publishing about what is really progressive overload. What is progressive? Yeah. And the way we explain it is that as your fitness increases, whether it's measured by strength, whether it's measured by cardiorespiratory fitness. Yeah. Train tolerance, whatever. However, you'll have to do more to get the same type of training stress. You're really not trying to increase the training stress, but really just match it to your new level of fitness. Yeah. Whereas on the other side of things, people are like, no, you just have to add weight every time you go to the go to the gym or add a rep. Right. Which is obviously an oversimplification. Because if we don't think that strength improves really reliably on a weekly basis, for example, then adding weight or adding a rep would really just be like, we'll just make it harder. And it's like, well, it should be the same level of hard. Because you're supposed to be getting fitter over time. Yeah. It's like chicken egg kind of situation. Yeah. Is that what you use with her? Yes. But we're also talking about exercise progressions too, right? So if she's doing a incline pushup or a torso elevated pushup, which I like to do it on a squat rack as much as possible, obviously not realistic for everyone, especially if you're at a busy gym. But it's very easy to adjust the height of the barbell, right? You're like, oh, you're on this number hole. Then you lower it over time. So, for example, if she's doing like three sets of eight at a given height, like shoulder height barbell, and it's obviously starting to get easy for her, I would either add reps or I'm like, okay, let's lower the height of the bar. That way, even though when you log it, you're like, okay, she's on hold, so-and-so, the total load technically does increase because she's lifting more of her relative body weight. It's technically still considered an exercise progression because you're making the exercise itself harder. So, I mean, you can do this with almost every movement pattern. You can find regressions and progressions. Totally. But, for example, I probably would not have her do a barbell back squat, per se, given her movement patterns and her level of body awareness. But maybe I'll have her do a lever squat. Or a goblet squat. I can have her do a leg press. Yes. I can have her do a goblet squat. Those things. I can have her do a unilateral, like a brace dumbbell split squat. And maybe over time, you progress that to dumbbell in each hand doing reverse lunges. Yep. You know, there's always variations you can do like that. It's the same thing I've done with my dad. Now, obviously, you had some anatomical, you know, limitations initially. Yeah, yeah, right. But we were doing safety squat bar box squats. And people were like, why did you start there? And I'm like, well, I'm a powerlifter. And, like, old habits die hard. Like, I want people to squat. But he could do it. And also him holding that was much easier than a straight barbell. Yeah. Yeah. But his range of motion was limited initially, as well as his, like, awareness of kinesthetic awareness, you know, from moving through space. Right, right, right. So you probably had him do, like, higher box squats. Yep. Got lower. Eventually didn't need the box anymore. Could squat, you know, to depth. And same thing on the deadlift. Initially, it was from an elevated surface. And then it was from the ground. And so there are multiple options. And, you know, sometimes it does add load, like in the push-up example that you have. Sometimes it adds a stability component, like going from an assisted split squat to a freestanding split squat of some version. And, yeah, obviously you can add reps. You can add sets. But the whole point here of the progressions is that once their fitness is improved to a point where their current, you know, prescription is no longer challenging enough for them, you have to change something. But you don't make that change ahead of time. That's not the – that's kind of the line on the stand I'm drawing. It's like as you get stronger, the weight will go up. You don't add the weight necessarily to get stronger, if that makes sense. And I think people have a tough time with that. They're like, oh, I just have to add five pounds every single time. And I'm like, big if true. That would be incredible. Imagine if – imagine you put five pounds on your deadlift every single week. Well, why am I not deadlift at 1,000 pounds? Right. Right. And then I think we do have a lot of people thinking that. And then they get upset if they can't – Oh, I failed. – getting strength every week. And I'm like, can you imagine how much you'd be lifting by the end of the year if you really were lifting that much more every single week, even if it was two and a half pounds every week. That would be incredible. Yeah. I have a shirt that I bought. It was an incorrect purchase. It was one of those things like a targeted ad. And I was like, oh, cool. It was just a random like LSKD shirt or whatever. And on the back it says 1% better every day. I'm like, well, so then at the end of the year, 365 – That's a big percentage. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know that that's reasonable. I get the message, but come on, guys. The idea of it is nice, but when you really do the math, you're like, that doesn't make sense. Yeah. That's the worst. Yeah. So she's training with you every single time, approximately twice a week. Is that what you guys are doing? Once or twice a week. It depends on her – it depends on like both her availabilities. Okay. And actually sometimes she does come to – but now I also have a warehouse gym, which is where I am now. Sometimes my parents will come here without me, and they'll be like, hey, we're here now. We're training. And then it's always the same thing where my dad's like, she didn't listen to me, but she still did some stuff. But I'm like, I don't care as long as you're doing it. Yeah. You're trying. Yeah. The participation is important. You're showing up. You're doing it. And obviously if they're traveling a lot more, it's harder for them to be consistent. But I'm like, I don't mind those breaks here and there as long as you eventually get back to it. Yeah. But yeah, she's doing great. What was – what would you say like the biggest challenge that you faced with training her? And while you marinate on that, just with my dad, the biggest challenge for him is almost holding him back a little bit. Oh, interesting. Because he's like, just add more weight. Oh. Because his thing is like, he's like, I want to look like you. I'm like, oh, I don't know that that's in the cards. Just like I've taken some various specific steps to get here. But hey, he's like, but if I lift more weight, I'm going to look like you. I'm like, eh. Oh. Anyway, that's a challenge. I think it was probably the opposite for my mom where she convinces herself that everything's too heavy for her, even when she's more than capable. You know, as I mentioned earlier, when she's done it as a warm-up set before, the week prior. And she's like, oh, this is really heavy. And I'm like, no, this is a warm-up set. It's a literal warm-up set. And then you – then, of course, you increase the loads for the next second. She wants to get – she's like, there's no way I can do this. And then she busts out eight pristine reps. And I'm like, okay, you did it. So it's kind of like every exercise feels a little bit like that. But, you know, I've been training with her, training her for long enough where I can't anticipate this. And you're not really dismissing their complaints per se. No. But you know that they are telling themselves a false narrative. Yeah. You had a redirect of like, look, you might feel this, but the reality – Yeah. And we're not going to do – I'm not going to listen to you in this specific scenario because we know for a fact that it's incorrect. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. So that's probably the big thing for her. So, I mean, if anything, I think it really demonstrates that every person is different. And their obstacles and their mental barriers are different. And you have to approach them all differently. Also, she is the type to get very frustrated if you overcorrect or you nitpick. So I have never been super – I've never been a super stickler about her form. Yeah, you're not like barking at her between – No. So – no, no, no. So even if her hips sag a little bit in the pushup, I don't – I'm not going to – I'm going to leave it. You know? I'm like, you're still doing the reps. You're still getting the benefit of the exercise, so I'm going to leave it. So I think that has been another important thing for her is to be like, okay, keep it a fun environment where she doesn't get frustrated. Yeah. One of the interesting challenges I would have not predicted is that – so Leonard – I film him quite often just to like show him because if he's like, this is heavy or this is light, and I show him like, actually, the bar speed is kind of indicative that it actually is a challenge. But he will invariably post these things on Facebook as – Oh, that's really sweet. Yeah. Totally. But like one of his recent deadlift sets, he did 275 for a couple sets of four. Yeah, right? I'm like, Leonard, what a savage. Yeah, that's serious. But the comments underneath are not like, go, Leonard, go whatever. They're more like, you're going to hurt yourself. Of course, yeah. So, you know, and it's like – and even in the gym, I've had people like try to pull me aside and like, hey, are you sure that he should be doing these things? And I'm like, I'm pretty sure. Like, I'm pretty sure. Maybe if you want to look up barbell medicine. So obviously you're in a private setting so that you're not getting that in person. Oh, that would really annoy me. But it's – I mean, it's to be expected, I guess. Yeah, it's almost like this learned fragility kind of thing or learned fear. Yeah, yeah. This idea that if you're older, you're fragile and you can't – you're not capable or you shouldn't be lifting heavy things. And I think it's disempowering. It does us a disservice. Yeah. It's – if anything, that population is more vulnerable to the effects of detraining and insufficient activity. And so most – what I find is that most fitness advice geared towards that audience, they results in underloading and undertraining. And I'm like, it's better than nothing, to be clear. No hate comms, peace and love. It's better than nothing. But from like a maximizing the return on investment for time, let's put our best foot forward. Let's make sure it's an adequate resistance. You're doing an adequate number of reps. It's getting appropriately challenging. It shouldn't be maximal, but you're getting there. And rinse, lather, repeat. But these are people like, ah, no, you can never touch a barbell. I'm like, well, God forbid you got to pick something up off the floor in your day-to-day life or like sit down on the toilet and get up by yourself. I mean, what's your – never squat. Like how do you interface with the environment, you know? Yeah. And I think it also comes from those people who grew up in a generation where lifting weights wasn't that common to begin with. And especially – I know, obviously, you're training your dad. I'm training my mom. But like women – my mom growing up, no one lifted. Women didn't lift at all. Yeah, why didn't they? And so I think for them to – even for my mom, when I have her dad lift like even like 115, 125 pounds, she's always like, there's no way I can do this. And I'll film her. I'll send her the video. And, you know, she was objecting the whole time she was doing it. But then she'll go and send it to all her friends. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I know what I did. So that's pretty cute. She's like, oh, look at how much weight I lifted. So it's pretty cute. But also it shows that there is a lot of learned false narrative. Yeah. That social learning component is huge. With like how much you should or shouldn't lift, how much you should or shouldn't do, or what we're capable of. And yet, obviously, they experience the benefits of it. Yeah. And then we know, too, you know, there's research on participants in their 60s and 70s. You can still gain muscle and strength when you're older. So there really is never a point when it is too late to start lifting. Yeah. I'm mostly concerned. Which is really cool. Yeah. When it comes to exercise prescription in this population, if this was a special population, which I don't – the only reason I view it as special is like, look, most of these people are not active, which makes it special by default. But my biggest concern is underloading versus overloading. Yes. You know, that seems to be more common. Has there been anything like surprising that she's been able to do either in training or as a result of her training that you otherwise like would not have guessed? Like I imagine a scenario where you're like, I don't know if mom can like overhead press, for example. Oh, shoot. She's amazing. She's so good. Or a pull-up. I don't know. Anything like that that's happened that you've been surprised by? I think her deadlift progress has been really good. I will say that she still struggles with like proper hip hinge, especially when it comes to like to the conventional deadlift versus high bar, trap bar deadlift she's a lot more comfortable with. But it's been really cool to see her grind out some pretty heavy reps that even when she's like, there's no way I can do this unless she does like six, you know? Yeah, she's like, oh, just kidding. That's been really great to see. And then obviously outside the gym, she is very independent. She does a lot of things on her own, which I love to see. And I'm hoping that that continues for a long time with her. Yeah. Yeah. Pops, we've been doing a bunch of lap pull-downs and variations thereof and rows and such. And I had this wild hair just to propose the idea to him because he was a Marine. He was in the military. And I was like, hey, do you remember, like, could you do a bunch of pull-ups like back in the day? He's like, oh, yeah, I was excellent, Adam. I'm like, you think you could do a pull-up or a chin-up now? And he's like, huh, I probably haven't tried one in over 20 years. I'm like, well, why don't you? Oh, my gosh. So I showed him, right? And just do this. And he got up there, and he cranked out three chin-ups like right in a row. We had not. Wow. And I was like, dad, holy crap, man, what the heck? That's very cool. That one, and then there's a golf course that we play called Medeiros, and there's a forced – my dad will not move up a tee box. He just refuses, and we go back and forth. But anyway, there's a forced carry. I think it's 165 yards, whatever. And he's never been able to make the distance off the tee. Yeah. Okay. And then, I don't know, a couple months into training, he finally does it. And he looks at me, and I go, either you got much better at golf all of a sudden or this added strength is paying off. So now he's like, how do I swing the club faster? I'm like, all right, I don't know if we need to speed train or anything, Leonard, but we'll just keep getting stronger and see what happens. Yeah. Yeah. And I think using those kinds of motivators to get them to keep showing up and stay excited about lifting, I would absolutely use that to your advantage. Because I do say, this is going to help you do golf swing. Totally. This is going to give you a more powerful hip rotation, this and that. And she's like, oh, that's great. I want to do more of this. And so a lot of people, their main motivation for lifting is not, I want to be really good at lifting. It's either like general health improvement or I want to get better at this thing outside the gym. And I think it's totally valid to have those reasons. And I would use that to your advantage as much as possible. Yeah, it's a great leverage point for motivational interviewing to do stuff. Not everybody is cut out to be a power lifter. And then also if you're like a science-based lifter, that term has been used derogatorily as of late. But like you don't have to be like – So is educated apparently. That's true, yeah. You're educated. Actually, this is not the best exercise for like club head speed. I'm like, dude, shut up. Come on. Yeah. Anyway, so I'll wrap this portion up. This is maybe the most important question I've ever asked on a podcast, so no pressure. Okay. What advice do you have for somebody who wants to get their parent or loved one started in the gym? Obviously, you and your mom's relationship are close otherwise, and she knows you're a fitness professional and you have resources. Oh, just come over to the garage or come to the warehouse gym. But a person who maybe doesn't have that background personally and those resources personally, any sort of advice that you would try to give them here? Yes. I would try to – I like to keep an open invite for lifting. For example, there was a time, I want to say last year or the year before, when my mom's older sister was visiting for several weeks, and she would come over with my mom when my mom would come over to train at my garage gym. And my aunt, who doesn't really exercise, she would stand in the garage doorway and watch us as we would work out, we would live together. And I'd always say, do you want to join? No? Okay. That's fine. And then by the end of week two, she was like, okay, I'll try something. Yeah, cool. And I had her do like a 10-minute workout. And I wish she would have stayed for longer because, you know, I would have gotten her to do more and more. But it was very like, you don't want to force them. You don't want to scare them. You want to – I think like, you know, let them become curious and watch you over time. I think a lot of being a role model is really, really important to show that you're doing the thing. And so she'd watch us the whole time. And she finally was like, okay, I'll try this like low box step up, body weight step up for now. And then I'll do this – these rows and these dumbbell bench press and things like that. And so I think leaving that door open is really important rather than making you feel like you're forcing them. You shouldn't be forcing them into like, you have to do this or else blah, blah, blah. And the other thing I would do is find out what their biggest barriers are and remove those barriers as much as possible. For example, if they don't want to leave the house, if they're afraid of being watched by other people, can you bring some equipment into their home and modify workouts that they can do in their living room? Yep. And take them through a workout like let's do something for 15 minutes, one five. Yeah. I don't care if it's ideal or whatever. All I'm trying to do is get you building the momentum of exercising and then over time we can always add from there. So that's kind of the approach that I would take. And again, make it fun. What music do you want to listen to? Yep. Do you want to have a TV show on in the background? I don't care. Yep. How can I make this fun for you? I think that's really, really important. It's great advice because, yeah, and I'm sure you get this question all the time too. It's like, oh, how do I get this person in my life that I care about to exercise? And invariably where people tend to start, at least my experience has been, people want to extol the benefits of exercise. They want to do this long oratory of like, well, the data shows this or like, you know, and it's like, look, most people by and large know that exercise would benefit them. That's not going to like trigger this. Wow. Now I'm so motivated. Thank you so much for your hour long dinner time, you know, table talk. Instead, it's like, hey, why don't you come work out with me? Or why don't you let me, you know, show you some stuff in the gym? Like basically you're making it a little social. You're removing that barrier. You're removing the barrier of like, hey, I've never been to this. I don't know how to do the exercises. You're checking all of those common barriers off. And so there may be additional ones for the individual that in that case you would handle specifically. But yeah, I find like, look, don't, you don't got to preach these people. It's the same way you don't have to tell a person who's smoking. They know. Stop it. Stop it. Smoking is going to be good for them. Yeah, right, right, right. It's how do you facilitate that? Yeah. Actually, okay. So that reminds me, I don't know that I've ever talked about this publicly before. And I think it's okay for me to talk about. Exclusive. So one of my chapters of my thesis, and we collect the data on this too, we're trying to get it published, was a survey on perceived benefits and barriers to lifting in women, right? Perceived, right? And so we had women who self-identified as like regularly resistance trained versus non-resistance trained. So people who lift regularly versus not. And we found actually that both groups had similar levels of perceived benefits to lifting. So even if you don't lift, you understand the health benefits. Totally. So to your point, you're totally right. There's no, we don't have to be like, this is what it's good for. Yeah, we got it. That's great. We know that. But it was obviously the difference came down to the non-lifting group. Their perceived barriers were much, much higher. And again, I think it's important to emphasize perceived. Totally. Because when you think you have less time, even if you do have time, you're going to feel more overwhelmed and you're going to be less willing to do the thing. And the biggest barrier was time effort. And social barrier was a big one, too. So how can we address those exact barriers? Okay, cool. Hey, can you find two jugs of water or sacks of rice around your home? Totally. Then you can lift with me in your living room. You're such a 20-minute follow along. Do this with me. They're like, okay, I can do that. Then I can stay in my outfit. I don't have to change. I don't have to be embarrassed or self-conscious of other people watching me. And I don't have to worry about a commute to and from the gym. Done. I've addressed all those things. So lots of ways to facilitate that. Yeah. The ultimate goal is to get people bit by this physical activity bug, this exercise bug. Yeah, they're like, oh, I feel good. Yeah. Oh, yeah. And I think it's almost human nature. And I'm not a psychiatrist. This is not my area of expertise. But I think there is something that once you get that first taste of a win or success, that then people are like, how do I do it better? How do I get more out of this? How do I, you know, and it's kind of a positive feedback loop, but then people are probably more open to, oh, maybe I would go to a gym. Or maybe I would, you know, do something a little bit more, quote, optimal for the educated people. Yeah. Yeah. And well, yes, actually, that's a good point. Because I think a lot of people, they're so consumed with it has to be done perfectly or it has to be done optimally, or I'm not going to do it at all. And I'm like, I don't care about what's optimal as long as you're doing something. And then we can always improve upon that over time. Yes. Yeah, agreed. Anyone who's able to should exercise. We want you to do as much of it as possible, but anything is better than nothing for sure. Yeah. Which is why I think a lot of the debates we see online, like splitting hairs over, like what exercise and what angle of this and that exercise is. I'm like, I really don't think that. Couldn't care less. Couldn't care less. Like not even a little bit. No. Won't find me in the comment section. Yeah. No. Yeah. So. No, this is great. This is excellent. I am sensitive to your time. And also just every time I get to talk to you has been amazing. So before we go, can you tell people where to find Dr. Sohee Carpenter? Yes. So my, my username is SoheeFit across every social media platform. I would say I'm most active on Instagram, but there's also a website. I'm on, I guess, Thrive is technically considered a newer social media platform. I'm like somewhat active on there too, but you know, I'm on all the major platforms. SoheeFit. Yeah. I'm pretty easy to find. We'll link all of our stuff in the show notes below. And as always, it's been a pleasure. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Again, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. Special thanks to Dr. Carpenter for joining us today. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: EPC 2019 in London： Injury Risk in Powerlifting ft. Mike Israetel, Mike T, Eric Helms, and More [StDKHbqhG64].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel where we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Fyginbomb, and we are back. It has been a long time since uploaded to the video, but IMoved. I went abroad for a whole month and have a lot of content for you guys that I want to share. In this video, we are going to recap my trip to London for the European Powerlifting Conference 2019. Alright, welcome back. If you're new to our channel, make sure you hit subscribe so you get updated with all the latest content that we put out. And if you're an OG, thank you for being patient for this latest upload. It's been a work in progress and again, getting moved and traveling all over the place is not made it easy to do so, but I have a lot of content that I'll be releasing over the next few weeks, including a bunch of trening vlogs and I have a meet coming up. So it's going to be good. Now what I was originally going to do is just upload clips from the European Powerlifting Conference with some of the speakers and some recaps that I got with them after the conference was over. But for myself, I figured that I could actually do my presentation here in the studio under the control environment compared to the auditorium where the audio wasn't that great, the lighting wasn't that great. And to be honest, the footage we got from it, Jim Elliott was on the camera. What is up, is Jim Elliott specifically Jordan Faganbaum's presentation? Pretty cool, but also mostly the rebuttal that Jordan and Mike Israel had in the kale discussion was interesting because a lot of times you hear people's opinions about things with no response and I thought that actually really helped me think about things that I would otherwise just agree with on face value. By hearing someone else's opinion on that subject and honestly, you do just realize that everything's a little bit more nuanced than that. It's not bad, it just wasn't complete and what I'd rather do is try to give you guys my presentation on injury risk and risk reduction in powerlifting. So we'll put my PowerPoint up here and you guys can follow along. The links to all the studies that I cite in here will be in the description below and as well as some other ways that you can keep up with latest barbell medicine content. So let's start out here. So let's establish our objectives for this presentation. One, we want to define what an injury is. We want to characterize the injury risk in powerlifting, discuss strategies for injury risk reduction and discuss strategies for injury management. We're going to try to jam this in to about 20 minutes. I had an hour to present at the European Powerlifting Conference and there were somEQuestions that kind of ate up some time. But if we can jam this into 20 minutes, I think that'll be good. And then you guys can hear from the rest of the speakers. So disclaimers, this is not medical advice. I am not your doctor. You should seek professional evaluation and we have a great pain rehab, consult service that we offer through barbell medicine. So I own that company. That's my conflict of interest. So the first part we should start with is what is an injury and the very beginning, why do these definitions even matter? How you define an injury determines its prevalence, meaning that when you try to study this in the research, if you change the definition, you can actually change the prevalence or how many injuries you see in a population. So prevalence is a scientific term for the number of active cases present in a population at a given time. So to highlight this, we'll look at a study from Bar at Al. They studied 176 volleyball players during the 2001 World Tour to the eight-week competition. They used two different definitions to try to compare the prevalence of injuries in this athletic population. So definition one, they used what's called a time loss definition for injury, which is any physical complaint that resulted in time loss from competition or trening. Definition number two was based purely on physical symptoms. So any physical complaint of pain sustained by the player during a volleyball match or trening irrespective of the need for medical attention or time loss from volleyball activities or trening. So using definition one, which was the time loss definition, 23 injuries were reported in these 176 volleyball players over the eight weeks. The majority were mild and the only missed one to three days. Using definition number two, which was again, the physical symptoms irrespective of time loss or actual need for medical evaluation, there were 54 injuries. So over double the amount of injuries that were reported. However, 98% of women and 100% of men did not miss any play in time. Meaning that these people had physical complaints. However, they didn't actually need to change their trening or their competition schedule. So the real question is, is that an injury? Is that a useful definition? What do we need to actually have criteria wise for something to be meaningfully called an injury? So to help guide us, I think if we go back into the history of where the word injury even comes from, that might actually help us determine where to go next. The word injuries actually derived from a 14th century Latin word injury, which breaks down into not right. So in meaning not and then juror meaning right or loss of not right. So the earliest history of this being written down or recorded probably goes to Homer. A Greek author in the 8th century BC book, The Iliad. He describes a crash of a humiloce of Corinth during a chariot race. And he says that he has Rexus of the skin, which is a discontinuity in the skin. The injuries also described in the book of Genesis in the Bible when Jacob's thigh was out of joint secondary to wrestling. However, it's interesting that neither then nor seemingly now do we have a unified definition for what an injury actually is. Because neither of those texts actually characterized what was being experienced by the individual. And thus the reader's left wanting more details was umilose in pain after being thrown from his chariot was Jacob able to walk it off after his thigh was out of place. Hard to say and again, we don't know that from either of those texts. And so it's just interesting that that's where it came from. We still didn't really have a good characterization of what it actually meant to have a quote unquote injury. So really from then until about 2006, we didn't have a unified definition for sports injury. So enter the first World Congress on Sports injury, which was held by FIFA in 2006. Basically they came up with different types of injuries that fell under the umbrella term of sports injuries. So there could be a physical complaint injury, which was any physical complaint sustained by a player resulting from a football match or football trening irrespective of the need for medical attention or time loss from football activities. There was also a medical attention injury, which was any physical complaint requiring medical attention, a time loss injury, any physical complaint that resulted in time loss from trening a competition. And then a non-fatal catastrophic injury. This was actually added a year later in 2007. This is a brain or spinal cord injury resulting in greater than 12 months of severe functional disability. So this was actually the first kind of consensus on this is what a sports injury is. However, this was just for the sport of soccer. And it hasn't been widely adopted in either the research literature or by other sports organizations. And so we still don't have this definition of. Here's what an injury is. Here are the criteria. And that really tends to influence the research. And unfortunately, it makes it harder to analyze and interpret these sorts of things. So we're going to get into it during this presentation and try to make sense of the data as it pertains to powerlifting. So unfortunately, these criteria have not been adopted by either the research or other sports organizations. And on the one hand, it's frustrating because that influences the actual research we have on injury prevalence in certain sports. On the other hand, it's kind of understandable because different sports are likely to have different injury criteria based on the needs of that sport. So for example, consider a gymnast and a figure skater suffer a wrist-sprayin during trening. Does this constitute an injury in both athletes? Probably not the wrist-brayin only limits the gymnast likely whereas the same injury probably doesn't affect the figure skater. Although it might and in which case we could call that an injury. So just having these sort of physical complaints that maybe don't influence actual trening or competition schedule, it'd be hard to say. And so you might need different criteria for each sport. Also perspective matters. And so it depends who you're asking what constitutes an injury. Are you asking the athlete? Are you asking the clinician or the coach? So actually this study was done by boiling at Al in 2018 where they interviewed athletes, coaches and physical therapists on what defines a sport injury. In general, athletes tend to focus on criteria specific to their own context. So a reduction in performance, having to change their plan, competition or trening, stuff that immediately are directly affected them, conversely physical therapists tend to focus on things that they could find on physical exam. So weakness, instability, or pain. But not the change in trening plan or competition schedule that seem to be more meaningful to the actual athlete. So the authors actually concluded that a sports injury should not be viewed as a health condition in itself, but should rather be viewed as an interaction between physical damage and contextual factors. So one of the hardest things I had to do for this presentation was actually created definition of injury. We propose a definition for injury that we're currently using in a prospective trial on about 500 individuals participating in powerlifting trening. This is a headed up by Dr. Michael Ray and their collecting data right now. So the Barbell Medicine definition for injury is any complaint that causes a reduction in sports performance, secondary to trening or competition. That's criteria one. Criteria number two is pain or discomfort as rated by the athlete and or objective neurological deficits that includes cognitive deficits as well that might occur from like a post-concussive syndrome or something like that that are experienced during or secondary to sports trening and or competition. And in addition, any use of over the counter or prescribed anal gs to reduce pain or discomfort during trening or competitive sport would also fit this criteria. And then finally criteria number three, trening or competition schedule is modified significantly to reflect a changing goals or prioritized outcomes secondary to points one and two. In this case, the term modified refers to the alteration of single competition or at least one weeks worth of trening. For example, I power lifter withdraws from a full power me due to knee pain and reduced performance in the squat and or deadlift and now focuses on a bench only meat. So that would qualify for the competition schedule being modified. So after these criteria have been set forth, we also wanted to classify sports injuries as and there's a variety. So what we did is we came up with different sort of time periods that reflects the severity of the injury based on our definition. So a minor injury one to 14 days is the duration, a moderate injury, 15 to 30 days and a serious injury greater than 30 days. And we picked these words carefully because language matters. Other classification systems and then in studies where they do actually define how they characterized an injury will say things like severe or catastrophic injuries for things that last longer than 30 days. And that may actually impair not only the current sort of symptoms that may make it worse and it may actually impair the rehab and recovery process. It should be noted that injuries arecomplex and it may be possible for an athlete to meet points one and three without point two, but this should necessarily negate a classification of a sports injury that person would still likely qualify. Even if they don't have a pain or discomfort or an objective neurological deficit although most of the time they likely will. So one should note that there's no requirement for tissue damage. And the best way to talk about this is actually by using an example so we'll use delayed onset muscle soreness which is known as doms. Using these criteria, routine delayed onset muscle soreness or doms would not be considered an injury. While doms can produce short-term reduction in performance as well as mild pain or discomfort, it does not typically require substantial prolong modification of the trening or competition schedule unless it is very severe. In that case when doms is very severe, it would qualify as an injury but your regular soreness would not. One thing you'll notice about our definition of injury is that it's lacking any sort of requirement for tissue damage. That's because tissue damage doesn't reliably correlate to pain or dysfunction and so that's why we left it out and we'll go through this a little bit further. But before we do that, this is really one of the problems in the FIFA definition that was put forth in 2006. Each one of those items, each one of the types of injuries that they proposed, the categories was based around this sort of physical complaint like it's all biological or it's all tissue damage. But as we'll see that doesn't seem to be the case. So speaking of tissue damage, one problem with the finding injury is that there's no real distinction between disease and injury. Some scientists tend to hold the idea that injury describes damage to the body due to sudden energy changes, whereas a disease makes its presence known over longer periods of time. But this presents a number of problems with respect to injuries and pain that aren't reliably correlated to tissue damage, such as non-specific low back pain and some causes of tendonopathy, tendonopathy being an umbrella term that refers to tendon pain without specifying an underlying pathology. So we're going to make the case that tissue damage is not the same as pain. The biomedical understanding of pain is problematic. It inaccurately endorses a linear relationship between noxious stimuli and pain and is often dualist or reductionist. From a reductionist perspective, pain is often considered to be in the brain. The biocycossocial conceptualization of pain suggests biological, psychological and social factors all being integrated together at the brain, body and the environmental level. The person's experience of that integration. However, biology does not equal pain on its own. So let's go through some examples here. So for example, 21 major league baseball players received serial shoulder MRIs prior to each season for 10 years. All the pictures had some sort of tear or defect observed on MRI. 11 showed a rotator cuff tear. 9 showed an articular surface tear of the superspinatus tendon and 2 showed full thickness rotator cuff tears. Interestingly, all of the pictures were asymptomatic. They had no symptoms. Furthermore, those with evidence of a rotator cuff tear pitched over a thousand career anines were as those without evidence of a rotator cuff tear pitched less anines. About 729, this is from Lezniak 2013. The authors actually said there are no statistically significant findings between any single preseason MRI finding and subsequent time on the disabled list. A moving to a basketball, the reported prevalence of meniscal and articular cartilage abnormalities based on MRI findings are about 20 and 50 percent in asymptomatic, collegiate and professional basketball players respectively. So collegiate basketball players, about 20 percent, prevalence of meniscal and articular cartilage a damage on MRI whereas professional ball players is about 50 percent. They further reviewed MRIs on both knees of 14 NBA players who at the time of MRI demonstrated a normal physical exam meaning there were no deficiencies found on clinical exam. They had full range of motion, no joint swelling or tenderness, no ligamentes into stability, etc. All the players who had MRIs of their knees had at least one imaging abnormality. Only 3 knees total, 10 percent of the sample had no evidence of abnormality. Papas at al found a high prevalence of both patella and quadriceps tendon abnormalities in a review of 24 D1 college basketball players, a specifically 83 percent of women and 90 percent of men showed abnormal patella tendon findings. Additionally 75 percent of women and 90 percent of men showed abnormal quadriceps tendon findings. And again, I cannot stress this enough. All of these individuals we just talked about with all these imaging abnormalities were asymptomatic at the time of imaging asymptomatic. And so the reasons for this are numerous here are two potential ways to understand this. One, the tissue damage, quote unquote, may be adaptive. For example, when researchers compare the thickness of ACL and PCL which are ligaments in the knee in high level weight lifters versus sedentary controls, they found that weight lifters had much larger ACLs and PCLs. On average, weight lifters ACL were approximately 78 percent larger than those of their age match controls. Further, increasing the cross-sectional area, of those crucial ligaments, the ACL and the PCL could represent one way of reducing injury risk based on the current evidence of modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors for a knee injury. Another issue with just trying to connect tissue damage that's diagnosed via imaging is that this may not be reliably diagnosed to begin with. So MRIs, while useful in many cases, are probably not as reliable as the public and some doctors think. So this is one of my favorite studies by Herzog in 2016. They sent the 63-year-old woman with back pain and sciatica to 10 different MRI facilities each who had a different radiologist who generated a different report. The 10 different radiologists generated 49 different findings in total, 16 of which were unique and not aromasingle finding was found in all 10 reports. On average, each radiologist made about a dozen errors, either false positives or false negatives. Again, we hold MRIs up to be this whole eGrail for diagnosing tissue damage, but it doesn't appear to be as reliable some of the time. And then, again, people can have MRI abnormalities and still compete at a very high level. So, again, imaging abnormalities might be an artifact of improper reading or improper interpretation based on the actual radiologist report or maybe adaptive or it might just be a twa at a time-wasted on useless detail. It might not mean anything with respect to injury or pain and that kind of comports with our morecomplex model, the biosecoces social model of forepain that you hear us talk about. So, much, so the TLDR is super hard to define an injury, but how we define an injury actually matters. So, again, it cannot be stated enough that tissue damage does not reliably correlate to pain. You can have observable defects or abnormalities on imaging and that not be tied to pain or dysfunction. And so, thinking of everything is just related to the biology or the anatomy, that's very reductionist and we don't want to do that. And so, by the same token, pain does not necessarily mean harm. With that in mind, imaging should always be interpreted in the clinical context. In other words, it's not a finding a lesson connects in some way to a person's case. Just going in to have an MRI to check things out is likely a bad idea because you can find a host of abnormalities that otherwise wouldn't cause you any sort of issue unless you knew about it. So, do you want to know? It depends. The clinical context is important. So, now that we have a better idea of what an injury actually is and the problems with defining injuries, and then also tissue damage, let's talk about injury risk in power lifting. But, present, we have about eight studies that look specifically at the injury risk in power lifting and I've linked them all in the description below. The range of findings is between one to four injuries per thousand participation hours or about one to two injuries per athlete per year. This is similar across all barbell sports such as weightlifting and crossfit. The other hand, bodybuilding is slightly lower and strongman and highland games are slightly higher, although admittedly there are very few studies looking at strongman and highland games, athletes, injury rates. So, while the rate actually seems to be pretty low for power lifting injuries, the prevalence or number of total cases in a population can actually be high depending on how you define it. So, there's a 2018 study by a strong back at Al, they did it on sub elite Swedish power lifters. They basically took the people who were just below that elite cutoff based on a Wilkes score and then gave them a survey, asked them about injuries and certain trening and lifestyle habits. They found that 90 of 104 responders either had a current injury or an injury in the past 12 months. While the store is out to be about 3.9 injuries per thousand participation hours as far as a rate is concerned, the overall prevalence was quite high. However, this prevalence is significantly impacted by the definition that they use. In this study, they decided that an injury was defined as a condition of pain or impairment of bodily function that affected a power lifters trening. For example, 73 individuals reported a current injury, but only 40 actually changed their trening by reducing volume or intensity. Conversely, about 12 people decided to increase their emphasis on technique, seven emphasized their warm-up does this constitute a meaningful change for those that emphasize their technique or their warm-up? Probably not. Maybe the 40 individuals who reported changing their volume or intensity actually had an injury whereas the other folks probably not if they didn't actually have to modify their trening meaningfully. Another interesting thing is that the symptoms tend to be relatively short-lived, the average duration of injury in this study and the other studies that actually report a duration is less than two weeks. So, it's not like you're building towards this catastrophic injury. You know, all this tissue damage has to build up and then boom, you blow up in your out for months that appears to be less than two weeks. So, again, the injury rates relatively low and comparable to other non-contact sports and then the duration of symptoms tends to be relatively low as well. Another problem with the study is that it was retrospective. It asked athletes to recall self-reporting injuries over the past year. Recall bias is super common in these types of studies as participants may not remember previous events or experiences accurately and they might emit details. Additionally, the accuracy and number of memories recalled may be influenced by the events and the experiences themselves, aka in this case, the injury. Finally, the validity of a recalling an injury and retrospective injury studies has been shown to be very low even when assessed by medical professionals. We prefer to do a prospective study, which is what we're actually doing on our current study. So, thEQuestion we have is, is powerlifting safe? It appears to be relatively safe. One of four injuries per thousand participation hours, which is similar to other non-contact sports. So, for example, a prospective study of injuries in about 300 elites, we just track and feel athletes show that they had an injury rate of about 3.57 injuries per thousand participation hours. Interestingly, walk in in cycling are not purely benign either. Walking, for instance, has an injury rate as high as 1.2 injuries per thousand participation hours. cycling on the other hand has an injury rate around 2 injuries per thousand participation hours. When you compare this to popular sports, context sports, like American football and wrestling, American football has got an injury rate of 9.6 injuries per thousand participation hours and wrestlinGHas an injury rate of 5.7 injuries per thousand participation hours according to a study by Hootman at Allen 2007. Sports like soccer, rugby and cricket all have these massively inflated injury rates as well, 15 to 81 injuries per thousand participation hours. So, comparatively powerlifting is pretty safe. So, thEQuestion then becomes, is it worth the risk? And I think if we turn to Nietzsche and one of the greatest rappers of the early 2000s DMX, we can get some insight on this. Nietzsche is a German philosopher and former soccer player and he's known for this phrase, the man who's the soccer player, he's a bi-fi-mediate and the stuff. DMX also said in his 1998 hit single slip-in. So, if you find meaning in the suffering from powerlifting, it's worth it. Up next, let's discuss some strategies for injury risk reduction. So, intrinsic factors are things like gender, competitive standard, so are you elite, are you novice, bodyweight age, load lift, some of these things are modifiable, some of these things are non-modifiable. So, we'll talk about gender here. First, where differences were observed, women actually tend to have a slightly lower injury rate in barbell sports compared to men, 1.3 injuries per lifter per year, compared to 2.1 injuries per lifter per year, and this was in two separate studies. Higher rate of knee injuries than men, however, which actually comports with other existing data we have on knee injury incidents in women in sports, but that's for a whole another video because the risk factors there probably are not just related to their gender. Moving on, competitive So, two studies actually investigated this. They compared elite level, international level competitors to non-alite or national level weight lifters. Elite lifters actually had a lower injury rate, 3.6 injuries per thousand participation hours versus 5.8 injuries per thousand participation hours for the non-alite weight lifters. Another study by Rasky at our reported 2.6 injuries per thousand participation hours in the elite group and 2.9 injuries per thousand participation hours in the non-alite weight lifting group. So getting more advanced in sport doesn't appear to confer additional risk. In fact, it may be a protective and one of the mechanisms here might be just building up this tolerance to tren and the adaptive changes in all of the tissues and metabolic systems and the sort of physiology of the lifter to tolerate the type of trening needed to perform at that high level. As far as body weight is concerned, there's actually no data on power of senior weight lifting and body weight and how it correlates to injury risk. However, there was aromasingle study that was performed on strong man athletes and reported that heavyweight athletes, those who were greater than 231 pounds or 105 kilos, had more injuries than lightweight competitors, those who weighed less than 105 kilos. Basically, the difference is very small, however. Zero point five injuries per thousand participation hours for the heavyweight lifters compared to 0.3 injuries per thousand participation hours for the lightweight lifters. With respect to age, again, there's no data on power lifting and weight lifting. There's a study on strong man athletes that reported fewer injuries and athletes over the age of 30 compared to those under the age of 30. But again, this difference is pretty small. So poinT3 injuries in the people over the age of 30 per thousand participation hours compared to 0.5 injuries in those under the age of 30 per thousand participation hours. With respect to the load being lifted, it in power lifting strong back showed that hitting a personal best was weekly correlated with reporting a current injury and had an odds ratio of 1.02. Now, this is important. An odds ratio isn't as statistical measure used to determine how strongly two events are correlated to each other. So an odds ratio of one suggests that two events are independent of one another, whereas a number higher or lower than one suggests a positive or negative correlation respectively. The further the number is away from one, the stronger the correlation. Importantly, correlation cannot prove causation. So in this case, the odds ratio of 1.02 is extremely small, perhaps meaningless or even artifact increase in risk. So we don't really have data of suggesting that increased load and power lifting increases the risk. And finally, this 2017 meta-analysis by Kio at Al, which, again, a link to the description below, is a meta-analysis on 20 studies, on injuries and barbell sports concluded, in general, intrinsic factors have relatively little effect on the injury epidemiology of the weight trening sports. Moving on to extrinsic factors. So there are some extrinsic factors that don't have any influence. So things like competition rules, trening or competitive environment or any specific equipment, actually increase injury risk. We don't have any data suggesting that that exists. That being said, we do have some data suggesting that extrinsic factors like the acute on chronic workload, stress levels, trening level, and strength levels all can correlate to injury risk. For instance, acute to chronic workload, the load refers to the internal load. Internal load is the relative physiological and psychological stress imposed by external load. Ergo, the volume intensity rest periods the overall work on the individual as interpreted through their individual characteristics, their genetics, their previous trening status, their expectations, etc. So you have external load, which are, you know, all the parameters of your trening, individuals characteristics, you add them together and you get the internal load and you can measure this with things like heart rate change, or things like RPE, a particular set, or a session RPE. And overall, internal workloads can be described as a measure of the perception of effort by the athletes themselves. So what's interestinGHere is that subjective metrics like RPE, session RPE, etc. correlate better with injury risk than external factors like intensity, volume, etc. For example, the acute chronic workload ratio considers the trening load that the athlete has performed relative to the trening load that he or she has been prepared for. In practice, this means that the workload assigned to a liftor should not be too much greater than what they are able to currently tolerate. So one way to measure this is to actually compare the current weeks trening to the previous four weeks of trening and just make sure that the increase isn't too great. That being said, it's hard to be confident about using a specific interval here like should it be this week compared to the previous four weeks, previous three weeks, previous two weeks probably needs to be adjusted for each sport. It's also hard to be confident in how some of the state actually applies to resistance trening since it's still pretty new and we're kind of sucing out the details even in how to measure it. So the way that we're currently comparing workloads are by using session RPE and the duration of the session in minutes and we'recomparing the average weekly values compared to the previous four weeks average. And just kind of seeing like, hey, what's the ratio between the acute workload to the chronic workload? That's rather complicated and I think one practical tool that you can take home is to start rating your session RPE. session RP, again, it's a scale going from one to ten, 10 being very very hard, one being very, very easy. If you note that most of your trening sessions are RP 10, session RP 10, you're laying it all out there that probably portends a bad outcome. Some sessions may be very, very difficult but they all shouldn't be maximal all the time. Conversely, if they're very, very low, say less than five, that probably means that they're a little too easy for your given fitness level. And so therefore, may not be adding to the sort of trening stress that's needed to drive for their adaptations. So again, it's important to make sure that the current level of trening is reflective of your previous level of trening and that you're not going up too quickly too soon because that's probably going to lead to a bad outcome. The next extrinsic factor that's meaningful is managing stress. And this is something we talk about all the time. So this is stress from work, school, interpersonal relationships, et cetera, all part of the individual characteristics that influence the internal load. So again, external load or all the objective values of the trening session and then your individual characteristics sort of interpret that or filter it like an Instagram post and gives you the internal load. That's a result. And so we actually have some decent data here on this. So for example, a division one study on their collegiate athletes, they had a much higher risk of injury when academic stress was high than when it was low despite trening and competition schedules being the same during both periods. And so one way that you can get around this is by having an auto regulated program where you're allowing for these day-to-day variations fluctuations or even week-to-week variations and fluctuations in your not only readiness to tren, but also the resources you have for adapting to and tolerating that trening. Speaking of trening, becoming well-trened is a great way to reduce your injury risk. And we call this the trening injury prevention paradox. This is a phenomena where athletes accustomed to high trening loads tend to have fewer injuries that athletes trening at a lower workload. This is also known as the workload injury paradox whereby higher chronic workload is protective against injury when acute workload is similar to that chronic workload. So trening more and becoming more well-trened tends to reduce the risk of injury. So gradually increasing the trening load over time so you can handle more workload tends to be a good idea to reduce the risk of injury. There's some evidence for this with respect to higher level lifters actually having a lower injury risk. We talked about that a few minutes ago. And the takeaway here is that when you actually again look at the higher level lifters, the elite level lifters, they're actually trening at much higher volumes, much higher frequencies usually than newer lifters and yet their injury risk tends to either be the same or lower in these studies that we actually have inside it here. So what you would expect is that since they're participating in more and more trening that they're actually at risk, higher risk for for injuries but in fact they're not in there. It appeared to be again sort of able to tolerate this increased level of trening due to rashing up that workload over time becoming more well-trened. Probably one of the biggest extrinsic factors that we can actually modify here is getting stronger. Unfortunately, there's no data on powerlifting or barbell sports on actually like, oh, however strong you are correlates to your injury risk. But in other sports, there's clear data here. So for example, a study on 26,000 athletes showed that improving strength reduced sports injuries to less than one-third and overuse injuries could be reduced by half. Another study analyzing injury risk reduction from strength trening showed a 10% increase in strength trening volume reduced the risk of injury by more than 4% at points. Overall, this probably kind of falls or ties into that become well-trened category. As getting stronger over time requires more trening and therefore the tolerance or being able to tolerate increased trening load. One thing we can't leave out we're talking about barbell sports are accidents. So for instance, dropping weights on feet are fairly common, accidents in the weight room are common with actual increased risk in younger individuals who presented to the emergency department. Injuries were classified as accidental if it was caused by dropping a weight or improper equipment use. So in a sample of over 4,000 patients, a 77% of the injuries seen in the age group 8 to 13 were due to accidental injuries. So again, dropping a weight or improper equipment use were as 27 and a half percent of all weight room related injuries were accidental in the age group 22 to 30. So still significant, watch your toes, don't drop weights on your toes if you can avoid that. In addition to accidents, a catastrophic injuries do happen but they're relatively rare. And so you look at case reports to kind of see like, hey, what sort of things are happening? Is there any way to reduce the risk from these catastrophic injuries? And I don't think so outside of safety practices in the gym. So for example, there's one study that reported a clavicle fracture that occurred during the bench press. Somebody broke their collarbone during the bench press. Another case report where a guy had a simultaneous rotator cuff and biceps tendon tear during strong manic competition. I'm not sure that there's anything that you can do to reduce the risk there. Okay. And fortunately fatal accidents in the weight room are relatively rare. So again, only handful of case reports here. The first report I found was a nine-year-old boy had a 23 kilo barbell fallen his chest from the uprights on a bench support in the home. So I assume that there was a bench press in the home and there was an oddly specific yet non-standardized 23 kilo barbell just resting on the uprights and any event this bar came down landed on their chest. The kids chest and twirl hold on his right atrium did not survive that unfortunately. The second report, weight lifter who was using animal steroids, experienced sudden cardiac death, although the sudden cardiac death might have been due to an arrhythmia, due to a congenital defect in certain ion channels which can happen too. Overall, I'm not sure that we can actually reduce the risk of these types of events. So last part of my presentation was on injury management and I think that is best saved for another time because it's a pretty expansive topic. I'm already running long to begin with and I think that we have some more concise and accessible and easily digestible resources that I've linked in the description below. There's a great video with Dr. Bracky and a handful of our different articles that I think would be useful to plug in here. So overall that was my presentation at the 2019 European Powerlifting Conference. It sounds much better in here than it does in the auditorium so hopefully you guys enjoyed and now let's hear from some of the other presenters at the conference. You can get really the results because now that it is really exercising intensely and that's not going to be actually competitive. To defend that, you will really all sign slowly, which is no race ever, and no competition ever. Both at the moment, you can just split just slowly and then you can walk that takes like 30 seconds. So, I would want to characterize our riders and then sort of join the rest with best. So we know that the protein can have a significant impact on body opposition, especially for cutting, you know, exhibition, protein, also maintaining body mass. All right, raising the addition to supporting performance on to prevent fatigue, you know, that our ability to work in Passy is regularly in store-stored glyphogen levels. It also spare with room to ease. They allow that for the teams we used for cellophonal superpincynthesis rather than being working down on an enemy. Facial auto-operative, they help us support hormone production. Maybe it could taste good. And there are a few fantastic, also essential amino acids. So we do have to get those from the diet. So we're gonna, there are low, safe limits for all these nutrients. Now, a couple of high-finished meat, hence, have to take time with your own. You can make our own little close. You can give it any of your chances, but that's really not a factor of work requirements. Let's go on my name's Eric Helms. I am here at the EPC. I am a research fellow at the Gopton University of Technology, not strength conditioning at Ph.D. And also one of the co-founders in the Chief Science Officer of 3D muscle journey. I talked about sticking to agents in power lifts today. What causes them how we should be thinking about them and just realize that we're gonna have them regardless on one of the evidence of these strategies that we could use to address them. Okay, now, in serious note, I'm presenting on that sticky, sticky, if you put it in an air, as carbon, whatever, not sticky voice. What do we know? What are they? How we define them? What do they mean? And should we be doing anything about them? Who here is aware of the internal battle between specificity and an inviriation and an in the world of power with them? Less side, first of Shai-Ko, first of the Bulgarian system, and first of the Middle East, first of my teams, we put a K-D show up and we're very different, vice-chair-in, and how we're gonna do a more impressive role with her. Don't you know, it's 2019 Mathematics Science. It's a vicious, vicious, warm round, isn't it? So, this continued from an outside, as you're expected, if you're a computer power, you're not all looks to say, you guys are just doing variations, I'm better press-watching it, but that's kind of silly. But a lot of it is also driven by tradition, who's a pervert of Louis Sims. Does someone who, yes, you could lose you? Out! So, yeah, this is something that is present in all things that you can do. If we do things because other people do things, and then we feel it's appropriate to do those things, because we want to get excited, because smart people say we do it, or you're a good listener, or you're a good coach. We inherit a lot of ideas without actually knowing the idea, but many of the idea, I think it's kind of a good thing. Like, what I see is we go through phases and power of movements we consider good accessories for x-wanted, the real reason everyone was doing off-delessor and the names for a while, because not for these names, I get it because shekno, right? Or we need to pause to ask for a while, not because owning most right down the whole loss, like this whole heart of sense of, right? And if that's on what area you're in, we did the first type of, which because, there you go, right? So there are rationality, and these people didn't go to these for reasons, but the individuals you might be seeing do it done, or the people letting that out, often the reason has no more depth than I've heard of, which was a good accessory movement to do. So I want to take this movement beyond that. I want to explore the continuum of accessory movement, as in a little bit of a statement watch. And to do that, we have to have an understanding of what's taking points are, if they're, and what actually makes sense for a scientific biochemical perspective, to do about it. So, who will aspect as my talk, that I addressed to these main common practice, you'll see pauses in power of the thing, something that you'll see in various types of programming, that they have deadlifted the cause of the needs. This is often done as hyperlithin for the purpose of trying to get stronger than showing where you're weak. But if you think about it, if you are weak in a certain sticking region, do you actually want to be trening yourself to reduce less force by stopping there? Probably not. However, you make it technical fault, just off the floor to the knee, where the barter of the leg is very common thing. It might make sense to have a fallen, as a sort of trait of partial range emotion, to actually chunk the movement from motor learning. So, that is probably a better approach, and I better use this method rather than thinking about it's the sticking region. I should actually pause there. What's the MMA fighter? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can count on me, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like if Conner McGregor, like lifted weights, and like, with strong. Conner McGregor? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. All right, so this is Brett Gives, I have a world championship, multi-time I have, we'll champion Big Bencha, Bintcha, he was talking to me the other day about why Griffa's close grip of Benchpress for competition. Yeah, what do your thoughts? Well, IMean, there's always things that you should be in the sports field, what's from the field? Yeah, I guess we got talking about it. IMean, but the other day, I said, I didn't notice you were close to being, I guess, Junior, most people were up. Sure, yeah. I'm an off, and I had gone through that. And initially, I said what happened, I was sort of, you know, usual sort of, think you're on the ring. I guess a lot of people started around there. And then I took my pick. IMean, then it wasn't a full theory that was like, not just a small possibility, but I wasn't able to be inside that. And so, because you had that in the back, you might have said, we had to close grip for a while, and I got really, really strong at that close grip. And going out white, I was felt with and it wasn't as strong. So I trened like that for a long long time, so arms pretty much root for it. And eventually got the point where it was super, super hard to make progress. Like I got around around, around 180 to 195, which is still a great interest. And I was making those, obviously made them broken from around, you know, I put about 20 kilos on it, so it's like, for instance. But it's couldn't give past their corners, essentially. I knew that. If you look at most of the biggest benches, they're not super close, they're not going to start with their arms root cool. Or even two fingers outside of it, it's going to be least on the ring and water, right? So I knew that going out water, was going to have a higher strength, but tension on the fucking tendu to tren while they've, you know, the next two or three years. Even if I take a hit now, like 10 kilos now, I can go out of the water, and it's going to result in a bigger benches, essentially. And what's your bench now? Which is exactly what happens. So the biggest benches I've actually done now is 220 kilos. IMean, I have, oh, I reckon I would have zero chance of being able to do that with the close grip. And I also think that it can, that can definitely, so that was obviously the recovery aspects, the variety, so the trensference of exercise that you're going to have with, you know, with close grip being your competition, pressing movements. So it's again, trensference and secondary loss, you know, water those exercises going to be, that's essentially. So you get a lot more variety, you get a lot more volume in when you're sort of somewhere in that sweet pedal, and then a wrench, just a walk, and you know, see that, you know? Hey guys, Dr. Mike Guitel from Renaissance Periodization. Our average foods are often the tastiest food in the world. They are foods, though, we'll sort of one at a time, which are very food. We've got a man, which are very food, cookies. Those are cars. Does anyone have a bigger food than just not have cars? Let's hear it in this first, say they hear it. I'm sure it's gone. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do. This is a big amount of fat food anywhere. And there's about 2009, we're like, you put bacon and everything. It is cool to eat bacon, like you were a f***** apple. Like store-tubered black-bying, you cover up your bacon and you restaurant, and they're, yeah, it's not here. They're in the law office. They can eat bacon. No, anyone with friends? Not all the jokes are funny people. I'm actually laughing at my view. I'm not kidding. I didn't get it. I didn't watch all tasty foods at cars. I don't know why I'm doing it. So when somebody's restricted to car, a high-grade intake, because they have, look, many of us can issue with over-eat food they're super tasty. If you put out cars, I don't feel like I've ever tried this. She ain't even a car to do. Like someone's in a car that you're ghosting. All right, you did a f***** you leading one. Can't have car to do it. Okay. You're like, oh, I got bacon. Put it all in one line and crying while seeing it. You know what IMean? I'm gonna do that side and the car people and walk around with their dogs, made a nice thing, and they'll just like, f*****. I want cars. So if you lower your cars, you can potentially control your appetite from low enough intake, exposed to this super, super-suitable tasteiness. But if you're rich in car-powered intake, you can score a fat child of taking the right high foods, which we'll get into, it can be tough. It can be tough, which is my life, folks. Come to you, it's a beautiful life, our from all over, our, you have those medications. Do the cool, cool thing, more cars like you're in a row, when I think cars like low enough. And they go into some living to that, right? There's a living in that and short term, when they go off and just eat more cars in a team set, or a couple of days, they're also long term to the same team, these end-bremes, six, where I have, I'll start with you know. Those are the downside of car. They're not that. Right? A lot of works that's not a little picture, they're outside of cars, so let's say, a look at those, and see if we can get a little bit more clear. On a side, car or high rates, when you eat them, tend to cross against some of the creation of something, so it's nice. And it's so incredibly helpful, and also muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. If definitely helps with muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, because it is anti-charology, you can even break, and so on as wide as you can, I'm all getting to prevent some muscle loss considerably. If you look at that, one thing is metronautalysis, and the more spot they have there, it actually does have a significant to provide a lot of that all the effects. All of the studies around other people actually lift weights, or people who consume a lot of power at all time, and that probably has even bigger than it all the effects. If you look at the number of people that have ever done in enormous eating, no power to low power, so this is precisely eating zero people. And the artist people in the world get to order a lot of power of high rate, that's probably not the accent. So if you eat carbohydrates, you probably go to a muscle, which is a good thing, which is what we want. So that's good. Power from a normal muscle in other ways. A muscle pump has been implicated in how to get at least a part right because you're constantly not going to be feeding, five cells wide. So if you're able to get a constant power growly, it's a little bit more muscle, it's not just potential, but it's an important point. So if you eat more carbs, you get bigger pumps. You guys are running in charge for a while, you eat carbs, you go to a gym, like IMade of things, and either, and just go in the gym, just get in, I know that's good at carbs, so just have a lot of it. So when you eat carbs, you get a bigger pumps, and then you get a bigger pumps, you probably go to a muscle, that's really good thing. There it is. When you pack it up, you muscle cells by which your cell detects how much glyphogen you are storing, and if you're storing lots of it, it's sort of gives you all clear muscle, what's the best pathways you can go? If you're storing very little glyphogen, but either the body is less inclined to let you grow muscle, it's not a one or zero relationship, it's not under warm, it's probably a sort of scale relationship where if your glyphogen is mostly your fully loving, you are really, really potentially hypertrophy and getting to muscle milk, if you are significantly a loss of glyphogen, muscle milk is much harder, right? So you can probably be under in carbohydrates and you will get some more occasional times where glyphogen is not really highly stored, you're basically got a muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And then, similarly, the take on tip is, you don't need to go crazy, you get super in depth of the numbers, but as long as you're eating enough carbohydrates, you're supporting your trening, and you don't feel like you're super deprived of glycogen, if you feel like you're getting decent, up to the gym, and you feel like your energy levels are good, then you are probably getting enough carbs, and if you wanna push the carb level up the past, that's probably not a ton of advantage. So there's a lot of preference there, just don't go super crazy low in the carbs, and eat enough fats and protein, you can have tons of carbs, you'd be super successful, and you're vast, and then people love you, and you finally have happiness. My guilt about what a massage year's situation. N 2017 Hey, I'm Magto share with zero. Three active treners. mantis And have to be that ambitions will be what's going league. That would be important if you want to know maybe for example the recovery plan of a certain living intervention then you would want to know how much stress that's in part of the organism not necessarily how much volume is. As close as working. Let's work and start here. Let me go back. Let's see where you guys must have the subtle a week. I would say that's kind of thEQuestion that I started out with is what is it that I'm trying to understand when we talk about volume? This volume telling me, this volume answering thEQuestion that's bouncing around my head. ThEQuestion is something about how difficult is this protocol? How difficult is it to complete and how difficult will it be to recover from in a sense of returning to a normal ability to execute the next workout? Recovery is one of these difficult things to define. I think we from a pragmatic standpoint we kind of know what recovery feels like. I'm going to leave it at that for now. I think we get into maybe a rigorous definition of what that's all about. I'd rather focus on some of those things. I think volume is pretty obviously insufficient to answer that question. As an example here, if you imagine that you have a more than 100 kilos and we give you two different protocols. The third of the results is three sets of 12 reps of 60 kilos. That's going to be basically three 12 reps. The Eugene Lates 21, 2100 kilos of volume versus three sets of three reps of 90 kilos. Three are in sets is a little bit more than a third of volume. What impact those two workouts have? JusT3 sets of three are in demand about the third of the resources. No one does the same right? Conversely, what if we try to equate for volume? In terms of ton of share, you can say three sets of 12 reps again, three 12 arm sets. How many three are in sets? What do you need to do? If you're not following, you have to do eighT3 arm sets. If you imagine doing an agenda in the squad of three 12 arm sets versus eighT3 arm sets, it doesn't seem like an equal amount of work. It doesn't seem like this is telling me what I want to know about the difficulty of the resource demand of the trening that I'm doing. This is really important because one of everyone's favoritEQuestions to ask is how does that surprise should I do? I think it turns out that the answer of how much stress is given protocol and partying on a letter that turns out to be a pretty important information and answering that question. You can also count on your card sets. On the Greg's website, there was an article. I think I'm a falsely attributing this agreement with the best of it. In Greg's article, I'm a type of fee risk range. I'm asking about counting on your card sets. I remember when I read that, I was like, man, that's good. That might get it, right? In any dozen of large part, if you take our two protocol, we can increase that of 12 reps, 3 12 arm sets. Well, that's three words and sets, three heart sets, there's jusT3 heart sets, that's also three heart sets. It makes a big more sense that those are similar demand on resources, energy during the session, and after the session. I don't mean that to say energy in terms of caloric expenditure, I'm talking about energy in terms of cognitive emotional energy, how long will you take you to feel normal again after that session? How long does it take the strongest to go away? How long will it take any sort of joint stiffness to go away? It seems like number of heart sets gets closer to that. But then we don't always do 10 RPE sets. We don't always take every set to failure. So we're abouT3 singles and 90 kilos. Those will be singles that are 7 and a half, 8 RPE, somewhere in there. How do those compare to three heart sets? What abouT3 doubles, 85 kilos or 12 singles and 80 kilos? How do they do those things compared to it? The individual singles and 80 kilos, if you're more or less 100 kilos, aromasingle 80 is going to bEQuite easy. Should that count as zero? That doesn't seem right. So what fraction of a heart set should that count as? I started asking myself, where do I think from a practitioner standpoint that, the stress from trening comes from? What I came up with is that it comes from primarily from muscle damage or tissue damage, more waterflates, but some sort of busy logical change as an adult of the trening status and psychological fatigue? Rather than trying to spend a lot of time calculating tonnage and all that stuff, focus more on number of heart sets, something like that, just keep in mind that easy sets don't count as zero, but heart sets definitely count as more than that. Thank you so much for tuning into the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I apologize for the delay, but we are back. Hit subscribe so you can stay up to date with all the latest content. Leave us a comment below, hit the thumbs up. If you're into that sort of thing, I'll see you guys next time. Later. I just want to talk about your calf for a second. No, I don't like pictures, I still hear your soul. It's not a picture, it's a video, it's better. Every frame steals a piece of your soul. So, here's some knowledge, but let's go. There's two parts of your body that it's socially acceptable to regularly display. Look, that's your four arms and calves. So, regardless of which other trening goals are, if you are trening your four arms and calves, like honestly, what's the point? You're always on display. Yeah. You always tren. Yeah. Because, you know. I do try to time it, but yeah, we're going to do nothing. What's your name? How do you say the ball gets full of it? Oh, it's real ball gets full of it. It's real ball. Yeah. You're falling. Yeah? That nail? Yeah. All right, that left where we're at. That's where we're at. California. California. We're here at your five square. Hmm. Apparently, you're telling me this big thing. Over there, yeah. Look, guys. Came all the way to the left. We'll head to the do of this conference. I wanted to see Big Band again with a real take a picture of it. And it's underlocking key. I guess I just got to come back to you. But yeah, so this is Big Band. You're not missing anything today. Maybe next year.

=== FILE: Episode #353： June 2025 Research Review (Heavy Walkouts, Zone 2 Definitions, Exercise and Cancer) [DQqmrGx0EfU].txt ===

 welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and this is the 2025 June research review. We're going to talk about do-heavy walkouts on the squat help make you stronger, and a new study claims that exercise reduces cancer mortality by nearly 40 percent. Is this legit? And new research into what defines zone to cardio. All that and more on this episode of the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I am joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, doing okay, juggling a lot at the moment. Finished up rounds in the hospital earlier this morning, gearing up for yet another move, moving back to San Antonio here soon. So, a lot of things on the plate, but we're doing okay. My platitude for you this morning is time waits for no one. That's deep. Yeah, no one knows what it means, but you can say it, and there you go. All right, well, to keep you on track, because Lorraine would definitely be upset if I kept you on this podcast for too long. Let's just get right into it. A few announcements before we talk about the first paper. First off, just to remind folks, look, if you hate the ads at the beginning of the podcast, in the middle of the podcast, at the end of the podcast, there's an option for you. We hate them too, but we got to fund the operation. You can become a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, and you get ad-free listening. You get discounts on products. You get early access to products. You get extended template samples. You get articles that aren't published anywhere else, transcripts. You get a bunch of support, and your first month is free. You can try that out. You can go to barbellmedicine.supercast.com or click on the link in the description below. It's basically like the cost of a cup of coffee every month. So, you could just buy Dr. Baraki or myself a cup of coffee every month, and we'd be happy about that. Yes. Also, we just put up our live in-person seminar. Our first one we've done in a while. I don't know, when was the last time we did a seminar? Was it LA in 23 maybe? Yeah, we put a pause on it for a while while juggling a lot of other projects, but I guess it's ready to be resurrected. We're getting the band back together. Yes. So, we'll be in San Antonio, Dr. Baraki, myself, Leah Lutz, Tom Capatelli, Dr. Capatelli, as we like to refer to them as. We'll be in San Antonio, Texas, September 20th to 21st for, again, a live in-person barbell medicine seminar. It's on health and performance. So, if you want to learn the barbell medicine methodology, if you want to hang out, you want to lift with us. Come hang out. The description and the link to sign up is in the show notes below. So, we're excited to see some folks. Some new material. It's going to be new, mainly because we got bored with the whole material. So, it's going to be some new stuff. So, pumped on that. Last thing I wanted to bring to your attention is our protein supplement, WayRx. Now, we don't do much advertising for our supplements. We're not a real supplement company. We think what we produce is really high quality, evidence-based, et cetera. But look, we're not trying to shill supplement. We do have them available for those who are interested, but it's not our main sort of thing here. But I do want to plug our protein because WayRx1 is one of the best proteins on the market right now. It's also one of the most affordable products on the market. So, coming in at only 90 calories per serving for 20 grams of protein, we're pretty much the only company in the space that offers a whey protein Isolate supplement that's just protein and no added calories. If you go look at our competitors, they're always in the 120s, 140s, 150s, even up to 180 calories. That's like double what we have. So, just protein, nothing else. Every batch of our protein and all of our supplements are third-party tested for purity. So, feel pretty confident that what you're getting is just protein and the same can't be said for everyone else. Even the big brands that you're like, oh, look, this is in a big box store. I'm like, yeah, that doesn't really matter. And again, we're one of the most affordable whey protein Isolates on the market. We're way less expensive than Legion, Isopure, Optimum, whoever. You can price check us and I feel pretty confident that for whey protein Isolate, we're doing really well. Now, whey protein, the raw material, the price has gone up. We have not increased our prices in years, I think since we started. We're likely to increase them in the next few months. But to the end of this month, for sure, it's the same price. So, if you want to help us out, you want to save some money, head over to our website, www.barblemedicin.com, get some way if you are a protein supplement user, and let us know what you think. We've gotten really good reviews. This may be the first ad we've ever done for a way. So, yeah, maybe don't sign up for my business development course, but you can check out our way. All right, let's get into the first study. This study is titled, Supermaximal Walkouts Protect Against Performance Decrements Experienced in Repeated Sets of Back Squats. So, just before we get into this, Austin, do you have a program, heavy walkouts for people? No, I think that I can see the utility of it in certain contexts. I suppose maybe like, in situations where someone has some anxiety around it, some performance stress, if they are committed to walking out of weight, meaning they're not competing in a meat where they're going to use a monolith and just stand it up out of the monolith, various potential use cases. I don't find myself programming them routinely. I don't personally use them as an aside. I find it very, I don't know, interesting, amusing that this is actually being studied. It's like you can automatically deduce that the researchers in this are big-time powerlifting nerds. Love it. Because no one else is going to be bothering to research this. Yeah, this is by Greast and the research group out of Florida State University. This was published in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research June of this year. So, fresh off the presses. So, just if you don't know what a walkout is, like when we were talking about that, we're literally talking about walking out a squat. So, you pick the bar up off the pins, the J-hooks, whatever, and you walk it out and super maximal means heavier than your max. This probably, I mean, granted, I'm 40 now, but that doesn't mean I've been around since the beginning of time, and the beginning of powerlifting. So, I can't say if it used to be more popular. It certainly seemed that way, but I don't know if that was just in the circles that we were running in or whatever. But yeah, the idea was, well, look, if you want to squat heavier weights, maybe you would do a heavy walkout to feel the weight or whatever. And so, yeah, to your point, these guys probably are interested in powerlifting, but also interested that it's been studied. So, let's give a little background here before we talk about the specifics of the study. So, first off, Strength is muscular force production that's measured in a specific context. And so, in relation to that, there is this concept of like velocity loss during a set. So, this is a marker of like fatigue occurring during the set. So, if you have a really fatiguing set, then you're going to get more velocity loss than a less fatiguing set. So, a higher RPE set, for example, you'll see more velocity loss, generally speaking, than a lower RPE sort of set. Now, recent research into strength training has shown that training closer to failure, as evidenced by greater decreases in barbell velocity, as the set progresses, does not produce greater strength gains than a more modest or smaller loss in bar velocity. And in fact, the opposite has been kind of shown. So, for our strength focused training programs, the way that we coach or whatever, we tend to favor less velocity loss and therefore lower RPE training, so that low fatigue type of setup. And I just want to interject because for those who may be either unfamiliar with some of these terms or like a little bit less familiar with these concepts to put it into kind of more practically understandable terms, when we talk about velocity loss, that's describing the bar and like how quickly you can stand up the weight from a squat getting slower and slower and slower as a set goes on as you get more and more and more tired. And so, I think traditionally the view of like what constitutes effective strength training, heavy air quotes around that, is seeing somebody who is grinding out an extremely difficult hard, hard set where the last rep just inches up millimeter by millimeter. What we are saying is that more recent evidence in this as well as a fair amount of experience has reflected that as far as strength outcomes go, your ability to maximally increase your one rep max kind of strength performance, the bulk of your training actually does not need to be quite that close to failure, that hard, that much of a bar slowdown, nor arguably should it be. There certainly can be some exposure to that level of effort so that you can maybe if you need to grind out that absolute one rep max, be able to do that or to know how to not immediately bail when it gets that hard. But as far as how to best train towards that end, it seems that when we compare people who train while they maintain a bit faster bar speeds at the end of their set, meaning their sets terminate a bit sooner versus going a bit further closer to failure where the bar slows down more, they grind harder, the strength outcomes tend to be a bit better when people keep the bar speed up higher. And so when you say like a little bit lower RPE training or low fatigue template, that doesn't mean you're lifting lighter weights, that doesn't mean you're just doing easy training, it is that each individual set on its own is less fatiguing. You are still exposing yourself to at least moderate to heavy loads, but you're not taking it all the way to failure. Yeah, yeah, imagine like a five rep maximum, which is like 85 86% of a one rep max somewhere somewhere in there. Imagine just doing it for a set of three, you'd have less velocity loss and we would predict that to work better than doing a single set of five to failure and how it costs you less from fatigue. And it'd be even better if maybe you did two sets of three or three sets of three, you know, because you could do that since you didn't go, you didn't, you know, smoke yourself. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Okay, so one strategy for potentially reducing velocity loss during a set is post activation performance enhancement or pape, post activation potential, that sort of thing. So if you didn't want to lower RPE, for example, and you're like, but how can I maintain bar velocities? Is there another way, please help me? This is a strategy that's been investigated in resistance training. So it's mostly a function of neural mechanisms, so some stuff with the brain, nerves, and other short term changes to the level of the muscle itself. So for example, you could do a vertical jump prior to doing a heavy squat or a bench press throw before a heavy bench press, or you could do the opposite. You could do squats before a vertical jump. And there's some evidence that this may work to sort of preserve or even increase the velocity of whatever the second thing is. Now, for example, previous data shows that doing heavy, eccentric only sets a downward phase for bench presses may benefit upper body power production. So this particular study had guys who benched about 315 pounds. They did two reps of eccentric only, again, that's a downward phase, with 110 to 130% of their one rep max bench press loads, just as an aside, I want zero part of that. Yeah, that does not sound pleasant to me. So you've benched, you know, 450, something like that is your best, I think mine and me is 440, whatever. So I'm just imagining unracking 500 pounds and then lowering it to my chest without it completely exploding. Now, I understand Jennifer Thompson has done this, I've seen a video of her lowering 500 pounds to pins and she benches like, I think 330 or something around there is her max. So hats off to her. Yeah, I just want to point out one thing, you said what was the 130% of their max? Yes. You know what that is for? No, I didn't want to do because that just scares me. Yeah, it's for me, it'd be about 585. No chance. Yeah, no, I couldn't even unwrap that. That's what I'm saying, like I would help, you and I would be in my garage, just unwrapping this thing and then you would just explode. You would turn the dust, you'd be a dust on the bench press, at least your upper body. It would just be a guillotine, yeah, that'd be the end of us. And then I'd have to vacuum you up with a dry vac. Anyway, so they did this 110 to 130% of their one rep max bench press loads, they just did two reps bringing the bar down only. Now, so I imagine what happened is they brought the bar down to pins, somebody, they helped them get back up and they did a second rep. Five minutes later after this, they performed a bench press throw with 30% of their one rep max to measure power. I assume this was on a Smith machine, actually, now that I think about it. And there was a 10% increase in power and 6% increase in velocity compared to not doing these heavy overloads. So this thought is like, well, shoot, maybe if we do this sort of heavy overload prior to some sort of test, in this case, the squat, maybe it improves velocity, for example. So this study wanted to look at the effect of walking out a weight higher than the individuals one rep max, their squat one rep max, and their subsequent squat performance. They took 13 healthy dudes who had a one rep max back squat of about two times body weight. The average squat in this study was 425 pounds. So reasonably well trained. They visited the lab four different times. The first was for typical research stuff. So consent, screening, getting height and weight data, etc. The second, they actually tested their one rep max squat. And the third and fourth were experiments, which included either a heavy walk out that was heavier than their one rep max or the placebo walk out, which was like 30% of the one rep max. They had trash bags over the weights. So theoretically, you wouldn't know. Yeah. And I think that is an interesting study in and of itself. Like, when you feel like you start to unwrap the weight or whatever, does like what goes on in your supplementary motor area of your brain to like correct for force production? Or do you just think, well, it could be heavy. So I'm going to go 100%. What do you think? What happened there? Yeah, I mean, I think that it's super fascinating. I think both of us when training towards one rep max strength, we actually pay a lot of attention to the immediate feel of the weight when we unwrap it. And I vividly can recognize periods where I unwrapped it. I'm like, oh, this weight feels like 150 pounds lighter than I expected it to feel. So this is about to fly today. And then other times where it's far, it feels far heavier than you expected to. And so, you know, depending on the context impacts your decision making in that front. But I do remember, you know, years ago, I think it was Bryce Lewis was doing some training. And I remember, I don't know if it had to do with some, maybe some like performance anxiety on the platform or what was what led to it, but he was training where he would have other people load up his bar and put black trash bags over the ends of the weights. And he just went and lifted what his coach put on the bar for him without him having any knowledge of it so that he wouldn't have any kind of like, I guess, negative mindset going into the set, which was interesting to watch at the time. Yeah, I mean, I'm just thinking about and granted, I'm primed a little bit by looking at the weights, I can like tell what it is. Yeah. But what if, for example, you had calibrated kilo plates, but they were the wrong colors? And so like all the reds were blues, instead of being 25, just 20, I don't know, like it would do something, it would prime you in a different way. That'd be a cool experiment. Yeah, maybe, maybe these researchers, since they're powerlifting nerds like us, maybe they'll do that next. So anyway, yeah, they had a heavy, you know, walkout one was 110% and one of the times they visited the lab, and the other one was the placebo walkout was like 30% of the one rep max. So they just walked it out, they held it for 10 seconds, and then they rewracked it. Then they rested for five minutes, and they performed three sets of one repetition at 92.5% of the one rep max, and then data was collected on bar velocity, RPE, and muscle electrical activity via EMG. So results. For both the light and heavy walkouts, power and velocity tended to decrease in the sets performed after the walkouts. No surprise there, you're just lifting heavy weights over and over again, some fatigue is going to occur. RPE also tended to increase in both groups across the sets. However, the decrease in average power and bar velocity were slightly less in the group who did the heavy walkout, and the increase in RPE was also slightly less. Now, this mostly pertained to the very first set after the heavy walkout. And these changes while statistically significant were relatively small. I'm not going to bother reading you the numbers because they would be meaningless. You'd be like, dude, that's just numbers. I don't know what you think of that. I'm telling you though, like, they're not impressive. So then there were also no differences in electrical activity in the muscles as measured by EMG. So to summarize, this study looked at doing a heavy walkout prior to some heavy single repetition squats sets, and it may preserve bar speed and reduce RPE slightly in the very next set. However, the effect does not appear to be very big. And we're talking about like less than a half point in RPE difference. And there were no differences in muscle electrical activity between the heavy and light walkout groups. And the preservation of velocity was also what I would consider to be like an artifact, potentially. It's just not big enough for you to be like, wow. And to me, this is not particularly strong evidence of a benefit from heavy walkouts on or short term performance for one, because statistical significance does not equal clinically significant. In this case, the clinic is the gym. And so the numbers are just too small for me to believe that they're either real or meaningful, certainly. It's also difficult to imagine that these small differences, again, limited to the first back offset would actually lead to better results long term, meaning like someone gains more strength or gains more muscle mass or whatever. It just seems like kind of an interesting finding in a small group that's ultimately like a shoulder shrug. Like, I don't even know that this is real. What do you make of this? Deeply unimpressed as well. I wonder if you compared it with like, have a different group that doesn't do the walkouts beforehand, but instead you just like hype them up before they're set. That would probably have or play them their favorite song, give them a trap slap. And I think that's part of the takeaway is that a lot of this is kind of subjective individual preference based types of things that work for certain people from a performance standpoint in terms of like pre-exercise rituals and various other kind of things that I, you know, if somebody tells me, gosh, when I do a heavy walkout before my set, I feel like Superman going into it. I'm like, cool, like who am I to argue with it? I'm not going to go out of my way to use this ahead of time for people. Unless I think my persistent use case for this is like, somebody who sucks at walking out a heavy weight, like, then it's practice practicing that skill rather than aiming to use it to improve performance on a subsequent squat set. I'd rather just like, I don't know, yell at them a little bit more during their set to like try harder or like tell them this, you know, try to throw the bar off their back when they stand up out of the bottom. And I bet that that would actually have a bigger impact on bar speed than just like holding a heavier weight beforehand. Yeah, yeah, I agree. It's personal preference for barbell sport athletes. Like if you're a powerlifter, for example, this is just, and you prefer doing this, I think it's fine. I'd be more interested to know, like, even if you didn't hype people up, even if you didn't trap slap, even if you didn't play their preferred song, what about just resting more? Sure. You know, like, I assume there's some level of fatigue from the heavy walkout. Yeah. And even some for maybe the placebo walkouts, what about just like hanging out? Yeah, or like visualizing you moving a weight quickly during your rest period. You know, a lot of like, I'm a bigger fan of that, arguably, than some of these other things. Yeah, yeah, I prefer for powerlifters if they're going to do the walkout is more practice, they learn how to pick the weight up, walk it out or whatever and stabilize the weight, you know, if that's something that they struggle with. Like if they, you prefer to somebody to take like three steps, two to three steps out of the rack, but if they take like a dozen, you're like, okay, we should we should practice this maybe. For Olympic weightlifting, I like the front squat, front squat rack holds, but that's more of an isometric like strengthening exercise for them to be able to hold a heavy weight in the rack position. I think there's probably a better training effect there. For overload work, though, I think actual heavy eccentric work is beneficial. And I program that regularly. Now, most people don't have access to like weight releasers, like the stuff that actually comes off the bar when you hit the ground. I've had those before. They're cool. But gosh, what a pain in the ass. Very cumbersome, totally. Yeah. Also, like, maybe I'll try to find this and I'll link it in the show notes. Mike T has this thing, he's in his garage, of course, and he's he walks out, I think the bar weight was like, it was 770 something or close to 800 or whatever, like on the bar. And then weight releasers, he had like 150 or 135 on each side. And if you've never seen these things, they like hang off the bar, and they do oscillate, right? Like I said, a chains, but they're not chains. It's just it's a long metal pole with weights on the bottom of it. And so this thing is swinging. Yeah. And but to his credit, he goes down to the bottom and the weight releasers pop off, and then he stands back up with it. Look, you're stronger eccentrically than you are concentrically by about 20%. So it makes sense. There's some decent training effect there's the pain in the butt to use chains can work, although it's slightly different because the chains obviously stay on the bar. So I don't know if that's really eccentric overload work. Some partial range of motion work for upper body stuff like floor press, board press can work again. It's not the same type of eccentric overload work, but can be useful. I just don't think that heavy walkouts outside of like skill development are super, super useful. Yeah, for powerlifting. Yeah. All right, we're back here on the 2025 research review with Dr. Austin Baraki. We're going to talk about the challenge trial. I got a couple requests from medical colleagues to talk about this. We talked about it previously on our first episode of the rundown and now we're going to get into it. Let's just say that this this study is challenging to not only interpret, but also like rationalize like how did the authors come to this these conclusions? So this study is titled Structured Exercise After Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Colon Cancer. Do you want to do like a layperson interpretation of what that study title actually means? Yeah, sure. So basically, when you have a any form of cancer, there are various types of treatment modalities that people can get. And so there can be people might be familiar with chemotherapy, which is usually just drugs of some kind that are ideally targeted towards that particular biology of the cancer that the person has, whether it's a solid tumor in any particular organ, or it's what we'll call a liquid tumor, or a hematologic or a blood based cancer like leukemias. All these things are different diseases. So this is important when people talk about just like quote unquote a cure for cancer. Each cancer is an individual, you know, subset and arguably each individual person's particular tumor that they have has its own unique biology and the ideal scenario, which we're getting closer and closer to each year is better defining the individual biology of each person's cancer and trying to target it with kind of the most modern, you know, agents that we have. So you can use chemotherapy in various different ways. You can use chemotherapy prior to surgery, for example, to try to shrink a tumor to make it easier to take out. You can give people chemo ideally to just actually cure resolve the cancer itself. Or you can use it after some of these treatments as well. This can be paired with other things like surgery to try to cut out a tumor if it's a minimal to that. Or it can or you can use a targeted radiation therapy. And these can again be used in various combinations and in various sequences to try to achieve disease remission to the extent you can. And so part of this idea of combining therapies, you can have things that are called like adjuvants that can be kind of paired with another form of treatment ideally to enhance the overall treatment effect. And so this is a trial that is using chemotherapy. And then you're trying to combine it with the application of exercise after that treatment to see how does this impact their outcomes after going through their chemotherapy and surgical treatment kind of upfront. Yeah, perfect. All right. So the study was published in the New England Journal of Medicine, June. Most of the study took place in Canada and Australia. And so some background information. So colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer globally, second most leading cause of death. The typical treatment, as Dr. Baraki mentioned, is surgery and chemo for localized cancer. It does change if the cancer is spread, for example. But it does recur quite often 20 to 40%. You know, again, then there are unique differences in various types of colorectal cancers in certain populations. That all being said, exercise can reduce the risk of cancer. And that's just broadly speaking for all types of cancers. So it can reduce the risk of developing cancer, it can reduce the disease burden from certain types of cancer, and it can reduce or improve the disease free survival. So like not getting cancer again after it's been treated. So exercising in cancer, pretty good evidence that it can be beneficial. So for example, in a systematic review and meta analysis of 16 studies involving several hundred thousand participants, strength training reduced the risk of any cancer diagnosis by 12% and death from cancer by 15% independent of aerobic exercise activities. Now for colorectal cancer specifically, a meta analysis of 21 studies found that those who exercise the most had about a 25% lower risk of developing colon cancer compared to the least active individuals. Overall, more exercise is generally better for risk reduction and improving quality of life. And the impact on the cancer specific risk depends on the type of cancer, which is highly variable, highly variable. But it's generally exercise is generally beneficial for reducing the risk of developing cancer, reducing the risk of its recurrence and reducing death from cancer in addition to like quality of life. I think what people say exercise is, you know, prevents cancer, both of our eyes get a little big and then they roll to the back of our head because we're like, I mean, all types of cancer, that's probably not true. But like most types of cancer that, you know, develop later on in life that can potentially be impacted by lifestyle. Sure, exercise is beneficial, but like some things that are mostly genetic, probably not a big effect on the cancer risk itself, but certainly could improve quality of life. That's kind of where I'm starting from my base, my baseline here. Yeah, this is just reflecting again, how cancer is not one thing. And so when somebody says that, I'm like, gosh, there are a lot of cancers that I would not expect to have any significant, you know, response from a, from a prevention standpoint to exercise. That's not to say that those patients shouldn't because if you develop cancer, again, the better shape you are going into treatment, the better shape you maintain while you're being treated, the better shape you have after treatment, the better your overall outcomes are going to be in general. But to say that it's going to prevent certain types of, I mean, there are some where it's like, if you have this gene, you're overwhelmingly likely to get this cancer no matter what you do from a lifestyle standpoint. And there are others that are super, super lifestyle responsive. And some of those are the ones, especially like a lot of the obesity associated cancers, or if someone has, you know, I can think of indirect ways if somebody has like, you know, pretty significant fatty liver disease, it's like, that responds pretty nicely to like high intensity exercise and to, you know, pretty modest weight loss. And so that's a way by which you could say, well, it's preventing liver cancer, quote unquote, well, it's one particular type of liver cancer that can develop in a subset of people who have fatty liver disease that persist long enough to generate that risk. But that's a very different claim and a lot less sexy than it just like prevents cancer broadly speaking. Do you ever feel like we like are the crushers of joy? You know, like people say some like, like exercise is good for cancer. And we're like, well, actually, there's we just, I do think, you know, if we're trying to be good science communicators, then the information needs to be correct, it needs to be accessible. And we need to not embellish. So I do think that as much as misinformation kind of harms, so does like misinformation that's embellishing the effect of something that's also harmful, I think. Yeah, this takes me back to a lot of, you know, things in the past five to 10 years that have happened in the public health space and then conversations around it. And I agree that accuracy matters here. And, yeah, to your point, it might seem trivial or annoying that we say things like this. But we've seen the kind of more advanced conclusions that get drawn when this stuff is not delivered in a very clear, accurate way. And the most obvious example in my mind that I tend to think about is during the pandemic time, when there was this idea, and this heralds from, you know, people who don't necessarily buy in entirely to concepts of germ theory, and they're more into the like, quote unquote, terrain theory that like the problem is not that the pathogen or the virus or the bacteria exists, but rather that the person's body is sufficiently unhealthy, that it left them vulnerable to getting this disease. And so then it's just if you are healthy, then you won't get this disease. And then that gets into, you know, effectively a ton of patient blaming and for getting sick. And so it's not to say that, you know, population wide health couldn't improve for sure. But it led to a pretty, I don't know, aggressive lack of empathy for people who got ill, just because maybe it's like, oh, well, they died of COVID. Well, were they, did they, you know, have a excess body fat? Did they have blood pressure? It was that it was their fault for not exercising enough to be healthy enough to not die from COVID. And so we don't love those conclusions, because even if you are quite healthy, you know, you can also get quite ill and potentially die from things, regardless of that. So it is, yeah, we big fans of exercise here, but I think that that's part of why we aim to deliver kind of accurate nuanced messaging around it, rather than making overly broad sweeping claims like, well, if you just exercise more than nothing bad will ever happen to you, from a medical health standpoint or something like that. Yeah, ever. Yeah, you're protected, you know, 100% effective. Yeah. Yeah. All right, let's talk about the study. So it's just under 900 subjects. The average age was 61. It's about half women, half men. Now, all the subjects had undergone surgical resection of stage three or high risk stage two colon cancer. Plus they completed chemo within the last six months. And importantly, they were insufficiently active. They're not meeting the physical activity guidelines to be enrolled in the study, but they were also able to exercise. So those are a couple important criteria for inclusion in the study. Now they got randomized to either a  quote, health education group or a structured exercise group. Now, in the health education group, these folks basically got handouts on health education, so, like, exercise and nutrition, and standard sort of disease-specific follow-up. They didn't see, like, a behaviorist, for example, they didn't see, quote, physical activity consultant, which I assume is just, like, it's almost like legalese for, like, a trainer. So, that was the health education group. The other group was the structured exercise group. Now, they got three years of ongoing support from, again, physical activity consultant, personal trainer. I don't know. Yeah. Plus, they got the health education materials, plus they got an exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors. This exercise was conditioning only, so no resistance training. And I think about this, like, exercise guidebook for colon cancer survivors that was just aerobic training. Like, who wrote that? Yeah. And, like, what are the specific considerations? Like, show me. Yeah. Yeah. Like, maybe walk, maybe ride a bike, maybe do whatever you want. Yeah. My understanding also, I think the supplement that laid out some of the stuff relating to the exercise protocol here was very lengthy and detailed, which raised some concerns or some commentary around, like, the practical feasibility or external validity of this for generalizing to the rest of the population if it was the, like, pretty elaborate and detailed kind of protocol that was in the supplement of this paper. Yeah. Yeah. As far as outcomes, they, for fitness-related outcomes, they measured adherence. They also measured submaximal VO2 max test to see, like, well, did they get fit or when they did the exercise, the group who was doing the exercise compared to the group who just got the regular health education, and they did a six-minute walk test, which is exactly what it sounds like. You get a timer for six minutes. How far can you walk? From health outcomes, they measured disease-free survival, so how long the people went without getting this type of cancer again. Overall, survival, which is exactly what it sounds like, so death from any cause, and adverse events among another handful of other outcomes that don't really change the kind of take on this paper. So we'll limit it to that. As far as results go, so one thing to speak to your point earlier about, like, the feasibility of this, it took 15 years to recruit enough patients, and colorectal cancer is, like, pretty common, and most individuals with colorectal cancer can exercise, and I would assume that since most people don't exercise, that most of these patients also were insufficiently active, so I don't know exactly why it took so long, but I suspect it was, like, hey, would you be interested in this study? Like, you're gonna, you may have to exercise, and people were, like, challenging. I mean, I obviously don't know the details of, like, why the recruitment was so difficult, but for it to take 15 years for a pretty common condition like this, that is concerning. Yeah, I agree. I see people with this and similar types of conditions all the time, and most of them, I'm like, yeah, you'd be a candidate for exercise in this type of a study, so it is an interesting question. Yeah. Yeah. Now, at baseline, both groups averaged about three hours per week of moderate to vigorous physical activity. The average six-minute walk test result was about 530 meters in six minutes, and for those of you wondering, the normal kind of six-minute walk test for an adult is between 400 to 700 meters, so they were insufficiently physically active insofar as they weren't meeting the guidelines, but they were able to basically give a normal functional test, in this case, the six-minute walk test. So that was a baseline. Now, after the intervention, the first thing I want to talk about is adherence. This was generally bad. Only about half of the exercise group attended the recommended exercise sessions that weren't mandatory throughout the study. Two-thirds of the exercise group attended the mandatory behavioral support sessions, so I'm like, we're not doing so hot here. Ultimately, it's like, okay, so they weren't really, and it progressively got worse throughout the study as well. So already we're like, man, this is challenging. And I thought one of the interesting things was they made this big to do about evidence-based behavior change, sort of, you know, theory, and a bunch of references to it, and I'm like, okay, well, how evidence-based is this stuff if it didn't really work? Yeah, I mean, I think this, to some extent, is almost a natural history of any behavior change intervention we see in terms of adherence to dietary interventions, adherence to exercise interventions that is naturally going to, there's going to be some attrition with time. So that's not terribly surprising. I think that the higher of an adherence you're able to achieve and maintain throughout a study, the more confident you are going to be that the differences in groups longitudinally are like related to differences in their actual exercise and the effects of that exercise compared with other things, because then you start to wonder what sorts of things led to that attrition, led to those, led to that drop-off, etc. Yeah, you would also expect that if there were differences in like cancer recurrence in mortality and quality of life or whatever, you would also expect there to be a big difference in physical fitness, and then you'd be like, well, it was probably due to the fitness then, but in this case, that didn't really happen. So for example, the group who was randomized to the exercise group, the structured exercise group, they only did about an hour or two, an hour and a half more exercise per week than the health education group. So they were both of both groups were exercising, and it just wasn't that much more in the exercise only group, which leads to the sort of predicted outcomes. The VO2 max wasn't really different, at least not clinically significant, because it was less than the minimal clinically important difference in VO2 max change. So like, I can't tell you that their VO2 max has got better because it wasn't a big enough difference for me to be confident about that. The six-minute walk test, yeah, if you were in the exercise group, you walked about 13 to 30 meters longer, which is again less than the minimal clinically important difference. Some like this is just an artifact pops possibly of retesting these individuals. Now, what you probably heard about in the headline, if you're tuned into this stuff, was that after a follow-up of about eight years, there was a 28% reduced risk of disease recurrence, so cancer recurrence or death from cancer in the exercise group compared to the health education group. Whoa, 28%. That's effectively better than all chemotherapy agents we have for this particular condition. It also reduced the number of recurrent colon cancer cases. So there were 65 individuals in the exercise group who got colon cancer again versus 81 patients in the health education group. Exercise also reduced the risk of new primary cancers that weren't colon cancer. So for example, 23 patients in the exercise group. Yeah, I had some other type of cancer that developed in the follow-up versus 42 patients in the health education group. And so if that was the headline, if you read something on CNBC or whatever, you'd be like, yep, exercise, panacea, preventing cancer, preventing death from cancer, more exercise. And actually, I'm not, I don't hate that because maybe it encourages more people to exercise even though it's wrong. This is implausible that people had that much of a reduced risk of cancer recurrence in this timeframe. We'll get to that in a second. The only other thing I wanted to talk about with results before we kind of do this interpretation thing was that of adverse events. So 79 patients in the exercise group and 53 patients in the health education group reported musculoskeletal adverse events. Presumably, injuries, they didn't really talk about this much in the supplemental material. Eight were considered to be related to the exercise intervention in the exercise group, which I guess if there was a silver lining of this study, you're like, look, man, about 900 people were randomized here and half of them did the structured exercise group and only eight in the eight years of follow-up had some sort of like musculoskeletal complaint that was due to exercise. Like, cool, cool. I guess that's fine. Yeah, I'm not terribly concerned about that. Feels like a favorable trade-off to whatever extent the benefits are true. It'd be a worthwhile trade-off. Yeah. So my interpretation, first off, is this 28% reduced risk of cancer recurrence or death from disease? Is that real? Seems implausible. I mean, it is probably net good. And I think I'm, I feel confident that, yeah, exercise generally is net good for cancer recurrence, cancer prevention, cancer equality of life with cancer, you know, all that sort of stuff. But it's not reducing the risk of disease in patients with cancer already by 28%. That seems highly unlikely. And there's been some other commentary on this study with respect to like, how quickly were the results sort of recognized versus the time course of the disease in general. So I don't know, does this seem plausible to you or are you in agreement that this seems highly unlikely? This, I would say this changes little to nothing about my general advice relating to exercise as it pertains to patients with cancer. Like, I'm still recommending it as enthusiastically as ever. But I'm not couching that in the claims of you're going to be way, you know, this specific percentage less likely to experience cancer, you know, recurrence, new cancer, die from cancer, et cetera. I'm, I think seeing some replication of something like this would increase our confidence if it was able to replicate. I think that, you know, you point out the discrepancy in like, well, one group exercise, the other didn't as, you know, to the same extent, but the lack of kind of proportionate differences in their fitness outcomes makes it challenging to conclude that the, whatever benefits are being reported are being mediated through this exercise-based pathway, right? And so it's like, you know, in other contexts, if we saw something that had marked, you know, cardiovascular, you know, impact and we're making claims around it impacted by way of like, you know, blood lipids or something, but then the group blood lipids weren't significantly different. It's like, well, maybe that's not the mediating variable that we are actually, you know, delivering this impact through if that impact is in fact real. So you have to have a sense of like, what is the proposed kind of causal pathway here if they didn't get that much fitter for exercise to deliver this big of an impact? Because in other areas, when we see, you know, in general, people who are like big responders to exercise training, they tend to, you know, have robust responses in a lot of different areas. It's less common for somebody to have a big, robust response to exercise in just one area and then be like a non-responder in some other variable. Yeah. All right, well, allow me to speculate and say, tell me what you think about this. So if we agree that the fitness didn't actually improve between groups, there was not a big discrepancy on like the VO2 max, for example, or the six minute walk test between groups, you're like, well, they didn't really get much fitter. So maybe this potential benefit is not mediated through increased fitness, but it still could be influenced due to increased amounts of exercise, perhaps like energy expenditure, right? So the mechanism that Ponser talks about, for example, that if you're using a bunch of energy for exercise, you have less energy available to like fuel nefarious processes like cancer or inflammation, for example. So to me, that seems plausible, but like ultimately, we don't know because energy expenditure wasn't really measured here. We don't see a big difference in weight loss between the individuals. So to the extent that there was more energy expenditure, like did they just counteract that by eating more because they didn't lose a bunch of weight and they're, they have a medical process that's going on right now that actually does tend to cause weight loss. So like, and you maybe you'd want to avoid that, I don't know. It seems plausible that that could be a potential mechanism, but overall, I just think that this amount of disease, risk reduction, mortality reduction, etc. seems to be a little high for what it probably, probably is. If they said, look, there's a 10% risk reduction in developing new cancer if you exercise, even if there wasn't a big difference in like fitness or whatever, I'd be like, well, yeah, most people just didn't exercise. And so that's bringing the things down. But 10% I would buy 28%. I'm like, seems if true, it's the most effective cancer treatment we've ever found for this particular condition, which seems again, unlikely. It's I agree. There's plausibility to other pathways. I think that that's what we would need to determine before we can feel confident in this. And, and, you know, to what I said earlier, like, should this be replicated? Should this type of finding replicate? Then you would say, oh, this is increasingly, you know, plausible as an outcome. But then how are we getting there? What is the what is the causal pathway? Because that would be valuable research for all sorts of reasons. Yeah. Not just because exercise can do this, but also because maybe there are other ways that you can, you know, augment that causal pathway to get a similar survival benefit, you know, beyond just exercise alone, maybe there are other ways to target the same thing. So identifying it is worthwhile if it's true. Yeah. So if I was doing a quality improvement project, how I would kind of like, it wouldn't exactly replicate this study, but it would give, I think, some maybe more practical sort of insights into what you do in the clinic, like with patients, particularly if you're working on oncology. So one, I don't know that this recruitment process and then the behavior change delivery is feasible. Recruiting 15, taking 15 years, that's a non-starter, this intensive resource heavy sort of behavior change stuff that didn't really work anyway. It seems like, man, that probably cost a lot of money, a lot of time, et cetera, and didn't really pan out. So let's maybe train oncology professionals on how to not only recommend exercise, but also like deliver some sort of program to individuals. And let's compare outcomes in those that do participate and those who don't. And so then that would just give us a better insight, like, hey, is this feasible? It doesn't work, you know, in clinic. And I think that would be something I'd be more interested in seeing with more patients and maybe a more diverse set of cancers as well, just to get a better sense of, like, what is the potential impact? And maybe you could come up with like a potential benefit calculator, this interactive tool where it's like, look, if you start exercising, it is likely that you're going to see this benefit. And that might be motivation for people to start or stop, like, look, man, you got this particular type of cancer. Exercise is going to be great for quality of life, but I can't tell you it's going to actually improve your survival. So people should know if you're going to things with eyes wide open, I think. I would also have liked to see resistance training. It's like, if you wrote an exercise recommendation book for colorectal cancer survival, I don't know, you can just talk about aerobic training, like, you know, especially with the risk of sarcopenia from chemotherapy, and in particular illness, like, how are you're not talking about resistance training? Why was that included seems maybe it's just a tracking thing, like it's really difficult to track resistance training participation compared to like aerobic training. I don't know, but that was annoying to me. Yeah, depends on the resources you have at your disposal to guide this exercise. If it is intensive in person type training, that's much more straightforward. You know, I was participating, you know, with the colleague in a research study around exercise in cancer survivorship, basically in patients who've survived their cancer, that study, there was a pilot study. And that was actually getting done just before pandemic. And then once that hit, it ended up shutting down subsequent research because we weren't able to have a much larger cohort of patients coming into the gyms at the time to do that. So to whatever unfortunate consequences that had, it did shut down that project at the time, but it was set up to involve both strength and some aerobic training as well. And that's something that, you know, in most, you know, areas of exercise oncology, of course, it needs to be pretty individualized to the patient, their symptoms, their limitations, their abilities, things like that. But ideally, it does include a component of both. And, you know, I think for the most frail, as in other contexts, the strength training is arguably a more important piece than the aerobic, I think. Yeah. Yeah. So for individuals who are either currently have a cancer diagnosis or are looking to reduce the risk of cancer, particularly colorectal cancer, I think both of us would still recommend exercise. Whether we're talking about prevention, whether we're talking about reducing disease burden, improve survival, improve quality of life, big fans of exercise. I don't know what the exactly the percentage risk reduction there is out there. Again, that's going to be highly variable based on the individual and the type of cancer, etc. Again, we would recommend resistance training and aerobic training. And we also acknowledge that implementation is challenging just because behavior change is challenging. Yeah. Just like behavior changing in any other areas challenging, it's no less challenging here. Arguably in many ways, it can be more challenging. Because a lot of times, you know, I've cited these data before that as soon as somebody gets a cancer diagnosis, about 75% of patients tend to decrease their level of physical activity. Like that day, basically, because suddenly you have this illness, you're sick, your self-concept changes around everything. And so it's only about 1% of people who somehow increase their level of physical activity after such a diagnosis. So we can do better there. Yeah. Plus add fiber to your diet, maybe consume fish, consider drinking coffee if you're not like other things for colorectal cancer risk reduction. All right. Final study. This is my favorite one of this particular batch. This is titled Zone to Intensity, a critical comparison of individual variability in different submaximal exercise intensity boundaries. Heck of a title, heck of a paper. This was published by Mike Snir et al. and a research group out of Germany. It was published in the translational sports medicine journal February 2025 issue. This spoke to my soul. It spoke to my soul because there's been a lot of hype around zone two cardio, for example. And I think that most people do not appreciate the limitations we have at actually identifying, yep, this is definitively zone two. And maybe it's importance. Like, and so, because people just say, oh, zone two, it's this heart rate, for example, I'm like, oh, for everybody? Just right. And there's no consideration of like individual characteristics. Are you sure? How confident are you in that? They're like, ah, I'm pretty confident. I'm like, okay, maybe that should, maybe you should adjust that. All right. So let's talk about some background information here. In conditioning, intensity refers to the metabolic demand of the activity. Now, whether expressed in absolute or relative terms, intensity determines the nature of the physiological stress and individual experiences during exercise, which influences the type of fitness and health adaptations obtained from exercise. For these reasons, exercise prescription should consider intensity based on the expected physiological stress and metabolic demand of the activity for the individual. Now, the current exercise guidelines recommend that all adults complete some combination of at least 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity conditioning each week, where moderate intensity conditioning exercise correlates to 3.0 to 5.9 metabolic equivalents and vigorous intensity activities are greater than six metabolic equivalents. For completeness, the latest adult compendium of physical activity classifies sedentary activities as 1.0 to 1.5 metabolic equivalents, which just for those listening at home, that means there's a gap. What happens between 1.6 and 2.9 metabolic equivalents? What is that? Just a no man's land? No one knows. Right. Is that just light intensity, I guess so, based on the current compendium? So, in a research setting where oxygen consumption can be directly measured, yeah, METs are probably a suitable instrument for characterizing intensity of an activity. They can also be used in conjunction with exercise duration to calculate total conditioning exercise load in metabolic minutes, MET minutes, with the current guidelines targeting a minimum of 500 to 1,000 MET minutes per week for public health. Outside of these settings, however, I don't think either of us would be on board with using MET-based prescriptions. They're often unpredictable between individuals due to differences in fitness levels, age, medical concerns, training experience, economy movement genetics, and more. So, for example, cycling at 10 miles an hour does not result in the same physiological stress in a young elite cyclist compared to an untrained older individual. And that's very intuitive, although there is a study that actually measured that. You can read about that in the show notes below. I linked it there. Lastly, metabolic equivalents are not easy to understand or monitor by patients or physicians. I think if you ask a physician who's, you know, not familiar with exercise prescription, what a metabolic equivalent is, what it stands for, they'd be like, I don't know. Something that happens on a stress test is probably the answer that you would get from them. 100%. So, there are a number of other parameters that correlate with exercise intensity, like heart rate, blood lactate levels, oxygen consumption rate, and respiration rate, breathing rate, to name a few. And so, we can think about the intensity of conditioning exercise to be this continuum, ranging from rest to maximal with light, moderate, and vigorous intensity exercise in between. There are a number of thresholds on this continuum that may be useful for exercise prescription. So, the first threshold that I want to discuss is the transition between non-exercise physical activity and exercise. Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by the musculoskeletal system that results in energy expenditure above the basal metabolic rate, whereas exercise in contrast is a subcategory of physical activity that is planned, goal directed towards improving physical fitness. Most activities of daily life would count as physical activity, not exercise. It has been suggested that exercise activities start at about 50% of someone's VO2 max or 60% of their maximum heart rate. For the five zone model of conditioning, right, where zone two has kind of gotten all this hype, this would be the start of zone one. So, below this exercise intensity would just be like regular physical activity activities daily life, but it wouldn't count as exercise. Now, the next threshold is the aerobic threshold. And when determined by blood lactate levels, this is sometimes called lactate threshold number one, which occurs at exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise to about two millimoles per liter. Lactate levels are otherwise stable because the body is producing and processing it or clearing it at a steady state. Now, when measured by respiratory rates, so how fast someone's breathing, this is called the first ventilatory threshold, since breathing rate has increased compared to resting values. Typical heart rates at this point range between like 65 to 80% of maximal heart rate, although this can vary significantly between individuals. And zone two in the five zone model is right before this threshold. That's important. Remember that. So, right before the aerobic threshold, that's the top of zone two. Once you pass the aerobic threshold, it's probably more zone three in that five zone model. The final threshold that I want to talk about on this continuum going from rest to maximal intensity conditioning exercise is the anaerobic threshold, which occurs at an exercise intensity where blood lactate levels rise even higher as the body is unable to process it quickly enough for removal to keep it at a steady state. Again, when measured by blood lactate levels, this point is also often called lactate threshold number two, and lactate levels are often four millimoles per liter or higher. This point is also called the second ventilatory threshold when measured by the respiratory exchange ratio, which measures the amount of carbon dioxide produced compared to oxygen consumed. Typical heart rates here at this threshold are about 85 to 95% of maximal heart rate, which again varies significantly between individuals. Exercise performed below this anaerobic threshold, but above aerobic threshold, that represents vigorous intensity exercise, whereas exercise above this anaerobic threshold will be considered maximal intensity. So, for your five zone model people, zones three and zone four are below the anaerobic threshold, but above the aerobic threshold, and zone five is above the anaerobic threshold. Just to summarize, exercise starts at around 60% of maximal heart rate, below that's just like regular non-exercise physical activity. This is the start of zone one in the five zone model. Modern intensity exercise is below the aerobic threshold, but above the threshold when exercise begins, this is zones one and two in the five zone model. Vigorous intensity exercise is above the aerobic threshold, but below the anaerobic threshold, again this is zones three and four in the five zone model, and then maximal intensity exercise is above the anaerobic threshold. This is zone five. Does that sound, you're on board with me so far? Tracking. Tracking. All right. So, how does all of this apply to zone training, specifically zone two? Well, there's a bunch of different models here for exercise intensity. There's a three zone, right, light, moderate, vigorous, or heavy. There's a five zone model. We just kind of talked about that in some detail. There are even seven and eight zone models. Now, here's the important thing. There are no agreed upon definitions or cut points for any of these things, which makes it challenging to not only discuss, right, because what I call zone two, somebody else might call zone three, and there's just no like agreed upon consensus here. Other than maybe those aerobic and anaerobic thresholds, those seem to be pretty well agreed upon, but as far as how the zones kind of shake out relative to those thresholds, yeah, that's more controversial at this time. But all the hype around zone two training, as well as this current paper, uses the five zone model, and we'll focus on that. Now, using the five zone model, zone two is considered the aerobic endurance zone. It's typically done continuously, so interval training typically doesn't occur here. It's usually in that RPE three to six range of using a 10 point RPE scale, and it's again below the aerobic threshold. With respect to heart rate, zone two is likely somewhere in the 70 to 80 percent max heart range, maximum heart rate range, but there are large error bars on either side of that, because individuals vary greatly, which is what this paper focuses on. To summarize, this study aimed at analyzing the extent of variability in the most commonly applied reference values for heart rate, blood lactate, and breathing rate for zone two conditioning. They basically took 50 experienced cyclists, 30 women, 20 men, and they had them visit the lab twice. Now, all this this testing was done on bikes, and they basically measured a number of physiological variables that have been used to define zone two intensity in various different research settings. So, for example, they've measured, hey, look, what was the power output at 72 percent of maximum heart rate? What was it at 82 percent of the maximum heart rate? Thinking that 72 to 82 percent, that's zone two, for sure. They measured what was the power output at blood lactate levels of 1.5 millimoles per liter or two millimoles per liter or 2.5 millimoles per liter. Again, trying to figure out, like, what's the power output here? Is it consistent between these different variables? They measured the power output at 65 percent of VO2 peak. Now, I say VO2 peak and people are like, is that VO2 max? It's slightly different because it is the maximum VO2 that was obtained in a particular test, but it's not maybe the maximum VO2 value that someone could ever achieve in any test. So, it's slightly different but related. They also measured what was the power output at the first ventilatory threshold. What about the power output at the maximum fat oxidation rate? Because, in theory, in a perfect world, all of these variables would be pretty close to one another. They'd all have a similar sort of power output because they're all used to define the same thing. They would also be relatively similar between individuals for prescriptive purposes, meaning like a blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter would be at a similar VO2 peak, heart rate, and relative intensity between individuals. Because, if you're going to prescribe zone 2 training, it should be generalizable. Do you want to predict the results of this, Dr. Baraki? I think it'll be the hallmark of human biology, which involves lots of variation. Huge variation between individuals for all of these physiological variables. So, for example, blood lactate of 2 millimoles per liter, which again is mostly accepted to be that sort of aerobic threshold, right? So, just above the top of zone 2. That had an average of an 83% max heart rate. That's what it correlated to, but it ranged from about 75% to 93% of people's heart rate max. So, if someone had a target heart rate, that may not correlate accurately with a blood lactate level of 2. Now, which is better? A blood lactate level of 2? Is that more accurately definitive of zone 2 or is a heart rate more accurate for defining zone 2? At a 72% max heart rate, well, that ranged from 35% peak power to 80% peak power. So, wildly different intensities. If someone had a target wattage to be in zone 2, for example, the heart rate could be all over the place. So, which is better? A target power output, right? Which is like weight on the bar or is it heart rate, which is like a more... Bar velocity. Yeah, right, exactly. And this continues for basically all variables. The percent VO2 peak ranged from 55% to 72%, depending on which other variable was being measured. The power output ranged from 125 to 224 watts for all these different zone 2 criteria within the same group. And again, these are all trained cyclists. So, it's not like you're taking untrained individuals. So, my interpretation of this is that there's huge variance in how people respond to a certain zone 2 prescription. And so, how you define zone 2 influences how zone 2 training is executed, which likely impacts the training adaptations that people are going to get. And I don't know which one is better for the desired training adaptations. Is it better to use a heart rate? Is it better to use a blood lactate? Is it better to use a wattage target? I don't know. But when you look at like endurance athletes...  it's probably speaking especially highly competitive ones. Their training intensity distribution is about 80-20. Now, granted, there's some variance here, depending on the sport, the person, and whatever, the phase of the season. But generally speaking, 80% of the work, the bulk of their work, is done in that zone one, zone two zone, those zones, lower intensity type stuff, whereas 20% is higher intensity. There is some evidence that doing more zone two work compared to zone one work might be better for performance. So, theoretically, it could make a hedge that I'd really want to find out what zone two is, so I could do most of my low intensity conditioning there rather than zone one. But I don't know how to prescribe it. Yeah. It's like by one variable, you could be quote-unquote in zone two, and then if you measured another variable, it might be wildly outside of it. And so which one do you prioritize or pick? You could make an argument of just pick one and stick with it. You could make an argument of measure all of them and see how well they correlate. And then to the extent that you have tight correlations, then maybe you can run with some combination of these things. I don't know what the pros or cons of this would be outside of just like if you have some consistent tool that you were using and you are progressing as evidenced by that metric over time, meaning that like it's like in strength training, if we prescribe a lift at a seven RPE and the weight you can lift at a seven RPE goes up, then you have demonstrated some progress. Whereas if you switch, you know, your outcome measures, then you don't know as much whether you have progressed. So some measure of consistency with which tool you were using might be the more important variable than which one you pick given that they may or may not correlate in an individual person. Yeah. I mean, I actually think that the analogy to resistance training is perfect here. So like if you're trying to prescribe zone two conditioning, it's the same as trying to prescribe a particular exertion during resistance training. So a couple of different ways to do it. You could use tests, some sort of test to come up with like a quote functional threshold for conditioning. It'd be like equivalent to like a one rep max test, right? With lifting. So this functional threshold, one of the tests that we prefer is this field test. Get on a bike, treadmill, whatever, you go 20 minutes hard. And the idea is to what is the maximum pace you can sustain for 20 minutes? What's your average heart rate throughout that kind of tells you your functional threshold? That's basically telling you like this is your anaerobic threshold. And so you can come up with heart rate percentages based on that functional threshold test and you can make your own chart for zone one, zone two, zone three, zone four, zone five. That's kind of how we do it with our general strength conditioning templates or other conditioning focused templates. So that's a test. It compared to barbell training, you test somebody's one rep max and you'd be like, look, we're going to program you to do 70% or five sets of four, for example. We know that none of those sets are going to be maximal, right? Just because you're so far away from failure, but they're all heavy enough to drive strength improvement. And we feel pretty good that you're unlikely to be too light. Just as we're pretty confident you're unlikely to be too heavy and causing too much fatigue, that's one way to do it. You could also guess and use a bunch of some number of different variables without doing any sort of testing. This is like, again, if you've never tested somebody's one rep max and strength training, so how would you go about prescribing below that they should lift? And similar to our use of RPE, we care more about precision than accuracy. Meaning that you're using the same method to sort of gauge your effort and exertion compared to it being bang on spot on, because there's a relatively wide range of sort of effective intensities, even within zone two. You don't need to be at the very top of zone two to make it maximally effective. And you don't need to be at the very bottom of zone two to make it minimally fatiguing. Somewhere in the middle is fine. It needs to be similarly hard as the target. Yeah, exactly. And so there are a bunch of different ways that you can do this. So for example, you could use RPE somewhere in that RPE four to six range. Now, if someone's like, well, I don't know what that means. And I'm like, OK, well, maybe that's not the best thing for you to use in isolation. But if I say RPE four to six, which requires your attention to maintain that pace, but it's kind of boring, it's not very hard. And oh, by the way, you should probably be somewhere in like 65 to 80% of your maximum heart rate. And oh, by the way, if you have any sort of like maximum power test that you've recently done, it should be about 40% to 50% of your peak power. Oh, and we can add like a ventilatory threshold, a breathing rate sort of test. So these are talk tests, for example. So basically, with a talk test, you have an individual who is exercising to recite a paragraph that takes about 10 to 15 seconds to complete. In the US, we commonly use the Pledge of Allegiance. You just try to say that while you're exercising. And then as soon as the passage is completed, you basically ask yourself, can I still speak comfortably? If the answer is yes, the result is positive. You're probably not intense enough to be right near that aerobic threshold. But if the answer is no, or if you're unsure, then it's like, okay, I'm definitively within zone two. I'm close to that that ventilatory threshold number one, which is good enough to be close to the top of zone two. And so you could use all of these. You could use one of them. You could use a couple of them, whatever you want. But it's more important, again, that you use the same method each time, rather than being super, super accurate, because you don't need to pinpoint the top of zone two or the bottom of zone two. Just be in the middle. Yep. Yep, similar concept to strength training. There's a range. Your body does not robustly respond to a load that is a kilo heavier or a kilo lighter, or even two kilos, or maybe even five kilos, or whatever the case is. Just there's a wide range. Being somewhere in the range, given how much variability and uncertainty and inaccuracy or imprecision there is around a lot of these measures, then do the best you can. And again, if it's staying similarly hard and your performance within that range of similarly hard is improving over time, then you are improving. Yeah. Yeah, one of the methods I like the best is the counting talk test. So you have somebody take a maximal breath in, and then as they're, after that, they count aloud using their typical talking pace, one, one thousand, two, one thousand, three, one thousand, et cetera, until they have to take another breath, the final number that they say before the first breath is recorded. Then you do the same test while they're doing exercise. And if you get to a value that's about half of what your at rest, the counting talk test is, great. Your smack dab in the middle of zone two, you're good to go. If it's more than that, I have concerns that you're in zone three. You've passed the aerobic threshold. And if it's about the same as what it was at rest, I have concerns that you're either at the beginning of zone one or maybe not even exercising at all. So that's one easier way to do it. But again, some people are going to say this and like, just give me a heart rate zone. And I'm like, well, it's going to be wide, too wide to probably use. Right? Because if you just try to get to 80% of your max heart rate, I'm like, I don't know if you're zone three, maybe trickling into some like zone four stuff, or you could be definitively within zone two. It just depends. Yeah, I don't know. It's just, when people talk about zone two training, I always want to ask them, like, what do you mean? Yeah. And like, how are you defining it? Because again, there's not really an agreed upon set of criteria that is generalizable to everyone or even most people outside of using ranges that are too wide to be useful. It's like saying, you should lift weights. And it should be done, but somewhere over 65% of your heart rate max. And you're like, that range is too wide to actually execute. Right? You're like, could I just date 65% of perpetuity? Should I ever go, is 75% better than 65%? What about 80%? I don't know, man. Yeah. And a lot of that is like, to what end? Like, what is the intended outcome of this training? Right? So if it's for general health purposes, then you could. But the other implication there is how much of it do you need to do to get the most benefit out of it? Right? So there's actually probably not anything wrong with doing an overwhelming majority, if not all of your, you know, aerobic conditioning at a very low intensity. Let's call it zone one. But like, if you want to actually enjoy as much health benefit as you can out of that, you need to be doing probably many, many, many hours of that per week, like an enormous volume of very low intensity stuff. If you do not have the time to do that, and you want to be getting, you know, all the health benefits you can out of your conditioning, then you might actually need to bump it up a little bit into a different intensity range for the amount of time that you're willing to put into it. I think that you and I would agree, like, hey, if we were back in our, you know, medical training period, and we were severely restricted on time, but we wanted to keep some conditioning in. As much as they're not my favorite thing to be doing, I'd be doing some pretty high intensity type conditioning work with the minimal time that I had available to me. Now my life is in a somewhat different position, and the amount of time that I have available to train is also different. And so I do a fair amount more lower intensity stuff because the trade costs are more favorable. I'm willing to spend the time. I actually don't mind it. And it reduces the fatigue cost so I can spend that fatigue on other things, like, you know, training or doing other sports and activities and things like that. So I think that's like the practical implication of why anyone should care about this is if you think you are following a particular protocol, if you think you're in a particular zone, you might not be getting as much as you think out of your training. If you were, say, you're far lower than that, and in order to get that benefit, you might need to double how much training volume you're doing. You might be kind of fooling yourself on that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, just to do one more analogy to resistance training, I think for most folks who are not currently resistance training, my biggest concern is that they start doing resistance training. And then after that, I'm like, I want to make sure it's hard enough, right? And then within that kind of consideration, I also want to make sure I'm more concerned that it would be too hard rather than not hard enough. And so there's just such a wide range that I don't know that you have to get super, super accurate on this stuff until performance becomes your ultimate goal. But within that, it's going to be so individualized. Like you, for example, prefer lower intensity strength training than I do. I just respond a little bit better to higher intensity stuff. There's going to be that in conditioning too. And I think people who take their conditioning outcomes for performance very, very seriously likely do need advanced instrumentation, whether it's you're doing a lactate test while you're in the field, whether you've got a power output monitor, you're using heart rate stuff. I think that would be more useful for health. I'm more concerned that people doing this, again, it's not too hard, not too easy. And we've given you guys some tools to kind of implement that. Yeah, I like it. Good tips. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the 2025 June research review. Again, we talked about do heavy walkouts work in the squat. And not really. We talked about does exercise reduce cancer recurrence, for colorectal cancer by 40%. It's probably an embellishment. And what defines zone 2 cardio, still shoulder shrug emoji, there's too many different things and it varies. Before you guys go anywhere, please visit a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast. We can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Episode #378： Bulletproof or Broken- Why 'Perfect Form' Is a Lie [WtrZbHNq9KQ].txt ===

 we've all seen the videos. An influencer draws red lines on a freeze frame of a squat, circling a butt wink or a knee caving in and they scream, snap city. They tell you that one degree of deviation is the difference between a healthy spine and a blown disc. They sell you on the idea that the human body is a fragile machine. It's like a car. And if your alignment is off, well, you're going to wear out your parts. Because of this, 40% of healthy people say that they would exercise more if they weren't afraid of getting hurt. They spend 20 minutes warming up the rotator cuffs, they obsess over a neutral spine. And I want to be clear right off the top, if you are one of these people, if you're terrified to round their back during a deadlift, or if you spend 30 minutes doing rehab exercises for a hip that isn't injured, that's not your fault. You aren't being irrational. You are having a perfectly normal response to the information that you've been fed. If a doctor tells you that your spine is crumbling, or an influencer tells you that one bad rep will herniate a disc, the smart thing to do is to be scared. The problem isn't you. The problem is that you have been lied to by an industry that profits from your fragility. They sell you a solution to a problem that you don't have. But here's the uncomfortable truth. The scientific literature suggests that these obsession-inducing flaws in technique have almost zero correlation with actual injury risk. In fact, by obsessing over safety, you might actually be making yourself more fragile. Today, we're going to dismantle the body as a machine myth. We're going to look at the hard data on injury rates during exercise, and by the end of this episode, we're going to give you the single most important variable for staying healthy. And I promise you, it has nothing to do with your posture. And to help me break everything down, I'm joined by the second-most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm excited for this one. This is a topic we've been ranting and raving about for a very long time, getting into arguments with folks about frequently. And it's one that affects pretty much everyone. So, yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, injury risk during exercise. Heated topic. I mean, I think this was one of our first little pops in the fitness space, and it is kind of interesting that we haven't published the de facto injury risk and exercise article. This is our first dedicated podcast to it, although we've had a bunch of pain and injury rehab management stuff, and we're even circling this. But let's get into it. So, before we tear it down, we do have to admit why the mechanical model is so popular. And that's because it makes intuitive sense. So let's start with everyone's favorite metaphor for the human body, the car. If you drive a car with the wheels out of the alignment, the tires and suspension components will wear unevenly and fail. It's just logical to assume that human joints work the same way. If you go one step further, shear forces and compressive forces are real things. If you lift a weight with a rounded back, the spine is exposed to the same forces as doing the movement with a neutral spine, but in a different way. Specifically, the anatomical orientation has changed, and that's a fact. Next, many people have the direct experience of hurting themselves while lifting. If you feel a pop while your back was rounded during a deadlift, your brain can create a powerful protective association. Rounded back equals danger. And this can also happen secondhand, like when people learn from influential people in their life. Austin, can you talk about this sort of like social conditioning, surrounding pain and injury? Yeah, it's super common. I mean, this is something that social learning is a phenomenon that starts probably when we're infants. You know, we are constantly observing and learning and taking cues from the world around us. And some things we learn and we end up avoiding out of observing others' experiences. Some things, particularly among the maybe less bright or more confident among us, we feel like we end up having to learn for ourselves. But if you are anywhere in public, particularly among where there's a dynamic of say parents and kids and a kid falls and then you see how, you know, how does the parent react? How does the kid react? How does that? That's like the quintessential interaction that illustrates this type of phenomenon. And those things carry forward throughout life. There's research into what are the impacts, for example, of like parental thoughts, beliefs and behaviors around pain, and how does that translate and impact the child's behaviors or their future risk, for example, of disability from pain or pain intensity and outcomes and things like that. So there's a lot of really interesting relationships. So next time you're interacting with someone, it could be a layperson, it could be a healthcare professional, it might be interesting to observe what are the things that they're saying or what are the things that I'm observing and how does that impact, you know, the way I go about things? To what extent does this fit my beliefs or conflict with my beliefs? And yeah, so that's kind of been our observations doing this in practice for a long time now. Yeah, I mean, medicine itself has been doing this for years, you know, to tell patients that their joints are wearing out or they make some other car analogy, you know, and then this is related to their pain, you know. One leg is three millimeters shorter than the other and that's what's causing your pain. There's actually some interesting data on this. There's a study by Sechel that surveyed individuals with low back pain who believed that their pain was permanent, right? So they just surveyed them and they were like, well, why do you believe this? Nearly 90% of them reported that they learned those specific beliefs from health professionals. And, you know, we just call this iatrogenic harm, which is a fancy way of saying we, the doctors, we did this to you. And we hear this from other people all the time, either on our forums, when they email us, when we see them at seminars. You know, a doctor told me I have the spine of an 80 year old or I have bone on bone knees. Yeah, you know, I want to apologize on the behalf of our profession. We have failed you. These are lazy metaphors, you know, using wear and tear is kind of like a shortcut. It's easy to explain that way, but it's not true. And unfortunately, in doing so, we've created a generation of people who are like terrified to move their own bodies. And one of the most interesting examples here is osteoarthritis, because one of the best things you can do for an individual who has osteoarthritis is get them to start exercising. But many of these people have an understanding that it's wear and tear. It's bone on bone or whatever. Do you see that at all with people you interact with? 100%. I mean, it ends up being one of my most common recommendations, but because of how prevalent these ideas are. And, you know, having experience doing this and falling on my face early on multiple times during the conversation, I've almost learned to preempt that concern, right? So people, when they're faced with this kind of recommendation to, you know, increase our level of exercise, maybe even like lift some weights, potentially things like that. It is automatically coming into direct conflict with their existing understanding, because it presents an incoherent recommendation. And you're like, well, if this is a wear and tear thing, then how are you telling me to go wear on it more? Right? But that's the reason we see consistent evidence of benefit from this is because that simple wear and tear explanation is in fact not the correct one. There are certainly situations where there are biomechanical variables that have some relevance to somebody's pain experience to include things like osteoarthritis. But it is also impacted by so many other variables and heavily impacted by the person's general health, for example. And so we know that when we can get somebody's general health status better, for example, losing body fat, getting them sleeping better, getting them more active, addressing, you know, inflammatory conditions, things like that, that a lot of pain issues tend to improve, even if they're doing more activity than ever. And you would think that, oh, if it's just wear and tear, then the more activity than ever should, you know, cause things to worsen or progress, regardless of all the other health benefits that they get out of it. And that's actually not what we observe. We get people feeling better regularly. Or if they end up still, for example, needing to undergo some sort of osteoarthritis surgery like a knee replacement, they have better outcomes after surgery, the better shape they go into surgery with. So there's all sorts of reasons why this is worth pursuing. Yeah. And, you know, the problem is it's not just doctors anymore doing this. It's all over social media. So I want to bring up this thought like a social media virus. Yeah, sure. Words like crumbling or bad alignment from physicians or healthcare providers to their patients. Sure. Fear avoidance behaviors as a result. That's pretty easy to understand. But there's this social learning aspect that's going on en masse in social over social media, because there's research showing that if you watch someone else act terrified of a stimulus, you can become sensitized to it. So on Instagram, you have the influencer screaming snap city. That's the model that you see. They're socially transmitting this fear response to you. And there's even something to like the red lines, the stupid stuff you see or like a atom bomb explosion, nuclear explosion, because we know that visual cues can modulate pain. There are experiments out there, red versus blue experiments where they use a red cue that has increased pain perception, even when the physical stimulus was identical to the blue stimulus. We associate red with more pain. So those red lines on Instagram, I don't stop like a default sort of color that pops up. They chose it, presumably because they also understand that red means bad or pain. It's a cultural, it's a shared cultural understanding. I mean, obviously those types of those types of studies have all sorts of reasons to tear them apart, but there are kind of socially and culturally mediated cues that when invoked can lead to this kind of shared understanding building. Yeah, it ends up being like a threat to that red line. Oh, you're out of alignment here or whatever it just hacking your visual cortex in a way. And so I thought, you know, what is this like socially transmitted kinesophobia? Yeah, it totally is. And whether from social media or from other aspects of this kind of messaging and what we'll call the narratives or the stories that we tell ourselves or tell our patients around certain conditions, whether it relates to the mechanics of a lift or some, you know, alignment factor on social media or something clinically that I end up seeing is oftentimes in people who are diagnosed with osteopenia or osteoporosis. And when the explanation of it is given to them as you have quote unquote brittle bones, the same thing happens when you say, but one of the best things that we can do from a lifestyle standpoint for you is load bearing exercise and the person just like with that knee knee osteoarthritis examples like this is an incoherent condition based upon the explanation that you have provided to me. And so same thing the way that I talk about that condition to patients from the jump is completely different. I never use those phrases. Rather, I emphasize the adaptability of bone to stimulus and frame it as well. And so that unfortunately lacks sufficient stimulus through your lifespan to this point, leading us to where it is, but fortunately it can still respond to stimulus moving forward as can the rest of your body and so that ends up being a much more cohesive narrative for somebody that can then support the intended behavior change rather than being in conflict that is irreconcilable. Yeah, they have to you have to unlearn the patients have to unlearn these things. Yeah, I don't think the influencers are helping when they scream snap city or they're drawing red lines. And you know, if I'm being very critical of this, I don't think they're doing this out of the goodness of their heart because they care about your safety. I don't I don't think they're aware of the actual injury rates in from exercise. I think they just want to sell you something and they know that fear sells, whether they outright say that, you know, very boldly or if that's the motivation. If they can convince you that you are incompetent, that you can't send sit down or stand up you can't squat without a degree in biomechanics, then you need them. You need their PDF, you need their mobility course, you need their coaching. Effectively, they're trying to gaslight you into thinking that you're so fragile, you keep on clicking. But that's not what we do here at Barbell Medicine. We're here to tell you that you are robust. You are adaptable. You don't need their permission to move. We are movement optimists. Shout out to Greg Lehmann for that one. Yeah. All right, so we've established that your brain can learn pain from a video. But when we try to look at the actual injury data, we run into a massive roadblock. Nobody can agree on what an injury actually is. And so if we want to discuss injury rates, causes and what to do about them, we have to define what an injury is first, which is actually harder than you might think. But before we get into all the definitions, like just an example of why this matters. So there's a study on volleyball players. This was in an international tournament, I believe in around 2001. And when they defined an injury during this tournament as time loss, meaning that you missed a game, the rate of injuries was 4.1 per 1000 hours. And if they defined it as physical symptoms, so any pain at all, regardless of if you need a medical care or whatever, the rate jumped to 5.8. So what's the true injury rate? And on top of that, that wasn't, you know, an example enough, nearly one third of studies on injury rates during exercise or sport don't actually clearly define what an injury is in their methodology, which makes it hard to interpret their findings. So the takeaway here is that pain alone is probably not a good definition for injury. Missing games or time loss is also probably not a good enough definition for injury. Ultimately, if we're going to talk about injury rates, we need an accurate, consistent, repeatable definition. Otherwise, the data is kind of a mess. So when we look at this, there's no agreed upon consensus for definitions of an activity or even like a sports related injury and medicine isn't much better. For example, you would think it'd be very clear and easy to define what a muscle injury is. So if we look at old data, this is from the 60s, the American Medical Association, they don't normally, they're not usually in the habit of publishing guidelines or whatever, but at the time they were using terms like first, second, and third degree strains, which was effectively a made up sort of system. And they made terms like mildly pulled versus severely pulled with no real criteria there. So that's the 60s. If you fast forward to now, most of the proposed definitions or criteria for a muscle injury are based on MRI findings. So you've got the British athletics system, FC Barcelona, Coen chant, a number of studies are all linked in the show notes below, but effectively these are MRI based proposals for defining what a muscle specific injury is. The paradox here is you can have a grade zero injury, which is quote MRI negative. So the MRI looks normal or clean, but the athlete is in pain and they can't run, for example. And the data is kind of mixed on this, like while MRI negative injuries do tend to heal faster, the specific MRI grade, and we're talking about muscle tears, for example, doesn't always predict return to play. There's, it's pretty messy. We're trying to force a biological sort of event into a neat spreadsheet, but you can be injured, have a functional loss without tissue damage, and you can have signs of tissue damage or changes without being injured. It's just more complicated than that. So that brings us back to our definition. We've kind of over the years come up with our own injury definition, and there's three really criteria to this. So the first is you have to have a reduction in sport performance or physical performance due to training and or sport for a significant period of time. In this case, the term significant is specific to the sport and may vary from seconds, for example, you got your poked in the eye during the MMA fight or something like that, two days or weeks, for example. So it really has to be sport specific. So that's thing one, thing two, you need to have subjective pain or discomfort and or objective neurological deficits that occur in the context of sport training or competition. So it has to come from sport or practice or exercise. So an example of neurological deficits would be like post concussive syndrome. Practitioner should also inquire about the use of like pain medications. So people might be using those to like mask this pain or discomfort. Right. So that's the second thing. And then the third thing is that training and or competition schedule should be modified to reflect a change in goals or prioritized outcomes, something that's significant. So we're kind of combining time loss, physical symptoms, and also just a reduction in performance, right? Because there's just multiple things going on here. That's our proposed definition. This is subject to change. Perhaps some people smarter than us will come up with a unagreed upon consensus definition of sports injury. But to date, that doesn't really exist. Now, even if you do agree with our definition, you're like, you know, I kind of like that. I'm going to start using that. Well, that's great. The problem is none of the research to date uses that definition. So Austin, we just spent, you know, 10 minutes explaining how injury is a dumpster fire of a definition. Some studies count a stubbed toe. That's actually true. There's some pediatric data that kids stubbed his toe in the gym. They counted that as an injury. Others only counted if you need surgery. So here's the million potentially billion dollar question. If the definitions for an injury are this messy and again, about a third of studies don't even provide a definition for an injury. Can we even trust the injury data? When we say that powerlifting or resistance training in general has about a two to four injuries per thousand hours rate? Isn't that number kind of worthless? If nobody can agree on what an injury is, how do we reconcile this mess so that we can actually give the listeners a straight answer? Yeah, that makes our job super difficult for anyone out there who is intending to or trying to rely on data or evidence to make claims about injury risk. I think that you should take a breath and pause before you make your claims and first make sure you understand what were the definitional criteria used in that study that you are citing. And does that apply to the population you're talking to or to the context that you're talking about? This is a common problem in the clinical realm in general. It's a whole subfield. If you've never heard of it, it's called gnosology. Not the study of noses, but rather the classification of diseases and their diagnostic criteria and things like that. And so this is not isolated to this issue of injury risk. When we look at, I mean, many, many people have probably seen, for example, conspiracy theories on the internet about like, you know, well, in decades ago, the normal range for blood cholesterol was this and now it's this. Of course, it's framed through the lens of, well, they just want to, you know, sell you more drugs or whatever the case is, which is not accurate. But that reflects the changing diagnostic criteria, which then impacts what is, for example, the prevalence of this condition. And how common it is, is impacted by how are you diagnosing it? The same thing when it comes to diagnosing heart attacks. The blood test that we use to diagnose heart attacks has changed dramatically even from when, you know, we were going through medical school to then what we call these high sensitivity tests, which now they're on like, I think, a fifth generation high sensitivity test. And so we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well, we would be saying, well I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying, well, I would be saying in the literature, right? On the other hand, if we're trying to just compare averages between different activities, the data actually is fine, even though it's imperfect. We have these messy definitions. Yes, full marks to that. That is a caveat. But if you zoom out, the hierarchy of risk is still pretty consistent, meaning that despite the problems with definitions, the trends are there regardless of how you slice up the pie. We know, for example, that running has a consistently higher risk of injury than lifting weights. We know that soccer has a consistently higher risk than running and lifting, no matter how injury is defined. So even though the definitions may be imperfect, they may be, as you said, heterogeneous, it doesn't really change the trends in the data. So we can use these even though they're imperfect. It is fair to say, look, the injury data is a mess, but that doesn't mean that you have to throw it out. It doesn't have to be perfect for us to use it. Do you agree with that? Right. Yeah, that's what I mean. You just have to look at it more closely. And a lot of people might be content to look at an abstract and see the results of the conclusion and toss it out there without scrutinizing a little bit more closely to make sure it's like, am I understanding this correctly? How they defined it and how that applies? Does that match my understanding of injury? If I'm going to be using this data to make claims about injury, to make, definitely to make recommendations about injury, just, yeah, you have to look closer. Yeah. So even if the ruler is slightly bent, we can still measure who's tallest. So let's look at the actual scoreboard. The public thinks that the gym is a minefield, but the data says that it's one of the safest places in town. So injury rates are typically reported per 1000 hours of participation. While people think that deadlifts are inherently dangerous and running is safe, the data doesn't really bear that out. So for example, walking and cycling tend to have injury rates of about 0.2 injuries per 1000 participation hours. Bodybuilding specifically has an injury rate of about 0.2 to 1 injury per 1000 participation hours. Powerlifting is 1 to 4, running on average is around 10 to over 10. Novice runners tend to be higher at about 17.8, whereas experienced recreational runners are about 8. But all of those pale in comparison to contact sports like soccer or rugby, which range from like 15 to over 80 injuries per 1000 participation hours. Although I will have to tip my cap to my sport of choice, which is motocross, which to my knowledge has the highest injury rate of any sport that's been documented. It's greater than 90, which maybe tells you something about how well my brain works. But here's an interesting thing. There was a randomized trial of sedentary adults or insufficiently active adults. They basically took adults, split them into two groups. One group did six hours of cardio a week. The other group just continued not really to exercise. And after a year, the injury rate was nearly identical at 28%. You have a non-zero risk of injury by just existing as a human. So you might as well get strong while you do it. Austin, do you like this analogy, this thing between like comparing the gym as being like a safe neighborhood versus a different sport like soccer is like a war zone? Do you see that analogy where people consider soccer is like, ah, that's probably pretty safe, but the gym is dangerous, but they really have this thing kind of flipped? Yeah, I have mixed feelings about that. I definitely think that that is a common conception. Nobody really bats an eye, for example, if somebody say you're at work and you meet some coworkers and they say, oh, we're going to go to like our pickup rec soccer league or something like that. And nobody would bat an eye at that. But if you tell them like, hey, I'm going to go to the gym, it's my like heavy deadlift day or something like that. And they'll be like, oh, be careful. Right. So that is certainly baked into the culture and super, super comment. Now my aim to correct that would not necessarily be to invert the thing and to say, now we need to tell the person who says they want to go pick up play pickup soccer to say, oh, be careful out there. Right. Because we're still going to be in favor of activity. It's going to be a matter of dosage. And are you prepared for doing the thing that you're trying to do? So I still am not going to be interested in like, you know, demonizing certain activities, but rather de stigmatizing those that, you know, where that where the data that we do have is not nearly supportive of the level of concern that people commonly and just culturally tend to express about it. Yeah. And you would think about the factors or the elements in a gym, all of the variables are very controllable. The environment is sterile. You can pick the exercises, you can pick the weight, you can pick the movement speed, you can pick the amount of exercise you're doing. And oh, by the way, when you're going to squat or do a leg press or bench press, no one's coming to like knock you over. Right. It's pretty sterile. On the other hand, on the soccer field, even if you're like, okay, I'm only going to play, you know, 30 minutes, whatever, you're limiting your time, you're doing these things intelligently so you don't get an overuse injury, something like that. Well, you can still get clipped by another player. It's just unpredictable. It's messy or dirty, as as Dr. Derek Miles would say. So I just think it's an interesting way the public kind of used these things really opposite of how they how they are. But I agree, we should not be demonizing activities. And speaking of demonized activities, we do have to talk about the elephant in the room CrossFit. I mean, we have been critical about the actual programming of CrossFit's workouts as far as do this do these things like fit an individual's goals. But the reputation that it's gotten is that it's a meat grinder. And we got to fact check that everyone assumes that if you do high rep snatches or you do these Metcons or whatever that you're going to explode. But Austin, does the data actually support the idea that CrossFit is uniquely dangerous compared to something like powerlifting or weightlifting? Yeah, honestly, not really. And this is borne out by several studies and metas that have been done over the years. I know that there was, you know, some publication and some even some legal wrangling around this stuff, you know, over the past 15 years or so. But to some extent, we also run into similar definitional challenges. On one hand, we have the challenges of defining injury. Here, we also have the challenge of defining what CrossFit is and then kind of, you know, integrating those two things to decide like what are we even talking about what counts here. And honestly, I don't think that there's any even though CrossFit is a, you know, a unique brand that got super popular, it seems to be relatively less so at this point compared with the past. It's something that is a form of exercise that just like as I guess we're kind of cutting to the to the chase here a little bit, like any other that we talk about, it has to do with the balance of what is the stimulus and the stress of what you're trying to do compared with the level of stimulus or stress that you are prepared to tolerate. And so based on some of those studies that have looked at it, their injury rates between two to three ish injuries per thousand participation hours. Now, I suspect that if we looked and scrutinized that data super closely, there would probably be a relatively broad range, you know, kind of around those like, you know, averages that were determined from each of those studies, because CrossFit can look like so many different things, right? And you have such a broad demographic that actually took it up and engaged it. But that range, if you'll recall, is pretty similar to what we cited for powerlifting injury rates, weightlifting injury rates, things like that. But if you're talking about a beginner, just getting into it versus if you're talking to a, you know, competitive CrossFit games athlete versus a weekend warrior CrossFit athlete who doesn't do anything during the weekend and goes in for the hero wild on the weekends, like these are all very different contexts to be looking at. And I suspect would relate to different levels of injury risk. Yeah. In fact, so a number of the studies have actually looked at people at a CrossFit gym and doing CrossFit programming as prescribed by that gym. And I think most people would sign off. That's probably CrossFit. And there does seem to be a signal in novices that people who are new to CrossFit do seem to have a higher rate, somewhere around nine, for about the first eight weeks. To me, and you can weigh in on this, that seems mostly like a load management thing. Either people are really excited or the dosing of exercise is being given to them is just something they're unprepared for. It's not that the exercise is selected or the way that the workouts are programmed themselves are inherently bad. It's just that they're dosed inappropriately for these relatively untrained individuals. They're not kind of fit for that test. Does that seem right to you? Yeah, I think I'm throwing this back to our friend Greg Lehman here again, who said something to the effect of exercise preparation, Trump's exercise quality, or movement preparation, Trump's movement quality. So being prepared for the thing you're trying to do is what's most important. And then even when you're maximally prepared, there's obviously still some risk of fluke things happening, especially if it's in a contact setting. But the lack of preparation going into it, combined with maybe the nature of the programming and then the exacerbation of, I don't know if they're still playing like dubstep music overhead and having a social environment and people yelling and trap slapping and encouraging each other to push potentially even further beyond what they're ready for. So that is a reasonable way to explain this kind of early observation. If people had a more clear, I mean, I know that there are plenty of gyms out there that have this sort of on ramp type program where they do aim to prepare people more thoroughly for these types of things. And then potentially the way that their introductory programming goes can also be used to mitigate some of this risk would be my hypothesis. Yeah, yeah. Initial sessions at RP 8 versus RP 10. That competitive environment can be not only addictive from like a social setting thing, which is probably good for like participation. But if you're pushing to failure too often, particularly too soon, if you're not ready for it, yeah, I mean, kind of a recipe for what you see here. And there's also a slightly increased risk of a rabdomylysis, which is something we've talked about on this podcast a number of times. And again, I think that's mostly from the competitive setting, also potentially some heat stress if you're in a warehouse.  and it's not really well ventilated, AC, that sort of thing. And the duration, because a lot of classes by default are an hour. And so again, if you're a beginner and you're getting into this and you're not habitually used to exertion for an hour, then that's a way, you know, but if we restricted you early on and said your first workout's gonna be, you know, 10 or 15 minutes, max, obviously the shorter the workout is, the more intensity you might tolerate. But if you jump into an hour session and like most of it is at least moderate, if not high intensity for that time, lack of preparation, yeah, you're gonna end up, you know, with the more severe case of delayed onset muscle soreness that we call RAPDO. Yeah, there you go. All right, now there's one final disconnect that we need to fix. So when influencers talk about injuries, they typically describe them like car crashes. If you round your back, your disc is gonna explode. If your knee caves, you're gonna tear a meniscus. They paint a picture of acute catastrophic failure. But when we actually look at the epidemiology of lifting injuries, that doesn't really match reality. Sure, in contact sports like football or soccer, yes, you can see acute trauma. Someone tackles you, bone breaks, yeah, that's the car crash. But in the gym, the vast majority of injuries are chronic overuse injuries. It's tendinopathy, it's a muscle strain. It's a nagging ache that developed over three weeks because you increased volume too fast. And so the available data actually shows that the average symptom duration for injuries from exercise, specifically resistance training is less than two weeks. If they were catastrophic structural failures, blown discs, torn ligaments, people would be out for six to 12 months. They would need surgery. Some sort of medical intervention, but these things tend to resolve in less than two weeks without seeing a doctor, which suggests that these are largely fatigue-related issues and not structural explosions. Get rid of the mushroom cloud, get rid of the red line. Seems to be more of an overuse chronic thing or fatigue-mediated injury. Is that the way you understand this stuff? That reflects most of our experience, myself doing consults and working with people in this setting as well as our rehab team. The vast majority of the time, we start out our conversations, tell me how'd you end up here? Tell me your story. And then it ends up being, oh, I got this ache or this pain here. And I think back to what my training looked like and started to come on during this period of time. And then it got exacerbated because of this and gradually progressed anyway. And it usually is what we'll call at least subacute to potentially even chronic type syndrome. Certainly some things, everything starts suddenly at some point, right? It's just a matter of how severe it is at onset, that often motivates people to seek care more quickly or to like tolerate it, work through it, work around it for longer periods of time. But a huge proportion of what we deal with are the little bit more nagging, persistent type issues. And the more acute ones, they tend to either declare themselves as obviously catastrophic upfront, as rare as those are, those tend to be much more apparent right away when they're to that degree. And if they're not in that category, then they tend to be ones that actually get better quite quickly, interestingly. Yeah, to me, all this fear mongering about shear forces and micro tears is treating a deadlift with a rounded back, like it could be a car wreck. But in reality, the risk profile is much more like getting a blister. If you hike too far in new boots, you can get a blister. It hurts, you change your shoes, that's load management here, and then it heals and you go on hiking. You don't need surgery for a blister and you don't need to be terrified of hiking, you just need to break the boots in slower next time. You know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning, and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, figs make scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus, they're antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. Figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers. They make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet. And they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an ice box. And with the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because Figs just dropped a ton of new limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare, you want to shop for a loved one who is, Figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at wearfigs.com with the code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com code FIGSRX. With a state of today's economy, it's more important than ever to invest in products that last for years to come. As a season shift and get cooler, make sure your closet is stocked with durable layers that stand the test of time from American giant. American giants clothes work harder and are wearable season after season. Their greatest hoodie ever made is made from the highest quality materials that are cut and sewn right here in the United States. So you're investing right back in your local community. Choosing American giant means taking a stand for American manufacturing and hardworking Americans. Something other mega corporations don't care about. From fleece to knit all in a range of colors for versatile daily wear, American giant delivers everyday pieces designed for everyday life. Feel the difference of quality made to last clothes from American giants. Get 20% off your first order with code STAPLE20 at american-giant.com. That's 20% off your first order at american-giant.com with code STAPLE20. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year's over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards Barbo Medicine Coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit by the way. Your accountant will approve and your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not ride away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long-term health and performance instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to barbomedicine.com, choose your plan and at checkout, select Flex Pay with HSA, FSA. Because those dollars were meant to make you healthier and that's exactly what we do. Barbo Medicine, evidence-based training that pays off, literally. So this is actually the most critical pivot of the episode. We've established that lifting is safe, but people do get hurt and when they do get hurt, they can get an MRI sometimes or a CT or other sort of advanced imaging. They see a bulging disc or a meniscus tear and they think, ah, I found the smoking gun. I found the pain generator. I am broken. Now Austin, over the years, you've pulled some incredible data on asymptomatic populations. These are people who have like terrible MRIs or abnormal findings. The zero pain. So why is an MRI often a liar when it comes to pain here? Yeah, super interesting and super complex topic. I do think the MRI is put up on a pedestal as like this diagnostic gold standard to the extent that it even has a nickname that we often joke about calling it the answer donut because it's a circular shaped machine that you end up kind of getting rolled through to acquire the images. And we know, for example, from the world of back pain data looking at how common it is to find abnormalities, quote unquote, in people's spines who have no back pain. There is admittedly also evidence showing that, well, that might be true, but also people who do have back pain, they might have a slightly higher incidence of some of these findings as well, which is not terribly surprising. But the fact that it is possible to have no symptoms and to have a significant, a really quite high prevalence of certain findings like bulging discs, for example, in upwards of 80, 90% of people once they get to a certain age in life, even if they have no pain, is just, it's an interesting observation that should make us pause and reconsider our overall understanding of this topic. Maybe there is more to this thing that we call a pain experience than just what is going on in the tissues from a visualizable medical imaging standpoint. The other conclusion that I draw from these type of data is also that because pain is a more complex experience, it also means that we can also often help people get better even if we do not normalize, quote, unquote, your imaging. So if we had to repeat an MRI, if we absolutely needed all the imaging findings to resolve, to go away, in order for your symptoms to get better, man, I would feel for rehab professionals. They would have a tough job ahead of them to pull that off, right? But fortunately, we know they get people better all the time, even when their imaging does not necessarily change. We know that a fair amount of these things that we see on imaging are either completely incidental, accidental things that were not pertinent to anything that the person might have felt or might not have felt, or are age-related in the same way that we expect to see people across the lifespan acquire more wrinkles in their skin or more gray hairs and things like that. That's completely unsurprising. We also acquire these things on the inside of our bodies, on our imaging tests like MRIs and CT scans. And then lastly, it could be actually evidence of sport-specific adaptations, which is the really interesting one for folks who are unfamiliar with it. So for example, if you take major league baseball pitchers who obviously throw most of the time with one arm for the duration of their career, lots and lots and lots of high velocity, high force throws, that's their entire job, and you scan their shoulders, even when they have no pain, basically 100% of them have abnormalities in that shoulder that is being used to its maximum capacity day in and day out. Not no pain, no disability, no dysfunction, it's just the fact that the tissue is being used and stressed in a way. It's almost like imagine somebody who has trained their whole life and they have achieved a significant amount of muscle mass growth or muscle hypertrophy, it's an adaptation. If we call that an abnormality, like, oh, you're growing these weird contractile tumors in your skeleton, pathologizing that, calling it a problem when it actually it's an adaptation. So we see the same thing in pitchers, differences in the arms of tennis players who use one arm, or I imagine like bowlers or anybody who uses an extremity, I suspect, in legs and knees of basketball players who are jumping, of soccer players or probably NFL kickers, all of these things that are used and stressed and adapt, they will end up showing abnormalities. The problem is it's also the case that many of these athletes are in sports where they are pushed and maybe beyond their capacity, or might be a contact sport, and maybe they do develop pain in an area, and then you scan them and you find one of these things that might have been there all along anyway. The challenge comes to how do I interpret this? How do I explain it to the person? And then how do I actually aim to rehabilitate them? Do I feel like I have to act on this imaging finding? Or what are the odds that this imaging finding was one of these either age-related things or incidental things or it was an adaptation? But the athlete is at risk of saying, oh, no, like my career is over because I have this thing on my MRI, when really it's just like, nuts, because you're really good at what you do. Yeah, there's a fine line between an adaptive response and a pathological response, and the sort of line in the sand between the two really comes down to the dosing, which we call like load management. So if the dose, if the total training load is something that the person can tolerate and recover from, then they're likely to get an adaptive response. And you might see things on MRIs. You might see vertebral end plate thickening in weight lifters, ACL hypertrophy in weight lifters. For example, the dominant arm, the serving arm in a tennis player is growing longer. You might see these hotspots of active tissue remodeling, abnormalities on imaging that are actually gonna be a feature, not a bug. But if the dosing is too high, if the load management is improper, then that can shift to the other side of the line, which is pathology at that point. And so we need to talk about load management, and we'll use another analogy here that actually kind of works. In my opinion, I'll get your take on this. We're gonna talk about the body like a bank account. So your tissue's capacity is like your bank account balance, and the workout is a withdrawal. You have $1,000 in the bank, that's your capacity, and you try to withdraw $1,200, that's the load, you can get an overdraft fee, which would be like an injury or pain or sort of pathological response. Now the foreign police think that the overdraft happened because you swipe the card with your left hand instead of your right hand, that's technique. We think the overdraft happened because you spent too much too fast. You can spend or lift with quote, bad form, a weird swipe all day long if the transaction is small enough, $5. But the reason that we can increase the budget is because unlike a car, we are adaptable. This is the sort of death of this wear and tear body as a machine myth. So I thought this other analogy that you might like is this callus versus brake pad. We do all this car stuff, right? So if you drive your car every day, the brake pads get used every day, they get thinner until they wear out and they break, right? But if you rub your skin like with the barbell every day, it doesn't get thinner until it breaks. In fact, it gets thicker, you develop a callus. And like I said, weight lifters have larger ACLs and denser bones. These are adaptive responses, they are not pathological responses. But pop science and influencers treat your discs and knees like brake pads. We treat them like calluses. You need to stress the body appropriately with the right dose to build this armor. The only danger is rubbing so hard that you get a blister that's too much too soon before the callus one. Hey, it's Jordan here cutting in from the editor's desk. Now we just talked about the bank account analogy and building a callus instead of a blister. Conceptually, that's great, but the hard part is actually finding the quote, right dose of stress in the gym so that you get stronger without the overdraft fees. Now you might be thinking, okay, how do I actually audit my training fatigue? How do I know if my technique is efficient? What do I actually do in the gym? And that's why we created the injury risk action plan to be more than just a triage for pain. It's a toolkit for performance over the long term. It's not a textbook, it's five actionable tools that you can use today. The first one is the fatigue audit. It's a literal ledger to check if you're overdrawn on training stress. Number two is the rep model and there's also a big three checklist. These are rapid fire ways to dial in your form without overthinking it. We have the dosage navigator to customize your progression plan, depending on where you're at in training. And yes, there's an injury triage protocol. It's a decision tree for exactly what to do if you feel a pop or an ache in the gym. Now, whether you're currently dealing with a tweak or you just wanna train productively for years to come, this packet is the blueprint. It's free, it's in the show notes, download it, save the checklist to your phone and let's get back to the episode. How do you like those analogies? I quite like those. I've not used them before with patients, but perhaps I'll selectively deploy them when needed to help somebody understand some of these concepts, especially, I oftentimes when doing a consult with somebody, I'll ask them to explain to me what they think is going on and what led them to me and I'll just shut up and listen to their story. And I've had people talk for upwards of an hour, just unloading all of their thoughts and fears and beliefs and expectations and everything. And so that's the situation where it ends up being a lot of work to kind of help them unlearn things that are unhelpful for them and get them redirected in a useful direction. And these types of analogies can sometimes be useful when deployed, I think in a tactful way with the right person. So I'm with you, I like it. All right, cool. Well, so now that we know the mechanism, this sort of load exceeding the capacity, people still wanna blame a specific boogie man. So we're gonna line up the usual suspects here and see if they're actually guilty. Starting with suspect number one, heavyweight. You ask a random person, why people get hurt in the gym? The number one answer is they're lifting too heavy. Logic is simple, a hundred pound squat is safe, but a 500 pound squat, well, that's dangerous. Austin, does the data actually show that lifting heavier weights increases injury rates? Yeah, this is gonna be a tough one for people because their intuition on this is gonna feel so strong. And so I think that there's gonna be some degree of, you know, what is your own experience compared with what are the data? And then we're gonna have to come up with some way to reconcile this. Because I like setting out upfront, what would I predict if this were true? This is often how it informs lots of our interactions and arguments when we get on threats. If this were true, what would you expect? And then what is the data that actually looks at it in that way tend to show? So if we expected that the higher intensity, higher load lifting caused dramatically higher injury rates, then we would expect that the competitive power lifters and weight lifters would have the highest injury risk, that bodybuilders and other folks who train with relatively lower loads would have much lower levels of injury risk. And that doesn't actually tend to be the case based on the data that we cited earlier. CrossFit, also they tend to use very different absolute loads and even relative loads compared to their OneRetMax, compared to some of these athletes. And we actually saw not a higher incidence in the group that was tending to lift with higher loads. But we saw a pattern that suggested more of this, are you adequately prepared for the thing that you're trying to do? I know that you have cited before some data on Strongman as an interesting kind of, I don't know, you can call it an outlier compared to some of these other sports. What are your thoughts on Strongman? Yeah, Malcolm Gladwell, take your shirt off. Yeah, Strongman and Highland Games tend to be these two outlier sort of resistance training or strength sports that do tend to have higher injury rates than that two to four injury, two to four injuries per thousand participation hours that we talked about. Strongman's somewhere like 4.5 to six, something like that. And then Highland Games is like eight. But interestingly, the lighter competitors who lift lighter loads actually had higher injury rates than the heavyweights who lifted heavier loads. And to the extent that it was known, most of the injuries came from awkward implements. So like stones, yolks, et cetera. Now, I'm doing a little bit of rationalization here. Like why would that be the case? But I do think it's likely that the reason why that most of the injuries came from the awkward implements being used is just due to lack of preparation, relatively speaking. Most Strongman athletes come from bodybuilding or powerlifting or whatever, Olympic weightlifting, some sort of barbell sport-based background. And they're very well trained and adapted to those things, which are relatively sterile compared to, hey, pick this rock up and do some stuff with it. Or like these other implements that they may not have exposure to in their training because what do you mean? You don't have finger fingers in your gym? You don't have an appallence wheel, like whatever. So yeah, I thought that was interesting. It's like there is a signal there. And how do we explain that? That said, if it was just load alone, just heavy weights, yes, to your point, you would expect the heavy weight Strongman athletes to have more injuries because they're lifting heavier, but that is not the case. What's your verdict on this overall? Is this suspect number one guilty or innocent? I think that this is, we have presented a case that makes it unlikely to be the primary suspect, meaning I'm moving it down on my tier. It's almost like in clinical medicine when I build a differential diagnosis, I don't ever tend to take diagnoses completely off the table, but rather shuffle their probability as a contributor. So I'm just moving this way down on my list of concerns in general for people, particularly if they're well-prepared for what they're trying to do. The absolute load is not the thing that gives me the greatest source of concern. Yeah, all right, let's move on to suspect number two. This has to do with like exercise selection and a quote, orthopedic cost. This is somewhat related to suspect number one, might be his cousin, right? Because the thought is that heavy compound lifts like squats, bench press, deadlifts, well, they're expensive. They cost you joint health, whatever that means. So should we swap them for cheaper exercises like split squats or trap our deadlifts to save the athlete's joints? Is this a valid way to view training? Are we spending our joints when we lift heavy? I have always found this argument not terribly convincing. I think that this again ties back into those very mechanical views of the body, viewing it as a machine with a really limited lifespan or mileage, so to speak, or how many reps that you could ever tolerate in your life. And it really tends to assume that, hey, just because you do this particular movement, that it is going to cause some degree of damage that you can never recover from. And this fails to recognize the key concept that we've been laying out repeatedly so far is this idea of adaptability, but in particular, adaptability to an appropriate stress. And so I think that that's where this comes in. Now, you will hear, certainly anecdotally, and you'll hear probably from a lot of people who are among Mike Boyle's audience, the types of people who he might be preaching to, they might validate some of this with their own anecdotes and say, yeah, well, when I do this, I tend to get pain. And so to that, my questions would still be to interrogate a little bit more about their training history, because we know, for example, that what's the greatest risk factor for having an injury is a prior injury. And so if you have a history of tweaking your back doing this, there might be the case that you, compared to somebody who's never experienced it, you might be a little higher risk. That might be an area that has some sensitivity on a longer term that might need to be addressed or managed. And then aside from that, yeah, what are you trying to do? And then tell me about your preparation to do that very thing. Now, nobody has to squat or has to deadlift, but we also know that a lot of these movements are kind of key components of everyday life in one way or another. And so having the capacity to do it, I think is important for pretty much everyone. The necessity of training it and training it maximally or heavy, I don't think that either of us, insist upon that broadly speaking for the population. And so then there's a degree of, discussing the person's preferences, but none of this, when it comes to prescription, ties back to the idea of, oh, you are either a person in general who needs to be worried about orthopedic cost or more often this is like, you are above a certain age. And so this becomes a more unique concern for you. How do you tend to reframe this concept? Yeah, I mean, I think again, it ignores adaptation. Like when you drive your car, your tires don't get thicker, your brake pads don't get thicker, right? But the body does do that in response to an appropriately dosed sort of stress. And so I kind of flip this thing on its head, instead of like, oh, it's a heavy cost to do a deadlift. I think it's an investment. Yeah, the stress can potentially be high depending on reps, intensity, proximity to failure, et cetera. But the ROI is that your bones get denser. That's Wolf's Law. Your tendons and ligaments, they grow. That's Davis's Law. We know that the human body adapts to these things if it's dosed appropriately. Now, of course, there's a role for machines, dumbbells, et cetera, due to preferences. People prefer to do those things. And even it might be the preferred movement outside of personal preferences from my standpoint. If I have a person who, yeah, I can put a bar on their back or whatever and they can squat, but it's really, they don't have a good opportunity to train it. They're just not coordinated enough yet to do it. There might be some mobility restrictions. I don't need to force that as a primary means of getting stronger, gaining muscle mass, gaining function. I can use a leg press. That doesn't mean I don't want them to squat at some point and they may do it as a practice sort of thing or just like a general mobility exercise, like a general warmup. I've done all of that. But the leg press is the bread and butter for actually improving function of the lower extremity muscles. And so, yeah, I kind of flip this thing on its head. I view it more as an investment than a cost. And yeah, you can get a pretty good ROI. So my verdict on this is that exercise selection, orthopedic cost, again, lower on the differential as far as the primary cause, I'm saying innocent. The burden of proof has not been met yet. Agree. All right. Suspect number three, we're talking about hyper-specialization. We've established that orthopedic cost while made up not really a scientific term, probably not the most likely cause here of injuries. Your knees don't have a finite number of bends before they expire, but there is a kernel of truth here when it comes to exercise selection. If I only do low bar back squats, same stance, same shoes, same tempo, et cetera, for five years straight, is that a risk factor for injury? Is the problem the exercise or is the problem more of hyper-specialization? Yeah, there's an important distinction to be made there. The idea from the orthopedic cost discussion is that that movement itself is the problem. That is the thing that we should vilify, that we should avoid at all costs to avoid incurring that cost. But what we observe in practice and through our own experience and even looking at some of the evidence on this, that when we have this state of what you described as hyper-specialization, meaning your training looks relatively monotonous, there is what we call low movement variability. You do the same thing day in and day out, repeatedly say multiple times a week. And oftentimes maybe a little bit too heavy as well or with too many overall working reps or something like that. That is a different way of stressing the body. And when it is that repeated, then that certainly is a common pathway that leads to these types of aches and pains that I call kind of subacute to chronic, these smoldering things that develop that we just categorize as generalized overuse syndromes. And it can be quite difficult to help somebody kind of dig their way back out of that hole, particularly if they're, for some reason, very emotionally attached to that particular exercise or if that is their primary sport and they feel like the more I do this thing, the better I'm going to be at this thing. Kind of reminds me of some of the discussions we had years ago when that book, I think it was ranged that came out in terms of specialization versus kind of delaying specialization and building a broader base upfront and the outcomes that tend to emerge from that across various disciplines. And so we tend to, when working with folks in the situation, broaden out that variation and rather than keeping them kind of locked into a single repeated movement pattern. And we always make the clear distinction that it is not that this movement is bad, it is that the cumulative dosage that you are being exposed to by doing this and only this too much too often is the thing that we need to modify. And people tend to do great when we address that. Yeah, it's not about avoiding the squat because it's like expensive, uniquely expensive. It's just that you got to vary the stress a little bit. So for a person who's not a competitive power lifter going to a meet, well, let me back up. For a person who's not a competitive power lifter, like you don't need to squat with a bar on your back. You don't need to bench press with the barbell. You don't need to deadlift from the floor. I think all of those exercises are fine choices if you like them, but we don't need to compromise your training so much that all of your lower body movements are either a squat or deadlift variation. All of your upper body movements are a bench press variation. You don't need to specialize that much. And even for my power lifting clients, I don't do that for the majority of their training year. It's the lead up to the meet. So what do you do instead? Well, there are many different ways to hinge, for example, you can deadlift, you can hip thrust, for example. You could do both sumo and conventional. You could do single leg stuff. For a squat pattern, you could squat certainly with the bar on your back. You can do split squat, unilateral stuff. You can do a leg press, God forbid. You can do body weight work, calisthenic based stuff. All of this stuff can work to improve muscular strength, to increase muscular hypertrophy, to increase general muscular function. So my advice, especially for people who are not barbell sport athletes, very close to a competition where you do wanna specialize, is build a broad base of physical development. Get good at everything, right? And then if you need to or want to specialize later on, great. So we can use a car analogy here this time that actually works. If you drive your car for 50,000 miles without ever rotating the tires, the tread will wear out on one specific spot until it blows or cords or does something. Now the problem wasn't driving the squat. The problem was you kept the pressure on the exact same square inch or rubber for too long. Variation rotates the tires. It spreads the stress across the entire system so that no single spot fails. So exercise selection matters, not because some exercises are quote bad, but because doing the same exercise over and over again increases the risk of an overuse injury, especially if the dose is too high. You agree with that? I guess I'll allow it. You'll allow it. All right, the judge allowed it. Verdict for this particular suspect is innocent. So now we have to move on to the next suspect. Suspect number four, this is gonna be speed or velocity. So people look at like Olympic weightlifting or CrossFit and they see people moving barbells very quickly. It looks chaotic to the casual person. It looks like Snap City, if they know what Snap City is or where it is. The assumption is that moving slowly like a bodybuilder is safer. Is this based in evidence, Austin? I would challenge people to once again, think like a scientist here and say, if this hypothesis were true, and I compared athletes across certain sports higher velocity, like say weightlifting, versus powerlifting, which is low velocity, then I would expect the weightlifters to have a massively higher rate of injury risk. And then when we look at actual evidence that is examined, this doesn't seem to support that fear. We end up seeing relatively similar injury rates between these two disciplines, as well as many others that are on the average a bit faster compared with those that are a bit slower. And again, this comes back to this idea of what are you prepared to do? What to what task are you most adapted? And so for people who train with speed, with ballistic mode movements, with explosiveness, they tend to adapt and get better and better at doing that. Now, we have talked about this before, for example, when we get questions about somebody who wants to get into sprinting, because they have heard maybe of some particular benefits of sprinting. And one of the things we tend to tell them is, hey, if you've never sprinted before, going out to a flat track and doing 10 rounds of 100 meter sprints, I have some degree of apprehension, perhaps about how your hamstrings are.  and so on. So, we're going to tolerate that effort. You might do okay, but there are probably ways that we can alter that stress to mitigate that risk and help you better prepare to do that thing that you're trying to do. And so, we might reduce the overall number of sprints, and we might put somebody on an uphill, for example, to mitigate some of those risks to address that issue until they are ready to handle that degree of speed and explosiveness and power generation. And then we can kind of unleash them in a different environment, and we actually don't have the same degree of concern anymore. So it is not intrinsic to that task, but the context has changed in terms of this person's level of preparation for that speed and explosiveness. And then the same thing applies to slower activities. Somebody says, I've never done a one-rep max deadlift before, and so suddenly I'm going to do a one-rep max deadlift attempt that is 100 pounds in excess of my all-time best lift or something like that. I'm going to say, maybe don't love how aggressive we're about to be here. It's going to be slow, and so maybe like, well, slow velocity should be safe. It's like, yeah, it's going to be quite slow. How prepared are you to do this thing? How close have we gotten to this effort in our training to date? And that's something that we can probably aim to work up to a little bit more progressively rather than jumping all the way up. So the speed itself here is not the variable that leads to our source of concern, but rather what led up to that effort. Yeah. I think we should exonerate speed from the charges. We'll move on to our next suspect. I promise I'm not going to keep this legal thing going for much longer. We're getting to the end. But suspect number five has got to be age. Now, this one is my favorite of the entire podcast, mainly because I just turned 40 and actually got a notice from the age police that I could no longer lift heavy. They said, look, you can't actually deadlift over 600 anymore. You can't certainly squat that much. It's just you're too old. Be careful. You're not 20 anymore. But the data actually shows an inverse trend here. So multiple studies have shown that younger lifters, so those under the age of 30, actually have higher injury rates than older lifters. There's a few other data sets that make the cut point at 40, which I found very convenient for me. And so when I'm interpreting this data, the data is what it is. And so now we have to explain, well, why is this the case? Now, this is some speculation, certainly, but I think this is mostly behavioral that younger lifters may be more prone to increase the training load too quickly. They have less experience. Their training age. If you compare somebody who started training at 20 and now they're 25, compared to somebody who started training at 20, now they're 40, the training age is much different. This old man strength thing is kind of real. There's just more experience. There's a little more maturity and more experience with auto regulation, even if you don't call it auto regulation. Go through your warm-ups. You feel the weight isn't moving quite as well as I wanted it today. I'm going to have to adjust. Even if you don't use RPE, Repson Reserve, bar velocity, any of that stuff, you just know it because, again, you've been doing it for so long. That said, the callus has been built up over a long period of time. It is very thick and robust. Even if there's an error, perhaps there's some protection there. I don't think that older generally makes people more fragile. It just makes you more experienced. It may actually be protective factor in the gym from those behavioral sort of things here. The possible caveat here is that older folks who are untrained, I'm talking about individuals in their 60s and 70s, they have a lower fitness level. They've been inactive for longer. We generally have to be a little more careful with them when we start their training. That's mostly from a training load standpoint. That's because their current fitness is lower. That would be the same if somebody who was 20 years old, who for whatever other reason had a low level of fitness too. It's not an age-related thing. It's mostly a fitness-related thing. It just happens to be that most older folks who have previously been inactive, they tend to have a lower fitness level. That's not really age-related. It's more just a habit thing that we see in society. Totally. I can think of multiple examples. Obviously, this is getting a bit into the clinical realm, but some of the patients that I've seen, some of the sickest young people who unfortunately had a bad case of some cancer or another. They're in their 20s or 30s and just horrible luck, really sad cases sometimes. This person is skin and bones, super thin, super weak, super frail. We're trying to get them up and move around. If I was to put myself in a situation where I want to decide how to program this person to build some fitness, I'm going to be quite cautious with them off the bat, whereas somebody who might be double or even triple their age might be able to tolerate much higher amounts of training, no problem if they've been much healthier and active throughout their life in general. This reminds me of the stat you cited at the very beginning when we were comparing across different sports in the context of running in particular, where novice runners had the much higher rate of injury and then the more experienced and elite runners who are doing way more running volume in general, especially at high levels of running performance. These folks are running well over 100 mile weeks a lot of the time, but the more experienced runners actually tended to have the lower injury rates probably because of the accumulated base of fitness that allows them to better tolerate and to match the dose of what they're doing to what they've prepared for compared with the novice athlete in general. Yeah, but because we bring the nuance here, there is a little wrinkle, I think, here that we should probably address. Is some sort of survivorship bias, survival bias just amongst elite lifters general or elite athletes in general? I mean, you see the same relationship between elite Olympic weight lifters and those who are either at the national level or regional level, there's a higher injury risk at the lower level than the higher level. And you're like, well, look, they're lifted heavier weights. They're doing more training load. Why aren't they as injured? It's like, well, look, something got them there. And whether there's genetic components, behavioral components, other sort of intangible things that reduce injury risk that allow somebody to reach their full potential and be an international level or elite level athlete, there's something at play there. But I don't think that age is a causal sort of risk factor here. And so again, I'm giving it, I'm innocent, innocent until proven otherwise. You agree? Yeah. I mean, older folks, you just need to prepare for what you're trying to do. And that seems to, I'm going to keep hammering that throughout this episode. Yeah, I'm embracing old man strength. All right. A couple more suspects left. This is a fun one, anabolic. So far we've debunked a few things, but there's one major factor that does seem to spike injury risk, although not sure how causal this is. The industry doesn't like to talk about it. Anabolic steroids. So to me, I'm going to take on this. It's tricky to kind of separate the signal from the noise. When you look at data here, yes, just by and large, there are more injuries in individuals who use anabolic steroids than don't. And this can be at super physiological doses. So people are legitimately taking high doses, but it also happens in individuals getting TRT and you're like, wait, what? To me though, when I look at this, it looks like a mismatch problem. So steroids generally speaking, and not like glucocorticoids, not those steroids you get to tamp down inflammation, for example, or deal with an autoimmune disease, but anabolic steroids make the muscles stronger very quickly. But the adaptation rate of those compared to tendon deligaments, which are much slower, that's a mismatch. It's like putting a Ferrari engine in a Honda Civic. The engine, your muscle produces so much force that the chassis of the Civic, no hate comes to a Honda Civic, it literally is mismatched. So my verdict on this, get your take on it, is guilty-ish in that it does seem to be a unique risk factor, particularly at super physiological, super therapeutic doses, but it's not because the steroids themselves do something to the tendon, to the ligament, to the joint that makes it more vulnerable. It just makes people much stronger compared to the adaptation rate of the soft tissues. And there may be some additional motivation from like, I'm on here right now. I should be in this weight to maximize my gains. Yeah. I find it plausible. This is not an area of massive expertise for me, but I find it plausible that we keep talking about this idea of like, are you prepared to do the thing you're trying to do? Whereas in this situation, what it ends up coming down to is these let you do things that you're not prepared for, right? And so I can see a scenario where somebody might be using these substances, but with, you know, again, proper progression and load management of their training being more cautious with that over time recognizing that, oh, this is about to let me do things that I'm not, you know, maybe fully ready for, or I might be able to do this before I should do this to use Dr. Derek Miles's line of can I do this versus should I do this? That might lead to this issue that you're describing. Yeah. All right. So I'm going to give it a guilty ish, but, you know, it has some, it has some accomplices. All right. Sure. Suspect number seven is going to be accidents. This is the last one. We spent all this time arguing about biomechanics and shear forces, but actually a huge chunk of gym injuries have nothing to do with lifting at all. We call these gravity events. And so you look at ER data. So a study of emergency room visits showed that 77% of injuries in kids in the gym were just from dropping weights on their feet or pinching their fingers. Now a lot of gym injuries aren't because they rounded their back during a deadlift. They probably weren't even deadlifting, but they just tripped over a dumbbell, didn't use a collar and the plates lit off, et cetera. When you look at older individuals, older cohorts, it represents a smaller subset of injuries, somewhere around 20% depending on who you read and where they got the data from. But still the gym is a physical place with heavy metal objects that can fall on you and can injure you. So I'm going to say that accidents are guilty. I kind of view this as like a luck sort of thing. Like, yeah, sometimes it do be like that. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Have you ever, I know that both of us have had some experience with dropping stuff on ourselves, none bad enough that it led to something catastrophic that required medical attention or, you know, go into the ER or anything. But here and there, I've definitely like stubbed my toe on a rack or, you know, dropped a, I think a 25, which fortunately did not lead to a broken toe. I don't think I've ever dropped a 45 or a 25 kilo plate on myself. But I suspect you've had some similar experiences. Yeah. I mean, I stubbed my toe, I smashed my finger between plates before, you know, lacerated various things by getting them caught and things in the gym that I'm like, ergonomically, that doesn't make much sense to me. But like that, again, it's just a subset of injuries that occur in the gym. And again, tend to happen in younger people. So again, shout out, shout out to old man strength on this one. Yeah. All right. So look, if weight, exercise selection, speed, movement speed and age aren't the main culprits, well, everyone from there is going to pivot to the holy grail technique. You got hurt because your form broke down. Now, if you ask most coaches, you ask most people why they got hurt, they'll say, well, look, I moved wrong. My form broke down. It's basically the ultimate scapegoat. But Austin, when we actually look at the scientific literature on this, is there even an agreed upon definition of what, quote, good technique actually is? Yeah. Much like definitions of injury or definitions of what, quote, unquote, good posture is, there is not clear consensus on this. And I think that we've talked about this at seminars before where you've cited this 2009 systematic review that defined proper technique. And I'll just pause for dramatic effect here as performing exercise that maximizes adaptations and minimizes injury risk, which is kind of a worthless definition, right? It's like, yeah, we want an exercise that gives us the good stuff and none of the bad stuff. And we'll call that good exercise. So it's pretty circular definition that ends up not being terribly useful when it comes to application or identifying what might be, quote, unquote, good technique or bad technique, because you can only really determine it retrospectively. But even then, it doesn't mean that the person exercised good technique if you're going to have something because it's possible to do an exercise and move in all sorts of ways with a movement technique that by and large, we might not consider ideal and to not get injured from it. So that it did not cause an injury does not necessarily imply that it was good. So it's kind of a useless circular definition that we don't actually tend to use in our practice. What do you think? Yeah, I agree. It seems like a tautology to me. It's just like, oh, look, you perform an exercise and you got some gains from it, but you didn't hurt yourself. The technique was good. But you're sure about that? Yeah. And it is interesting to me that only one study actually is like taking a stab at this, despite everybody talking about good technique, perfect technique, it's the way to really mitigate your injury risk. So maybe it's like a justice potter thing to go back to the legal stuff. We know bad technique when we see it. And so we assume that, quote, good technique means looking like a robot that every rep looks identical down to the millimeter. And if you deviate from that robotic path, well, that's an error. Austin, does the data support the idea that elite lifters move like robots? Yeah, this gets back to the mechanical kind of model of movement and exercise technique and things like that. And this is super intuitive to people. You will see all the time, for example, people in the lifting space who say, your goal should be to make every single rep look as identical as possible. And it's like, it sounds good. And it's a reasonable hypothesis. But if we actually look at how people move, even at a very high level of sport, it tends to not actually be that way. So there's this concept called dynamic systems theory that we've actually talked about. This was now years ago, I think, when we last talked about this topic of movement variation. But the idea here is that there's this relationship between the person, their body, their psychology, their movement patterning and things like that. There's the environment that they're in. And there is what is the actual task that they're trying to do? And in particular, what are the unique constraints of that task? So one simple example could be if you are trying to back squat with a barbell and the constraint that we're going to put in place is that that barbell is going to have no weight on it. You are not terribly constrained. You are able to move in all sorts of ways and people can what we'll call self organize, which means that they are able to with repeated practice and essentially identifying a path and a movement that is comfortable, is tolerable. Of course, a lot of sometimes people might need a little bit of coaching if they're more on the beginner side. But over time, people do tend to self organize and identify things that you'll hear them describe as working better for them. Or if they've often experimented with different styles of movement, they have kind of self identified some of these things. Now if we change the task constraint to say that instead of no weight on the bar, we're going to put 500 pounds on the bar. And then, there are many fewer options in terms of ways that the person can successfully move that weight. So the constraints put in place or alternatively, if I change the environment, maybe I put them on a different planet with a very different gravitational pull or something like that, then that would also change what are the movement options available to the person. And so that is the concept where these different aspects can interact to lead to the kind of what we'll call emergent aspect, what emerges in terms of the way the person moves and how they tolerate it and how they adapt to it and how they kind of organize over time. I know you've looked at some data on high level athletes and how they move and found some surprising findings. Do you want to summarize those? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, even elite athletes, when they actually measure them using like pretty high tech like motion capture software, they move differently each time they do a rep. It can be 75% of the one rep max on a back squat. It could be 90% of their one rep max on a back squat or deadlift. There's significant variability from rep to rep in all three planes, right? In three dimensions. And it's like, well, look, if they, you would expect elite lifters. These were international level lifters that they would be able to do it like a robot. Everything's the same, every single rep, but it's not. And certainly they're trying to do so, right? This is a very like, this is kind of a social construct. Like people want to do this because they believe it to be better, more efficient, but that's not really the case. And so I think the takeaway here is that variability isn't an error. It's just a strategy. Body is a complex system of millions of parts. It self-organizes differently. Every rep to solve the problem, that's to lift the weight. If you try to force a lifter to move sort of invariably, like a robot, it might increase injury risk because you're preventing the tissues from sharing the load to moving into a more powerful or stronger position, something that's more ready to do the task with the constraints that are being given. So we're not like robots. We're more like biological jazz musicians. We improvise slightly every rep and that's a feature, not a bug. All right, one last thing before we move on. Look, if safe lifting technique, bend at the knees, keep your back straight, actually worked. We would expect warehouse workers who get trained in this or nurses, for example, who get trained in this to have fewer back injuries, right? Apparently not. We have huge data sets on this where employers spend millions of dollars teaching workers how to lift properly. But the result is that there's nearly zero evidence that this training prevents back pain, disability, days missed at work. We've tried to, quote, technique our way out of back pain or back injuries in the workplace for 40 years or more in the workplace and it's basically failed completely. Why? Well, back pain and pain in general is complex. It's not just lifting correctly. It's not a geometry problem. It's just more nuanced than that. If the definition for, quote, perfect form is circular and we shouldn't move like robots and workplace safety training doesn't really work, what the hell are we supposed to do, Austin? I think that we've been hammering the key message throughout this episode so far and I think it's probably time to start to, as people I hear saying more and more often on podcasts these days, we need to land the plane and start to bring this together into a useful, kind of practical model. It comes down to differentiating and to some degree, like de-stigmatizing the concept of bad form or bad technique as people commonly identify it and kind of reframing that as more of an inefficiency in movement that can potentially be rectified, improved, whether by coaching or by continued practice in this concept of self-organization. We've also reframed the idea of like, well, what is the actual risk at play of moving in this way? Of course, there are a lot of variables that inform that risk. How prepared are you for doing the thing you're trying to do? How much in excess of your current capacity is this thing that you're trying to do in this way? And that is, again, where we're going to continue to bring our attention back. I would love to see people trying to move in all sorts of different ways and experimenting, particularly early on in their athletic training, lifting journey, exploring all the different ways that their body can move. Slow, fast, unilateral, bilateral, explosive, slow, things like that, and end up doing this long-term self-organization process. Eventually, the beauty of it is, as you do this, and as you get feedback, both like what we'll call inter-acceptive feedback, you're at what you feel inside, or if you get coaching and external feedback and we can kind of gradually organize this over time, you end up developing the preferred ways that you can move best and you can build that capacity and you can achieve great things by doing that. And you can do it without needing to think so hard about every single rep. This is why if you put a bar on your back or my back or in our hands and ask us to squad it or bench it, or if you still now, a decade later, throw me in a pool and ask me to swim a lap, I can do it with quite good technique and it does not require a whole lot of active thinking or queuing or worrying about details because of the sheer amount of practice and exposure and self-organization that we've had kind of along the way, including, I'm sure, lots of reps that did not look, quote unquote, pretty or optimal per current kind of social concepts of those things. Yeah. Well, I think we've sufficiently burned the house of technique down. So we got to build something in its place. We need something that's more like a compass and not a rule book. And so the model that we've been using for exercise technique is called the rep model. It's an acronym. It stands for repeatable, efficient, and that the exercise or the style that you're using, it meets the points of performance. So repeatable means that the individual should perform the exercise in a way where the range of motion, the joint angles, the movement velocity, the tempo, and the overall movement pattern is they're somewhat similar rep to rep. Now of course, individuals move differently from one another and when the analysis is constrained to a single person from rep to rep. Thus we're going to accept some rep to rep variability, though the range of motion, the joint angles, the velocity and the tempo should remain fairly similar. That means that your squats should mostly look like squats throughout the set and not squat, squat, squat, good morning, for example. The movement should also be efficient in that it should maximize performance for a given level of energy and effort. In other words, an individual should aim for a technique that minimizes muscular force production that does not contribute to completion of the task. So in a deadlift, for example, if the bar starts way out in front of you and you have to expend all this energy to roll it back, get it into position, and then lift it, that's not very efficient. You can see this when people's hips move up or down prior to the bar leaving the floor, for example. And then finally, the P of the rep model that the movement style meets the points of performance. So these are like pre-specified constraints, like are we going to squat below parallel, are we going to pause at the bottom, are we going to use a specific tempo, is it going to be very fast? Ultimately, these are pre-specified to meet the goals of an exercise. So what do you want to get out of it? A lot of these things are arbitrary, but still, that's the end of the rep model. And Austin, you'll note that this model intentionally avoids advocating for specific anatomical relationships, like the knees have to stay behind the toes. You've got to maintain a, quote, neutral spine. Why do you think that I left that out, if you had to guess? Yeah, I think that because those are not pertinent variables at play here, I think that we allow the constraints of the task to inform those anatomic relationships rather than prescribing the anatomic relationships ahead of time. So for example, if you said that anytime you lift a weight from the floor, you need to maintain a neutral spine, well, suddenly you have to forfeit the atlas stone lift when you go to your strongman competition. It is literally not possible to do that movement with a neutral spine, completely not possible, that is inherent to that task because of the constraints of lifting a heavy ball off the ground. For example, we also know that if you perform a deadlift or if you perform a squat, even when visually it looks like your back is flat when this is actually measured using more advanced bio, biomechanical measurement techniques that people's spines are in fact flexing, is unavoidable to some extent. So trying to prescribe these anatomic relationships ahead of time is not only unhelpful, but many times makes certain tasks impossible. Here we apply this model and the task constraints and then allow the person to explore kind of what we'll call the movement space, the options that they have available to them. And in particular, when it's a situation where we're introducing it, it generally is going to start out with lower loading, right, where they have more of those options. And then as we progressively load it over time, then yes, the available movement space, the number of options they have available to them will narrow the heavier it gets to improve that efficiency once they've had sufficient exposure and practice and adaptation to that task or preparation for what they're trying to do. So the task constraints are what inform this kind of self-organization more than us organizing the lifter into the positions that we want them to be in. Yeah. And oh, by the way, those positions are going to change over time. Individuals get stronger. Their individual strengths and weaknesses and movement preferences and understanding of the constraints, all that stuff changes almost like in perpetuity as long as you keep going. So these things are going to change. And so does technique. But ultimately, if it's repeatable, if it's relatively efficient and it meets the arbitrary, pre-specified points of performance based on your goals, you're probably good. You don't need to worry about technique anymore. So where do we leave this? We started this episode with the image of an influencer drawing red lines on a squat and screaming Snapsity. They sell you on the idea that you're a fragile machine, a car with a bad alignment, a ticking time bomb waiting to explode. But today, we looked at the evidence and we found out that narrative is a lie. We learned that pain does not equal tissue damage and that most injuries in the gym aren't catastrophic. We learned that your spine is not like a brake pad that wears out. It's the living system that adapts, builds a callus when you load it. And we learned that the usual suspects such as heavy weight, moving at a fast velocity and age, well, they're mostly innocent. Now the industry wants you to believe that the biggest risk in the gym is rounding your back when you deadlift. The data proves that the biggest risk is actually the no SIBO effect, letting someone convince you that you are broken. The second biggest risk is load management, trying to spend a budget that you haven't earned yet. And the third is hyper specialization, never rotating the tires and letting a hotspot develop. So here are your marching orders. It's time to stop playing defense and start playing offense. Number one, stop optimizing for quote safety by avoiding specific exercises. You're safer in the squat rack than you are on the soccer field and using a wide range of exercises is like an expansion pack for your physical abilities. Number two, stop trying to move like a robot. Use the rep model. If it's repeatable, efficient and meets the points of performance for the exercise, your technique is probably good enough. Instead of focusing on technique, focus on executing your reps with maximum intent. And number three, manage the dose. Avoid doing too much too soon. Most of your work should not be maximal, particularly on compound exercises. While it's not risky to lift heavy per se, going too close to failure too often can be tough to recover from. Most of your work should be done in the RPE 6 to 8 range. Build the callus, not the blister. Now we know that this is a massive mindset shift. It is scary to ignore the red lines. And to help you navigate this, we have created the Barbell Medicine Injury Risk Action Plan. It's free. It's in the show notes below and it's waiting for you right now. Download it, immunize yourself against the BS and let's get strong. We'll see you next week.

=== FILE: Episode #380： The Peptide Market Audit： Injury Healing or Biohacking Hype？ [sHEH3kwt2Uw].txt ===

 time is precious, and so are our pets. So time with our pets is extra precious. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24-7 access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow-ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments and shipping is always free. With Dutch, you'll get more time with your pets and year-round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just $92 a year. In 2006, a biotech firm thought that they had discovered the holy grail of human performance. They had a compound that could elevate growth hormone for days with a single injection, but they abruptly shut the entire program down. Why? Because a healthy subject died of a heart attack. That drug was CJC-1295, and today that exact same compound is being sold by the gallon on the internet to bio-hackers and 20-year-old lifters trying to get jacked. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're going to do a forensic audit of the entire peptide market. They're often billed to be safer and more effective than anabolic steroids, and these compounds have been moving from the underground forums into mainstream longevity clinics, and we need to get them to work. Now, our goal today isn't to dismiss peptides out of hand, but to apply the same standard we use for everything else. What does the human data actually show? Are the results meaningful, or are we just looking at mechanisms in Petri dishes? And to help us separate the signal from the noise, I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now, Austin, before we get into these specific molecules, we have to address why this topic is blowing up right now. In late 2023, the FDA essentially declared war on the peptide supply chain. Moving dozens of popular compounds to a restricted list. Now, there's a massive amount of confusion here regarding what is actually legal, what is banned, and what is just plain dangerous. To set the stage, we need to distinguish between three different bodies, the DEA, the FDA, and WADA. Austin, can you break down the difference for our listeners between a drug being scheduled for criminal activity versus a drug being restricted by the FDA for safety? Yeah, I think a lot of the drugs that people think of as being quote unquote illegal are in that list of what are called scheduled control. And I think that's a good point, that list of what are called scheduled controlled substances. The DEA is kind of responsible for that. There is a kind of a tiered classification of one through five. And these relate to varying degrees of abuse potential addiction versus potential medical use and the degree of like monitoring that might be needed if somebody is to use some of these depending on what level they're scheduled at. These are things on the extreme like heroin, for example. Even cocaine technically has some legitimate medical uses still today. Testosterone is unfortunately on this list. I don't really think it should be, but it is. Xanax definitely should be on this list. Opioids, things like that. These are things that A, require a special DEA license, like one that I have to prescribe within certain restrictions and limitations and oversight regulation. But possession of these without a prescription is usually considered a crime. And now if you contrast that with a lot of these peptides, the DEA is not really paying attention to these at the moment. They're not scheduled, they're not on this list. There's not like a way that somebody with a DEA license can specifically prescribe you BPC or any one of these peptides. They're just not on that list at all. So what you're saying is that the DEA isn't kicking down your door for having BPC-157, but the FDA has effectively nuked the supply chain. In recent years, you could get these from compounding pharmacies. Doctors could write a script. The pharmacy would make it and all was above board. But in late 2023, the FDA moved many of their popular peptides like BPC-157 to category two of the bulk drug substances list. Now category two is the FDA basically saying, we have reviewed this and we see significant safety risks or no proof that it works. So you're not really allowed to compound this for humans anymore. And for the athletes listening, drug testing is a third separate category. Yeah, we've talked about DEA, the medical prescription level that I tend to operate in that space. The FDA, which is even the bigger picture that has some authority outside of that DEA space as well. And then when it comes to sports drug testing, when we've talked about these organizations on the podcast before, WADA like the World Anti-Doping Agency, and then each, you know, if it's individual national affiliates like USADA, and these are also completely independent. They don't really care what the FDA has to say about anything. They also don't really care what the DEA has to say about anything. They have their own regulations and rules, mainly oriented around performance advantages or potential for performance enhancement in sport. And so pretty much everything that we end up talking about today for the purposes of, you know, sport performance and drug testing in sports is gonna be pretty much prohibited. They have a few different categorizations, S2 category, S0 category. The details of this are probably not super important for people to distinguish clearly, but there are differences, for example, among peptide hormones, growth factors, things like that versus things that are just straight up non-approved substances. And so this is something that you need to keep in mind if you are an athlete participating in a drug-tested sport, organization, federation, et cetera, because these peptides may well end up coming back to bite you. Yeah, I think people assume that if their doctor prescribed it or if they got it off a website and everything was legal, then that's automatically included, like it's okay for sport, but that is definitively not the case. There's been a number of bands for these already. And while these manufacturers, particularly of the research chemicals, are trying to get sophisticated by changing the molecule a little bit so it's not detected, testing organizations, they're working on it to try to keep up with these individuals. The never-ending battle that's been going on forever will continue, I think. That's right. So to recap, the DEA mostly doesn't care about peptides. The FDA says that doctors and pharmacies can't really give it to you anymore for safety, and WADA says, well, we'll ban you for using it. So overall, proceed with caution. So we got this regulatory crackdown happening because the FDA is looking at the safety profile of these specific molecules. That raises the most fundamental question. What actually is a peptide? Now, if you scroll through social media and you look at research chemical sites, the word peptide is used as a catch-all for basically anything that comes in a vial and can be bought with Bitcoin. But scientifically, that's not quite right. In pharmacology, we classify drugs based on their size and their complexity. Now, this isn't just a matter of semantics. It dictates whether you can swallow a drug as a pill or if you have to inject it. We can think of drug molecules like vessels in the ocean. Small molecules like aspirin and statins, they're like rowboats. They're tough enough to survive the storm of your stomach acid and small enough to slip inside cells. Biologics, like growth hormone, are aircraft carriers. They're huge and complex. You can't swallow an aircraft carrier, your stomach would tear it apart. This is why they're typically injected. Now, peptides are the speedboats in the middle. They're faster and more complex than rowboats, but generally too fragile for the digestive tract. And actually in 2020, the FDA established what's known as the Bright Line Rule. Basically, it says if a drug has 40 or fewer amino acids, it's legally considered a peptide. If it has 41 or more, it's a protein or a biologic. So somaglutide, that's ozampic, wegovi, et cetera, is 31 amino acids long. That is under the limit, so it's technically a peptide. You compare that to insulin. insulin is 51 amino acids long. That crosses this Bright Line. So technically, insulin is a protein drug. Now, historically, speedboats were still too fragile for the stomach, so if you ate a peptide drug, your body would just recognize it as a protein and digested it into amino acids. It technically becomes expensive urine. But Austin, I know people who have listened to our podcast before, they're gonna be screaming either at their phone or their speaker. Well, what about rebelle cysts? That's oral somaglutide. How does that work here? Yeah, I mean, first of all, there's really no reason to scream, but we can address the oral somaglutide conundrum. And it really is an interesting exception because by and large, to date, the approved GLP-1 receptor agonists and multi-agonists that we addressed in our last episode are pretty much all subcutaneous injectable drugs, going way back to exanitide, and laryngolutide, dulaglutide, et cetera, since then. But as the science has kind of progressed, the drug pharmacologic engineering has progressed. There's obviously been this somewhat holy grail of having an oral formulation of these medicines because the thought is that there are some people who might be, you know, needlephobia or just prefer oral medicines or potentially if we can formulate an oral medicine that works, it might be more convenient, more accessible, less expensive. There's various reasons to at least try to pursue this, whether or not it's to somebody's individual personal preference. And so for oral somaglutide, which is currently branded under ribelsis used for diabetes, it is kind of an exception here. They had to do some really fancy pharmacologic engineering that is way outside of either of our wheelhouse. They had to combine it with this, what's called an enhancer known as a SNAC, SNAC. And that basically facilitates oral absorption of these peptides that would otherwise be digested. So it helps it kind of evade that breakdown in the stomach and ends up getting absorbed. Despite that, it still does not have great, what we call oral bioavailability. And so that's why, for example, if you look at the milligram doses of oral somaglutide that are common used at the moment, it's dosed at three, seven or 14 milligrams. And it's being studied up to 50 milligrams. Well, if you combine that with the injectable versions that go into the skin, that starts at 0.25 milligrams with a max dose of around 2.4. And so there's almost like A-50-fold difference in absorption efficacy. And that's why you have to use such higher doses of the oral formulations to get it absorbed. It really is a pretty impressive feat of the pharmaceutical engineering, but there's some really fancy stuff that has to get done to turn that oral peptide into something that's absorbable and then delivers efficacy. And so this has implications if you think that some of these other types of peptides that you might be buying from wherever on the internet, how effectively, if they're orally delivered, how much you're actually absorbing, whether they're getting to where you want them to get to have the effect that you're looking for. Yeah, people are like, oh, I can get oral BPC-157, just traditionally sold as like an injectable for subcutaneous administration. They're like, well, but this one's oral. I can just take it by mouth. And it's like, yeah, what are the odds that they have this likely proprietary pharmaceutical enhancer attached to it? Yeah, not so simple as taking an injectable medicine and then just like squirting it in your mouth instead. There's very relatively few drugs that work equivalently both ways. Now, just for the listeners at home, in the hospital, does this distinction between a peptide and a protein actually change how you think about a drug safety or how it behaves in the body? Or is it mostly like a regulatory hurdle where you're like, well, it's classified as this and this is the administration, but I don't really think about this. Yeah, not really something that comes up in clinical decision making. I bet if you even asked most folks who are practicing clinicians who use all sorts of these drugs, they might not be able to confidently distinguish between which is technically a peptide and which is technically a protein. Now, as far as the biologics go, yes, in general, we know which ones are biologics. They're a whole separate class that we think about very differently. Most of the time because they're significantly impacting immunity. And so then I really wanna know is my patient immunosuppressed or immunocompromised? But outside of that, like the simple structural differences, not really something that's relevant outside of just knowing what is this drug? What are the potential benefits? What are the potential downsides? What do I need to think about when considering using it in a patient? But that's pretty much the extent of it. Yeah, that makes sense. Nobody's like, well, this has 51 amino acids, so this is the specific consideration for it. No, using insulin every single day and without a thought to its chain length. There you go. All right, well, the compounds that we'll be talking today are either peptides, those are the speedboats, or the small molecule drugs, those are the rowboats. But for ease of understanding, we'll collectively call them peptides, even though that's wrong and it will annoy Austin. Yeah. He'll allow it. All right. So the excitement over peptides though, for improving health and performance to me is understandable. If peptides are these speedboats targeted and mid-sized, that actually kind of leads us to the biggest selling point of the industry. The promise that while steroids are a shotgun, hitting the muscle, but also the prostate and the hairline and your hematocrit, well, peptides are billed as like a sniper rifle. They claim to hit only the receptor you want without the systemic tax. But as we're about to see, that specificity is often more theoretical than reality. Austin, can you think of an example in medicine where something like this actually plays out? Yeah, tons of them, where we have differences in terms of the kind of specificity of our treatment and just a couple of examples. So one has to do with what I actually just alluded to with the immune modifying drug. So prednisone, for example, or a glucocorticoid is kind of like that shotgun analogy. It is about as potent of a, we'll call it a broad spectrum anti-inflammatory as we want. Most types of inflammation, not all, but most it will tend to heavily suppress, particularly if you use high enough doses. But it has a lot of those off-target effects. That's why we really don't like having people on very high doses of prednisone or for very long periods of time, because it can impact the bones and body fat and muscle and blood sugar and your brain and your sleep and all sorts of different things. Fortunately, as time has gone on, we have developed a lot more specifically targeted immunomodulatory drugs to target specific elements of the immune system. So in contrast to that shotgun, for example, the anti-TNF drug. So for example, Humira is one that many people in the audience might be familiar with. They might know somebody who is on these. There are, even that one is getting a little bit older now. There are much newer, hotter ones that are targeting specific interleukin signaling pathways or others that are targeting just that specific signaling pathway and leaving everything else untouched. That doesn't mean that these don't have potential negative side effects or things like that. It's just mitigating and we're much more comfortable having patients on these long-term compared with something like prednisone long-term. Another even easier example for people to understand is the use of antibiotics. On one hand, if I have somebody who comes in who's extremely ill and I have no idea what's going on, I'm probably gonna just blast them with the broadest spectrum antibiotics that I can that kills kind of everything. And then the more information I get, I can target it more specifically to the organism that I have identified that I'm trying to kill. So there's that difference in the broader spectrum effects versus the more narrow targeted spectrum effects. And so there can be reasons to go in either direction that are perfectly valid in practice. And so I think here in the peptide space, a lot of these are billed for having very specific targeted effects that people might be seeking. And of course, if you're comparing it with, oh, well, instead I went to my doctor and they wanted to put me on a course of prednisone or something like that for that. It's like, yeah, that would be an attractive, alternative to me too, because I would really try to avoid taking a medicine like that if I had any other feasible option that had efficacy. Yeah, especially again, if there was a lot of evidence to support these very specific targets without any sort of unintended consequences. And so typically we call that like pleotropy, but usually we're referring to that in a positive setting. So for example, with like the GLP-1 receptor agonist, we're finding a lot of like unintended benefits. So it's like positive pleotropy, but it could also be negative. In the case of maybe a peptide that like BPC-157, many people think, oh, well, it's whispering to the specific receptors on your tendons only to grow or remodel, repair. But that might also be hitting a receptor on like a precancer's polyp in your colon that could be listening to the same frequency. And when that polyp here is grow, it doesn't ask for permission. It just grows. We just don't know that yet based on evidence, but pleotropy can be positive or negative and usually uncovered with more extensive research, which is a nice segue into each peptide that we're gonna discuss. And we're gonna start off with the growth hormone agents. This is the first category. I'd like to call this an anabolic mirage. Now these are growth hormone secretogogues, meaning that they increase growth hormone release. They basically cause more growth hormone to be released. So we're gonna start off with CJC-1295 and they're basically viewed as like a diet HDH or again, HGH without the shutdown. They're marketed as the ultimate recovery tool to build muscle and lose fat by naturally boosting your body's growth hormone levels around the clock. Now the history of this particular peptide, it was developed in the early 2000s by Conjikem for HIV patients to treat lipodistrophy, which is abnormal fat distribution. So the mechanism of action, you can think about your pituitary gland as a factory that ships out growth hormone in batches or pulses. Now there are two different versions of this. One is CJC-1295 with DAC. This is a manager who basically nails the doors open, creating a constant bleed of growth hormone into your system that can last for a week. Basically it's a long lasting version of this peptide. And then there's ModGRF, which is a manager who tells the factory to ship out a bigger batch right now. So two different versions of the same type of peptide. As far as the evidence based on this, human data confirms that this peptide raises both growth hormone and insulin like growth factor one or IGF one levels. However, the phase two clinical trial of this peptide was halted due to a patient death leading to its commercial abandonment. Now Austin, for the non-clinicians that are listening, can you explain the gravity of a trial being halted for a death? Like how does that differ from the typical side effects we see in an approved drug? Yeah, I think it is reflective of the pharmaceutical kind of testing system working in a way that we would like it to. In other words, they're generally going to be kind of risk averse and take these types of things very seriously when they happen. It does not automatically in all cases imply that, oh, the drug definitely killed this person. There's a lot of details that you'd have to sort out to try to what's called adjudicate that. You have to determine did this person just die? You know, you could be enrolled in a trial and get hit by a car and die. That doesn't mean that they're gonna halt the trial for it. But if there is a plausible potential mechanism, for example, if the patient presented very ill in acute liver failure after starting a new drug, it's like, well, that's actually a relatively common sort of thing that can happen on exposure to new medicines. And so this would need to be investigated and as I said, adjudicated, determined before we can make decisions about the ethics of proceeding with continuing the trial or with running additional trials in the future. This is why things like institutional review boards also exist to look over trials and have them planned out very ethically and carefully and cautiously so that when we have humans who are volunteering to be participants in a study, they're not volunteering for their own death. And so again, I don't wanna blow this out of proportion right away and say, oh, definitely this will definitely kill you if you take it, but rather that it is a signal for something that we would hope doesn't happen in a clinical trial that deserves extra scrutiny. And so I'm not surprised that that happened. Yeah, and when digging into this, the research group that was doing this phase two clinical trial was like, well, this person who died may have had like a preexisting heart condition, for example, maybe that's possible. Always possible. But ultimately it was commercially abandoned. And so from there, there's been no real studies in humans and there's absolutely no human data on performance, long-term health, body fat management, lean body mass, anything like that, none. There's some known side effects that have been reported here. So the long lasting version or the bleed version, the one that contains DAC or is attached to DAC is highly prone to inducing some level of insulin resistance and joint pain, which we call arthralgias, which does not seem like a good trade-off. Those are expected things from constant exposure to growth hormone signaling. Those are not surprising effects. And so when you describe the mechanism of like, oh, we just want a constant bleed of growth hormone nonstop, high levels for a week, I'm like, I don't think I want that because there's a lot of downsides to that. Yeah, yeah, so overall this drug class and this particular peptide, there's this kind of underlying assumption with these growth hormone promoting agents that, hey, if you raise growth hormone, that's generally good. But the data on even human growth hormone administration itself in folks who don't need it. So these are folks that are non-deficient in human growth hormone. It's not very good. Even when it's given at super physiological doses. Now I know people follow bodybuilders and a lot of these individuals are taking growth hormone or something that would otherwise increase their growth hormone levels. But this has been studied. It doesn't seem to increase actual muscle mass. Lean body mass can go up, but mostly that's a lot of water and glycogen when studied here. It's not good for strength. It's not good for VO2 max. And so from kind of like predicting whether or not this is likely to be true, raising human growth hormone in and of itself does not seem to be like a very anabolic or like performance enhancing sort of mechanism to me. We know that fasting, for example, increases human growth hormone. Exercise itself increases human growth hormone. But these are mostly related to energy status rather than like tell your muscles to grow or tell your body fat to decrease. Yeah, I just, I'm not really sold on like, we should try to be maximizing human growth hormone for this application. You wonder how popular it would be if it had been named something else from the beginning or if it's the name that makes it, you know. Growth. Right? Yeah, yeah, exactly. It has good branding. Yeah, exactly. All right, we're gonna move on to the next agent. So that was CJC-1295. This is another growth hormone sort of stimulating product called Ipomerilin. This is billed as the cleanest peptide for growth hormone. Proponents argue it is the only way to boost your growth hormone levels for better sleep and recovery without the hunger pangs, stress or water bloat associated with other peptides in this class. As far as the evidence on this, human data certainly confirms its selectivity and safety, but it failed its primary clinical endpoint of improving gut motility after surgery, which is why it was abandoned by pharma. And there's zero human data for muscle growth, body fat loss or other outcomes. As far as side effects go, it seems to be pretty safe. No spikes and cortisol prolactin or increase in hunger or anything like that. So it does seem to increase growth hormone in humans, but I'm not really sure again that that does anything. It's kind of like a mechanistic bet. Yeah, it increases growth hormone, but what does that do? It's just using a mechanism to predict an outcome that doesn't really seem to be there. Even when people are getting the actual thing, you're trying to increase, which is human growth hormone. And there's no long-term trials here. So I don't know, what do you think about this? Yeah, I don't think that either of us are volunteering to use this or to experiment with it ourselves. But for example, if we contrast it with the last example, this one certainly seems a lot more promising, even if it's just from the safety standpoint. And so yeah, to be more confident with using something like this for performance enhancement or if somebody was looking to do that, or if one of us was interested in something like that, we would certainly prefer to see compelling human evidence. And I think that the idea that we're gonna get very long-term human trials on any of these things is super unlikely. And so you could probably just paint with a really broad brush and say, there's not long-term trials really in any of these. Even if you had a shorter-term human trial, that would be preferable to having none. And so that would ideally be the next step. And so I wouldn't be surprised given that, hey, this does seem to do what it is build at doing mechanistically at the receptor level and things like that. Seems like a promising agent that, with the right incentive, somebody might study a little bit further to better characterize because if it does, in fact, even offer any advantages over giving actual human growth hormone, the recombinant type that might be used in patients with growth hormone deficiencies and things like that, then cool, then there's a clinical use for it. But not for us at this time, but I can see why people might gravitate toward it. Yeah, yeah, I think if there was a good signal that did something, then you would see it progress through the clinical trial phases to phase three, and then ultimately make it to market. And then you would have some long-term, phase four observations here just to see like, oh, look, people who have taken this drug for a year or two years, here's the outcomes. But yeah, I suspect that wouldn't happen unless there's some promising initial data. Unfortunately, it's been abandoned. Yeah, so CJC and IPA-moralin are the injectable options, but the industry knew that if they wanted to reach the mass market, they're gonna need a pill. That brings us to MK-677. This was the first drug designed to successfully bypass the needle while still hitting the growth hormone axis. This is billed as the ultimate oral mass builder. The market is a pill that gives you the recovery of human growth hormone, plus a primal hunger that allows hard gainers to finally eat enough to get massive. So you can kind of think about this as a sustained hunger memetic, because it does bind to the ghrelin receptor. Now, if you remember, ghrelin tends to increase hunger, but when you stimulate this receptor, it also tends to increase growth hormone. So when you fast, for example, or you're between meals, your human growth hormone levels go up. It's just kind of an energy balance-related signal. And so by stimulating this receptor, you also get an increase in growth hormone. So on the one side, this signal hits the hypothalamus to increase hunger, that's ghrelin's sort of one of its functions. On the other side, it also tells the pituitary gland to release large, frequent pulses of human growth hormone. They basically balance each other out, though, so there's apparently no significant increase in fat mass. So you have more hunger going on, people may consume more calories, but the increase in growth hormone does seem to prevent any additional weight gain. As far as the evidence on this, that's kind of what was found. There was a landmark one-year study in healthy seniors. 25 milligrams of this peptide, MK-677, increased IGF-1 levels by 60% and lean body mass by about one kilo. Concerns about whether or not this was actually skeletal muscle mass, again, that's the problem, lean body mass is not just muscle tissue, it's everything that's not fat. So that includes things like water, bone, visceral organ tissue, glycogen, et cetera. So not sure if this is really skeletal muscle tissue. And again, there was no increase in fat mass, like we said, despite the increase in appetite. And the reason why there was this concern that the lean mass increase wasn't actually muscle tissues because there was zero improvement in strength, power, or physical function in these seniors. So the active muscle tissue to me was likely water and glycogen, or like bloat rather than quote, functional muscle. We see that in other studies on actual human growth hormone and other agents in this class. So yeah, to me, I think this agent, while it does avoid fat gain, which we would be against generally speaking, it comes with a high metabolic tax. By constantly mimicking hunger and raising growth hormone, it forces the body into a state of physiological insulin resistance. In trials, participants saw a significant rise in fasting blood sugar and hemoglobin A1c. That's a measurement of what your blood sugar has been like over the past few months. It essentially trades the aesthetic problem of body fat for the clinical problem of prediabetes. Other common issues include severe quote, moon face, which is like edema of the face, and again, joint pain, arthralgia. So Austin, we're seeing these young adults and others taking this peptide for months at a time. If a patient shows up to your clinic or you have an online sort of consultation with them and they've got a rising hemoglobin A1c, they've got a puffy face with edema from this peptide, how would you explain the long-term risk to someone who's only focused on scale weight? Yeah, I think while it might be tempting to just write off the bat, tell the person to stop, we know that that doesn't tend to work very well, and you might immediately ruin your rapport with the person, and they might never come back and see you again. And so I would just, as I have talked about before, with respect to behavior change and belief change, ask like, why are you taking this? Tell me your thought process, tell me your reasoning, tell me your goals, tell me how you got there, and then kind of what are they experiencing while they've been on it, and are there any downsides that they have experienced? And then from there, I might be able to tie in my concern specifically that they're developing insulin resistance, which, despite nearly whatever aesthetic effect that they might be enjoying, maybe, maybe not, that insulin resistance is something that is at the root of so many different diseases that are very common these days, can lead to potentially devastating long-term complications, ranging from stroke and heart attack to many other things as well. So I would just, yeah, elicit the person's beliefs and goals, and then see if I could tie in my concerns and see if I can get them on board with the idea of, hey, maybe not the move here. Yeah, you're trying to basically build this therapeutic alliance with the person, so you can't ride out of the gate and say, yeah, not only does this thing not work, I have concerns about its safety, more so trying to figure out, why do they believe what they believe? And then seeing if they're, like you've mentioned so many times, are there any threads to pull on here? Yep. All right, the last compound in this anabolic mirage category, these are, again, these are drugs that increase growth hormone, it's tessamorellin. Now, this is the only FDA-approved drug in this list, it's for lipodistrophy or abnormal fat distribution in individuals with HIV. It's marketed as a targeted visceral fat assassin that specifically strips away the hard, dangerous fat around your organs and maybe reveal your six pack while improving your memory. So a lot of interesting stuff that it claimed on Reddit, that's where I scrubbed for what claims are being made about these agents. As far as the history of this drug, it was developed by Thera Technologies and it was FDA-approved in 2010. It was created again to treat HIV-associated lipodistrophy, patients on early antiretroviral therapies, those are medications used to treat HIV. They were developing accumulations of visceral fat and it's bell-  belefat that couldn't be solved by diet and exercise alone. So visceral fat cells, again, belefat, they're incredibly sensitive to growth hormone. Tessamorellin stimulates a powerful, pulsatile release of growth hormone that appears to go straight to these belefat reservoirs to burn them off. And there's good to human data on this. It successfully reduces visceral fat by 18% in HIV patients on average, but there was no weight loss. There was also a phase two clinical trial for executive function in seniors, although these results were not conclusive, showing really no significant effects compared to placebo, but potentially something there. And again, there's no data on performance in other individuals. Like if you're a healthy young person taking this, does it increase your lean body mass? Does it decrease fat mass? We don't know. As far as the toxicity goes or side effect profile, it's well characterized. Point pain is a potential sort of side effect and a relatively mild increase in blood sugar. So there's some concern there, but less than the other agents. So to summarize, this is an FDA approved drug for reducing visceral fat. The problem that is most reported on Reddit for this particular agent is that it's very expensive. It's thousands of dollars a month for pharmaceutical options. However, many wellness clinics and specialized providers offer research chemicals or compounded versions that are around 200 to $600 a month. Interestingly, we have new medications that are actually better than this drug for reducing visceral fat like tersepityde, zepbound, manjaro, even ozampic and wegovi. They not only cause more weight loss, but and because they cause more weight loss, you get more reductions in belly fat on top of that. They're also cheaper, appear to be safer and have more like additional benefits than this particular agent. Yeah. I mean, there's the cardiovascular benefits, then the renal kidney related benefits, the liver health related benefits and many others that are being characterized on an ongoing basis. So I'm kind of with you. You know, this is not a drug while I'm aware of it. It's not one that I've ever had to use. And I think the main reason why is that that original indication that it has for HIV associated lipodistrophy is fortunately something that we see less and less of these days. Those original HIV drugs, mainly in the class of what are called protease inhibitors, they call this cause this horrific metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance and visceral fat accumulation. Those drugs, we use less and less of these days because we have newer and much better agents to treat HIV that don't come with that negative side effect. There are still other drugs that can cause that type of dysfunction. Some of the drugs in the quote unquote anti-psychotic class that are often used for various mood related disorders and things like that can contribute to weight gain and visceral fat accumulation. So there's still kind of to some extent a need for being able to manage these things. But now we're, as you alluded to, studying, you know, the situation of, hey, this patient really needs a medicine like Olanzapine in this anti-psychotic class that can contribute to this. Okay. Well, if we treat them at the same time with a combination, say, of metformin and terzepotide or something like that, then we can, how much of that insulin resistance and visceral fat accumulation can we ameliorate? Well, maybe even getting the benefits in other ways related to their mental health issues, to substance use, to heart, to kidneys, to liver, et cetera. So that would be my move if I was in this kind of situation. If I had a medical condition that was contributing to a ton of visceral fat accumulation, I'd be looking in those territories before I came to something like this. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. All right. Well, we're going to move on to the next category of peptides, this category I call the healers. We're going to start off with everyone's favorite. BPC-157. So the claims are that BPC-157, it's the holy grail for injury rehab. The claims are that it can physically knit together torn tendons and ligaments in a fraction of the time, allowing athletes to bypass surgery and return to the platform or the competitive arena within weeks. This was isolated from human gastric juices. That's basically the stuff in your stomach by Croatian researchers in the 90s. It was named BPC as an acronym for body protective compound. As far as its mechanism of action, to the extent it's been characterized, you can think of BPC-157 as a fertilizer for blood vessels. One of the reasons that tendons heal slowly is because they have little blood flow, poor blood flow. And it's thought that BPC-157 forces the body to sprout new blood vessels, that's angiogenesis, into the injury site to bring in repair cells. There may be some modulation of the nitric oxide system as well, which can cause vasodilation to further increase blood flow to the area. Now as far as the evidence on this, covered this on a previous podcast, I think it was episode 298, I'll link that in the show notes below. There is zero published human randomized controlled trial data for BPC-157, period. And that includes sports injuries, that includes gut health, anything you want to say, there's no human data on this. Most of this miracle healing evidence comes from rats and from a single research group, the ones that discovered the peptide. There has been a small human pilot study on knee pain, where basically this clinic that prescribed the drug called about a dozen individuals and said, hey, is your knee pain better? And then got an answer, yes or no. That's the only human study on this period. There were phase one and phase two clinical trials conducted for ulcerative colitis in the early 2000s, but the results were never published and development subsequently stalled. As far as like the, does this make sense, you know, test, yeah, sure. Tendons need more blood flow in order to repair and remodel. And BPC-157 brings blood. However, the sheer breadth of the claims around this agent, it heals the brain, the gut, the bone, muscles, tendons, corneas. That's biologically suspicious to me. A drug that heals everything usually does so by overriding safety checkpoints like apoptosis, which raises long-term safety questions. So, and on top of that, when I see something that does everything, I kind of initially think, maybe it does nothing to be honest. What do you think about that? Yeah, that's, I have a similar question. Yeah, that's, I have a similar take when I see something touted for everything. It's, although the caveat is that is when we do not have clear evidence indicating that it does those things because somebody might hear you and then say, well, if I rewind like two minutes, I just heard you talk about GLP-1 receptor agonist helping with, you know, heart and liver and kidneys and neurologic stuff. And I think part of the difference is that there is a shared underlying mechanism of all of the conditions there that are being addressed, oftentimes related to excess body fat and insulin resistance and some inflammation and things like that. And so by targeting that systemically, we're seeing benefits in multiple different organ systems. But most importantly, aside from all that mechanistic stuff, is we have human randomized trial data showing that people die less. They have fewer heart attacks, they have less kidney failure, they have better outcomes with respect to fatty liver disease and things like that. So that we have that at least that we can point to. Here if there's a lot of claims about it having significant, you know, health benefits across all of these different systems, I'm open to the possibility that there is something there, but you kind of have to show me, you have to convince me. And it requires more than just mechanistic kind of hand waving or speculation or saying it should do this or it should do that because the history of medicine is littered with things that we thought should do something beneficial and then either turned out to do nothing or in some cases actually did quite a lot of harm to people instead. And the other aspect of this that you mentioned, you know, some of the stuff that came to mind is like, oh, if it helps by increasing blood flow to tendons, there's a lot of ways to do that, right? It doesn't have to be this particular peptide. So if that's the only mechanism that you're promoting, I have some questions and I'd want to see like, okay, is it better than activity because that can increase blood flow. There are even people who use topical nitrates on tendinopathy. I have my skepticism about the use of topical nitrates for tendinopathy, but that's another way causes vasodilation, increases blood flow, things like that as well. So we've come at this problem a bunch of different ways. And so it's one where again, it's like, okay, well, if we can at least feel confident that there is safety here, then I'm open to the possibility of further exploration. But before I make confident claims or certainly before I recommend it and definitely before I prescribe it from a source of unclear quality, then I just want to feel better about that instead of hawking it over confidently with underdeveloped backing. Yeah. So overall the safety in humans is unverified and that's even before we get into efficacy. But the FDA recently banned it from compounding, citing significant safety risks like immunogenicity. This effectively banned legitimate U.S. compounding pharmacies from creating it, pushing users to the black market. So like research chemical sites. So Austin, quickly, what is immunogenicity and why is that a concern? Immunogenicity is something we've talked about a couple of times before. I think if people want to go back to our episode on exercise as it affects the immune system, this is probably from a couple of years ago now, but immunogenicity refers to the ability of a substance, an antigen, a drug, an exposure, whatever the things that is stimulating to actually provoke an immune response in the human body. And so when the body recognizes something as foreign, again, it could be a drug, it could be a pathogen, it could be not a pathogen, but something you're allergic to, it could be even your own body if you have an autoimmune disease. Then it produces antibodies and other kind of immune effectors against that thing. And so the more it kind of revs up your immune system, the more immunogenic we would describe it as being. And so, you know, in this situation, if you're injecting a peptide or a drug and that drug itself is immunogenic to itself, then you can generate antibodies to that very substance. And those can be binding, meaning that they bind the drug and can accelerate its clearance because the body says, look, this drug is now tagged. With all these antibodies indicating that I need to get rid of this, or it could be neutralizing where it doesn't necessarily bind it and accelerate its clearance, but rather prevents it from having the effect that it wants to have. And so if a drug or a substance that we're giving somebody itself is immunogenic, then we have concerns that it is going to be ineffective altogether or it might progressively lose its efficacy as the immune system learns to either prevent it from doing its thing or accelerating its clearance by way of antibodies or other immune mediated responses. To put a finer point on that, the FDA didn't just move BPC-157 to Category 2 because they're being cautious. They specifically cited that the risk of these synthetic versions is that it could trigger the body to create antibodies that cross-react with our own endogenous proteins. Now, in plain English, you aren't just risking the drug not working, you're risking a scenario where the immune system starts attacking your own body. We were talking about a potential autoimmune response for a drug with no human evidence of efficacy to date. I can already hear or envision the people who love this compound. They think it healed the rotator cuff. It healed their knee tendinopathy very quickly. They say, well, look, it works, and I don't care what you guys say. And it's like a lot of things improve pain, time improves pain, a lot of different placebo-mediated things improve pain. And so just because it, quote, worked for you, does not, we should not attribute that to the actual compound itself, especially if we're trying to make broad recommendations to individuals. I have serious concerns about that. Yeah. This has also been a recurring topic for us. I'm not here to argue with people's experience if they say it worked for them and they're willing to spend the money, take whatever risks there are. I've had patients who decided, hey, for one guy who I remember years ago, decided, hey, he has bad enough shoulder osteoarthritis and he was willing to do pretty much anything except get a shoulder, you know, arthroplasty or a shoulder replacement. So he flew down to Central America and got like stem cell harvests done and then flew back a few months later and then got him injected back in his shoulder. And I'm like, okay, like there's going to be, I would expect a pretty significant placebo type response because of all the cost and expense and time and effort that went into that. But I also know of a lot of tropical and exotic infections that I see coming from patients in South and Central America as well, just because that's, you know, something that happens in those parts of the world. Of course, we have our own too in North America and everywhere else has its own type of distribution of these things and complications. And indeed, you know, spinal, epidural, steroid injections, various other types of joint injections over the years, stem cell injections have led to documented infectious complications and things like that as well from contamination or improper technique and things like that as well. If somebody says, hey, I'm fine with all those risks, those things are treatable on the back end, I'll survive it, whatever it's like. Okay, then you are entitled to make those decisions. So, you know, once somebody is adequately informed on these things, I actually don't take like personal afferent if somebody decides to pursue something of their own pollution. That's fine. I'm just here to be an advisor. Yep. Yeah, I like that. So to me, overall, BPC-157, it's the wolverine that hasn't crossed the species barrier yet. The rodent data is spectacular, perhaps too spectacular and it's heavily concentrated from a single research group. The lack of human trials after 30 years of research to me is a massive red flag in addition to like sourcing it from a trusted place rather than research chemicals off a shady website. Yeah, I'm with you. You know, the hardest part of training isn't doing all of the workout. It's the 30-minute argument I have with myself afterward about what I'm going to eat. I'm thinking, must consume protein and carbs, but also must not spend an hour cooking a massive meal. Especially this time of year, holiday season is crazy. A lot of dinner engagements, a lot of travel, a lot of having friends over. Finding the time to cook something actually good can feel like an extra workout. But that's why I love Factor. Their chef-prepped, dietitian-approved meals are basically cheat code for a busy, goal-oriented life. You peel back the film, you heat it up, and you're eating something comforting and delicious that actually helps you stay on track, not derail you. And they keep getting better. First, the variety is ridiculous. I'm talking premium seafood choices like salmon and shrimp at no extra cost. Second, they're dialing in the nutrition goals that you care about. If you're tracking macros, you can hit those GLP-1-friendly goals. Or if you're wanting a new Mediterranean diet option packed with protein and healthy fats, Factor has your back. Look, 97% of customers say that Factor helped them live a healthier life, and that's a stat I can trust. I use this myself, and frankly, I wish I'd started using it sooner. It saves me a lot of time and a lot of money from eating out so much. If you're ready to save time and eat smart, go to FactorMeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first box plus free breakfast for one year. That's code BBM50off at FactorMeals.com for 50% off your first box plus free breakfast for a year. Get delicious, ready to eat meals delivered with Factor. This offers only valid for new Factor customers with code and qualifying auto renewing subscription. You know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition, or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning, and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, figs makes scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus, they're antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. Figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers, they make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet, and they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an ice box. And with the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because figs just dropped a ton of new, limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare or you want to shop for a loved one who is, figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at WearFigs.com with the code FIGSRX. Time is precious and so are our pets. So time with our pets is extra precious. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24-7 access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow-ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments and shipping is always free. With Dutch, you'll get more time with your pets and year round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just $92 a year. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year is over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards barbo medicine coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit by the way. Your accountant will apply for it. Your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not ride away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long-term health and performance instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to barbomedicine.com, choose your plan, and at checkout, select Flex Pay with HSA, FSA. Because those dollars were meant to make you healthier and that's exactly what we do. Barbo Medicine, evidence-based training that pays off. Literally. I think that if you're dealing with a nagging injury and realizing that you're going to need a real management plan, you can head over to barbomedicine.com and check out our rehab templates. These are evidence-based programs designed by our clinical team to help you get back training without the risks of unproven research chemicals. Also, our pain and rehab team, they're the best in the game. And if you need one-on-one help, they're happy to do so. Next, in the healing group, we're going to talk about TB-500. And the leap here is that this is an eyedropped drug that individuals who are in the healing group are going to need to be able to get back to their training. That the individuals have decided to inject into a quadtare, thinking it could work to repair their muscle fibers. But there's really no data to support this. It was isolated in 1981 and it is essential for how to repair wounds. So there's human data for surface wounds. So venous stasis and pressure ulcers. There's two face-to-randomized controlled trials that found that topical gel accelerated healing by nearly a month in patients who received TB-500 compared to placebo. However, it did not always show a statistically significant difference in the total percentage of patients who achieved wound closure. It also failed phase two clinical trials to help cardiac regeneration after a heart attack in humans, despite miraculous results in mice. There's zero human data for muscle tears at all. As far as toxicity concerns, chronic use may carry a theoretical cancer risk at a high level. It does not have a high level of risk. It has cancer cells hijacked the same slippery mechanism to spread to other organs. We call that metastasis. So some theoretical risk there, but again, no data on it overall. To me, the data isn't awesome for humans outside of some eye conditions and maybe some surface wounds. Otherwise, it's unproven. It does share the same tragic fate as stem cell injections for joints. But generally not so impressive results in high quality human trials. And then there's another problem. TB-500 is a synthetic fragment of the full peptide, which is thymosyn beta 4. That's what's been used in the clinical trials above, but the gray market primarily sells the fragment, TB-500. So we're seeing people take this fragment of a protein and assuming that it does the thing that the whole protein does. Austin, have we seen other instances in medicine where a small peptide fragment failed to live up to the parent molecules reputation? I mean, biology is just really complicated. Proteins can get sliced and diced in all sorts of different ways, and that can lead to differences in the downstream function, again, depending on how these proteins get cut up. So in clinical practice, the things that I kind of see and use on a regular basis that have some variation, despite kind of a shared origin, are things, like peptides in the body like BNP or brain type natural uretic peptide, and the NT-proBNP, which is kind of a cleaved variant of that. And then similar, another one has to do with the idea of pro insulin getting secreted and getting cleaved into insulin and then C-peptide as well, which are different things that do not share the identical effect, even if you might assume that they both indicate the same thing. They're going to have different levels, different interpretations, different clinical uses. So yeah, not a safe assumption to say that, hey, this tiny piece of the fuller protein is going to deliver the same clinical effects just because it's part of the bigger daddy molecule. Yeah, can you imagine if these research chemical sites, instead of selling insulin, they sold C-peptide, and they're like, look, this will lower your blood sugar, way to optimize your nutrient partitioning. It's like, if you gave an individual diabetes a ton of C-peptide, it does nothing because it's not an active fragment. Yeah, I agree. All right, moving on to the next one is GHK-Cu, this copper peptide. Now the claims here are that this is the ultimate biological reset for aging. Proponents argue that it restores the skin's youthful snap. It rescues hair follicles from dormant states like balding and acts as a software update for your genes, instructing cells to prioritize repair and collagen production, overscarring and decay. Man, Reddit's wild if they're making all these claims. I've never heard of this thing, so this is an education for me. All right, so this is isolated in 1973 by Dr. Lauren Pickart, who noticed that plasma from young donors made liver tissue from older donors behave as if it were decades younger. So you can think of this peptide GHK-Cu as a copper courier. Now your body needs copper to build the structural scaffolding of your skin and hair, but free copper is toxic and hard to transport around the body. This peptide acts like a specialized armored truck that picks up copper and delivers it directly to the cellular construction crews. As far as the data on this, human data for wound healing is pretty significant. A 2% topical gel significantly increased ulcer closure in 120 individuals with diabetes. For cosmetic skin quality, the data for wrinkles and skin rejuvenation is not quite as good. There was a trial of 71 women that showed that there was increased skin density and thickness with use of this agent. But these studies are small, they're short term, less than 12 weeks and rely on surrogate markers like ultrasound density or subjective grading scales rather than long term dermatological outcomes. Things that we can measure reliably. This is the same problem we saw with collagen supplementation. It's like skinny elasticity and then you look at the actual test and you're like, well, this test actually doesn't seem very good. Even though it improves the outcome of that test, does it actually improve how people look in some sort of way that we can reliably measure? As far as toxicity goes, it appears to be pretty safe when applied topically. When injected, it's notorious for a burning sensation at the site. Toxicity at typical doses is unverified, but theoretically could carry a risk of copper toxicity, I suppose. To summarize, I think this is probably fine as a topical agent for wound healing. The skin data I am not convinced on. There's no human data for any sort of systemic performance improvement or recovery from injury. To me, it's kind of like vitamin C. We know that we need it for collagen production and if you're deficient in it, that can hold things up. But mega-dosing it doesn't seem to make it work any better and can in fact cause some harms. Interesting presentation that you put together on this one here so far. I would have certainly less concerns about somebody who wanted to use this compared to some of the other ones we've talked about so far, especially if it was isolated to topical use. I think anything systemic that you're injecting with essentially no or very limited human data, typically in most situations, is going to carry a little bit greater potential risk. But yeah, this one seems more benign, I suppose. Yeah, especially if someone was doing it topically, I'd be limited amount of pushback, but injecting it, I'm like, are we sure that that's a good idea? But again, important not to break the therapeutic alliance. Moving on to the next category, these are the metabolic modulators. Starting off with one of the hottest new drugs, it's likely to be approved soon. This is retachritide. This may be the Godzilla of weight loss. It's presented as metabolic bariatric surgery in a vial, claiming to melt away nearly 30% of your body weight, not just by stopping your hunger, but by actively revving your metabolism like a furnace. So this is a triple agonist from Eli Lilly currently in phase three trials. They just wrapped up, I think, the Triumph study. The mechanism of action, it's similar to Monjaro, Zephound, and those are the two sort of agonists, the GLP-1 and the GIP agonist, but retachritide adds a third signal, which is glucagon. This tells the liver to actively dump fat and burn calories for energy, really mostly heat in this case. So it addresses both sides of the calories in versus calories out equation. As far as the human data on this is pretty good. They just wrapped up Triumph 4. This showed an unprecedented 28.7% weight loss at 68 weeks. This was for individuals with obesity and knee osteoarthritis. So in these individuals, yeah, the average weight loss was 28.7% up to 71 pounds at 68 weeks. And beyond just weight loss, it reduced knee pain as measured by the WOMAC scale by 76%, demonstrating that the weight loss and potentially other effects of the medication improved pain experience. By comparison, the placebo group only lost 2.1% of their body weight. It also has some interesting effects on metabolic associated steatic liver disease, also known as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. They had a phase two trial on this and it showed a pretty impressive clearance of liver fat that had been accumulated. Over 85% of patients achieved complete resolution of the fat that was in their liver. That's defined as having less than 5% liver fat at 48 weeks, which we think is due to the glucagon receptor agonism that this drug adds. As far as the toxicity and side effect profile, unfortunately, there does seem to be a higher side effect profile, particularly at max doses. There was an 18% dropout rate in this latest trial and it does seem to increase resting heart rate by about 5Bs per minute, which does require some monitoring. So there are some concerns there, particularly at max doses. To me, retachritide represents a massive shift in how we approach fat loss. Now what makes retachritide so different from the previous generations of anti-obesity drugs is that third signal, the glucagon receptor. While older drugs mostly focused on slowing down the gut and telling the brain that you're full, this is actively increasing energy expenditure through thermogenesis. It's essentially turning up the heat in the fat cells and the liver. In the past, the only way we knew how to rev the engine was through stimulants like ephedra, which essentially dumped adrenaline into the system to force a higher heart rate and a higher metabolic rate. Ultimately, the person would burn more calories. But retachritide achieves a similar metabolic increase, but it does so through hormone signaling, specifically the glucagon receptor rather than a catecholamine dump. Now Austin, when you see a drug that is revving the engine this hard to clear liver fat and drop weight, what are your primary concerns regarding cardiovascular stress, if any? Yeah, I would say a few things. I share your enthusiasm and for this medication, I think it is, if we're calling it a peptide as part of this podcast, it is likely to be super effective and super beneficial for the population once it finishes up its trials and very likely ends up getting approved. I do not claim to be an expert on the mechanistic implications of glucagon receptor agonism outside of kind of the more general descriptions that we've laid out here. I am more reluctant to characterize it as in any way, meaningfully similar to ephedra. I think that that is probably would would would spook more people off because, you know, anytime in recent years with respect to GLP one conversations, these meds have come up, people say, oh, well, they remember what happened in the 90s, right? And it's like, look, we're in a different time now. We're not seeing the same signals in the data for these medications. And so when it comes to accelerating this or cardiovascular stress, quote, unquote, I have a few thoughts. You're right that a lot of these tend to raise resting heart rate by a little bit. They tend to actually lower quote, unquote, heart rate variability by a little bit of again, unclear real consequences. But those are things that we've noted. Now, if somebody is going to experience harm from that cardiovascular implication, I would expect that the people who are at highest cardiovascular risk at baseline, who are exposed to these medicines are going to be the first to show that sort of harm, right? And the worst would be situations where people, for example, have significant heart failure, especially heart failure with reduced ejection fraction where their heart is not functioning well, not pumping well. They don't really tend to tolerate, you know, crank up cranking up their their heart rate and various other sorts of things. And so in those populations, if we start to see signals of, oh, this is like they're dying more or getting hospitalized more things like that. Okay, then that is a signal that is worth paying attention to. Now, it might lead to, for example, saying that these meds shouldn't be used in that population. And we can study it a bit more in people who don't have heart failure or those who have heart failure but have preserved ejection fraction or those who just have coronary disease in whom many of these drugs have already been studied and actually show benefit, right? And so I'm reluctant at this time to summarize to make any assumptions about cardiovascular implications outside of what the evidence shows us because these are going to be studied on a very large scale in a lot of populations, many of whom either have diagnosed or underlying undiagnosed cardiovascular disease. And so it's going to be a situation where, well, we're just going to see what the outcomes are. It may end up being that the loss in body.  fat improvement in insulin sensitivity, resolving diabetes, resolving fatty liver disease, maybe that outweighs any potential negative effects of a few beats per minute higher resting heart rate. I wouldn't be actually surprised at all if that ends up being the case. So it's a TBD in my mind. I don't have the same types of concerns at the start here as I would have about the drugs that were being used in the 90s or somebody saying, I'm going to use dinitrophenol to try to accelerate my metabolism. That's a totally different category of accelerant. So I'm reluctant to kind of describe this in that way, just to not muddy the waters about how these drugs really work and the potential implications safety or efficacy-wise. How familiar are you with the fen-fen saga? We've talked about it before. That was actually identified relatively quickly at the time in terms of the negative side effects in valvular heart disease, pulmonary hypertension, things like that. Yeah, it's kind of interesting because fen-fen itself, so fen-termine and fen-fluramine, these were both agents that were approved in isolation and then subsequently paired together kind of off-label. So it was not like an FDA approved sort of thing, but effectively there was a single study that was published in the early 90s by an individual showing, look, weight loss with this thing. And that was like early 90s, but it wasn't until later in 96 when a different patentable version of it called Redux got on the market. But there was concerns about valvular heart disease, pulmonary hypertension, stuff like that that were raised prior to it being approved, but ultimately it got passed approval. And then as you mentioned, yeah, pretty shortly thereafter, they were like, no, this does cause problems. We cannot pull it from the market. So there was some regulatory issues there, but if you compare the amount of evidence that was available on fen-fen, the thing that wasn't really FDA approved, and then Redux, the thing that was FDA approved, if you compare the evidence we have on ozempic, wagovie, Zepbown, Manjaro, and even now Rattachrytide to what we had evidence-wise on that, it's overwhelming. Not even close. Yeah. It's not even close. Yeah. So people are like, well, look at the cautionary tale about fen-fen. I'm like, yeah, the cautionary tale is, there wasn't really good evidence on it, and people were using it anyway, kind of like peptides. Yeah. And one of the nice things about these GLP-1 meds, including RETA, that's again, we're anticipating is coming out, is that there is a dose range, right? And people are different, and this has been my experience so far. I've worked with lots of people now on these medicines, and everybody responds kind of differently. And so to the extent that we're seeing maybe a little bit more side effects in some of the trials, that might mean that we adjust the dose range to achieve the intended effects. Some people do just fine on much lower doses, and we don't tend to see those things, and some people need to max it out to get the effect that we're looking for. And that's the beauty of it. You can kind of sliding scale it based on what people need. Yep. Yep. All right. Moving on into the same category, these metabolic modulators. We're moving to a zombie drug, AOD-9604. AOD stands for anti-obesity drug. Austin, you ever heard of this thing? I don't think so. Yeah. Okay. Well, this was touted as the holy grail of fat loss about 30 years ago. Why are we still talking about it? Well, that's a great question. Yeah. If you look on Reddit, this is like a fat burning blade of human growth hormone with none of the metabolic baggage like water retention, risk of diabetes, joint pain, et cetera. It's marketed as a fat melter that leaves the muscle untouched. And so this was developed in Australia in the late 90s as an obesity drug. And so the thought here is that this is a segment or a fraction of human growth hormone. It binds to fat cells to stimulate the breakdown of fat. We call that lipolysis while ignoring other receptors that cause unwanted growth or metabolic damage. As far as the literature on this, human data confirms this drug is a proven failure. In a large 24-week trial of over 500 subjects, this particular drug failed to show statistically significant weight loss over placebo. While safety is pretty good for it based on these human trials, it doesn't seem to work. And so safe and useless is a pretty poor value proposition. I got a lot of things I can suggest to you that have the same effect. Yeah. And so I don't know why people are still using this or advocating for its use, particularly for weight loss because there are so many better options that, again, safety profile is well characterized, monitoring profile well characterized effects well characterized. And oh, by the way, it actually works. Whereas this particular drug, we know that it doesn't work. Yeah, I'll do my favorite thing. I'll just put two graphs side by side, put the 24-week weight loss data of this, just blinded, anonymized. You don't know what the drug, what the intervention is up against blinded, anonymized. You don't know what the drug is. 24-week weight loss data enters appetite. And you just get to pick. Pick which one you'd rather take if your goal is weight loss. Would not be a contest. Yeah. So unclear why this is still being sold or why people are still buying it. I think it's got to be, has to do something with like human growth hormone modulation. People are like, oh, human growth hormone, what if I just need to affect that axis and I'm going to be great. I'm like, hmm. If you're going to do that, like, again, we're very understanding of, you know, people's intense and their goals and things like that here. And if we're going to take a very harm reduction type perspective, it's like, just go on to his appetite and then just take testosterone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We're moving on to MOTS C. Have you ever heard of this? I have actually seen this acronym, but not something that I've investigated myself. Yeah. MOTS C is billed as an exercise in a syringe. The claim is that it replicates the metabolic signals of a five mile run, forcing your body to burn fat, improve insulin sensitivity and build endurance, even if you spend the day sitting on a couch. Now, the biohacking community is obsessed with this being an exercise mimetic. Austin, help people understand the difference between the body producing a signaling molecule naturally during a five mile run versus injecting a massive bolus of it into a otherwise sedentary body. Does the context of the signal matter? Oh, my gosh. My brain goes so many different places when I hear this question. We've talked a lot about the idea of kind of a, it matters how you got there. When we talked about blood pressure, for example, it's like, oh, did your blood pressure go up because you have hypertension or did it go up because you're actively exercising? The same with a lot of other things. When it comes to dietary fiber, did the fiber come in the form of an isolated fiber supplement or did it come in the form of a persistent chronic high fiber whole food dietary pattern does have fundamentally different effects? If the body produces a particular signal in response to exercise, especially with the demands of exercise, then if you take that same molecule and inject it in separately, does it deliver all the same benefits when it is given when there was no demand present in the first place? Kind of reminds me of when we talk about heart rate. Does getting your heart rate up from a panic attack give you the same cardiovascular, aerobic adaptations as actually doing the thing that demanded the heart rate increase? All of these things, the context fundamentally differentiates the downstream health impacts that we can expect. That's not to say that there can be no plausible or potential benefit from an isolated molecular signal like this. Again, I remain open to the possibility pending human data showing it to me, but I will always have a baseline degree of my prior will be a low probability of at least the same benefits as you would expect from exercise because again, the context, the demand, things like that are different. If there's a partial effect, maybe that partial effect is worthwhile if it can be shown because there are some people who maybe are physically unable to meet current physical activity guidelines. If you can get them at least part of the way there, great, fantastic, it's a tool. We are not moralizing around the use of these tools just like with respect to GOP1 receptor agonist when it comes to treating obesity. Show me the effect and then I will put it in context and judge its potential uses. Tell me what you think about this analogy. We talk about fiber intake, for example, or eating fruits and vegetables. We talk about this food matrix effect in that it's not just the fiber that's delivered by the fruits or vegetable, but it also co-occurs with flavonoids, polyphenols, etc. There's more than just the fiber. The food is greater than the sum of its parts. What about an exercise matrix effect? You're getting one aspect of it, but you don't have the entire symphony that you experienced from exercise. You're just getting one instrument and one molecule instead of the whole band. Is that kind of... Exactly. That's it. All right. This was discovered in 2015 and at the time it was a breakthrough because it was encoded by the mitochondrial DNA, the powerhouse of the cell, rather than the cell's main nucleus. What it's supposed to do is when your mitochondria are drained by stress or exercise, the MOTC tells the rest of the cell to turn on powersave mode. In the body, this powersave mode means activating ampkinase, which forces the cell to stop building new stuff and start burning fat and sugar for fuel. Now, as far as the evidence, we don't have any on humans. We know that humans produce this naturally during a workout, but no study has ever shown that injecting it into a human improves fitness. The bottom line on MOTC is that while the rodent data on grip strength and endurance looks incredible, we don't know if that translates to a human being. We're seeing a 12-fold increase in natural MOTC production during exercise, but injecting a synthetic version into a sedentary human is a completely different biological event. Until we see human trials, this is pure speculation. Having an exercise memetic that we could use for individuals who either can't exercise sufficiently or otherwise wouldn't, that would be awesome. We don't know if it works. I'm pretty skeptical on this right now. We need some human data, especially on safety and side effect profile first, and then we need efficacy data. Afterwards, if it passes all that, then I suspect this would be a blockbuster, if true. Yeah. I think that's a helpful paradigm for people to think about when approaching the potential use of these things. First, is it appear to be safe? Second, does it appear to do the thing that it's being claimed to do? Then you get to weigh those things on the back end and decide if it's worthwhile for you in terms of cost and access and all sorts of other things. We are at the very early stages of that journey, it seems here. I'm not sensing that there's an overwhelming amount of active research happening that we're expecting at any time soon. That's what I'm saying. We would have heard about it. Yeah, exactly. There's been a lot of these exercise memetics that have been hyped over the years, and none of them have really panned out. Not yet, but we're hopeful. Yeah. Moving on to 5-Amino-1MQ. Now, on social media and Reddit, this is being sold as a fix for a, quote, broken metabolism. The claim is that it prevents your metabolic rate from slowing down as you age by inhibiting an enzyme called NNMT. Now, mechanistically, by blocking that enzyme, 5-Amino-1MQ indirectly raises NAD plus levels specifically within your fat cells. The theory is that this shifts the cell from a fat storing mode to a fat burning mode. Now, when we look at how 5-Amino-1MQ actually works in these mouse models, it's not just about shrinking the number on the scale. It specifically targets fat cell size. By inhibiting the NNMT enzyme, it prevents the hypertrophy or the over expansion of individual fat cells. In these studies, the mice saw a 30% reduction in total body fat. And here's the kicker. They did this while staying on a high fat diet and without exercise. And I think this is why the biohacking community is likely so obsessed with it. They see it as another exercise in a pill. But we have to be realistic. A mouse in a controlled lab environment is not a human being living in the real world. This kind of goes back to that NAD plus correlation we see with NNM and NR supplementation. Just because you can force a fat cell to behave differently in a rodent doesn't mean you'll see a meaningful change in humans, especially without addressing lifestyle factors. Now Austin, this is exactly why the longevity space is so cluttered right now. We have these incredible mechanistic stories about NAD plus and fat cell metabolism, but the human data just isn't there to back up the hype yet. Yeah, the NR NNM supplementation space is a big one in like anti-aging circles and longevity circles and things like that. And my current understanding is that it has not been proven or shown effective enough at this point in order for me to actually spend the time to learn about it in great detail. Right? If it does not seem to be that potent of an effect for good things that we're looking for in a safe way, then I'm at this point not going to bother. Too busy dealing with actual things that work. So that's my approach. Yeah, there you go. All right, moving on to the lifestyle drugs. We have melanotan 2 and PT-141. Now these are often called the Barbie drugs because they affect tanning, appetite, and libido. Both molecules work on the melanocortin system in the brain, which acts like a master control panel for survival, but they have very different levels of precision. Melanotan 2 is a non selective agonist. It hits the tanning receptors, the appetite suppression receptors, and the arousal receptors all at once. The problem is that it also carries significant side effects, including intense nausea and documented case reports of rabidomyelitis and even kidney failure. By contrast, PT-141, which is also known as brumelanotide, is a much more selective sniper. It's designed to target the receptors specifically associated with libido and sexual arousal, while leaving the tanning and the stress signals alone. In fact, PT-141 is actually an FDA approved medication for hypoactive sexual desire disorder in women. While it is often used off label for men who don't respond to traditional PDE5 inhibitors like biogra or sealis, it is a legitimate pharmaceutical with a much better characterized safety profile than the research chemicals people are buying online. As far as the toxicity side effect profile, the main thing here is nausea with PT-141. It has a 40% rate of nausea. Because it acts on the brain, some men report spontaneous erections that occur without physical stimulation, which can last several hours, but are generally not classified as pre-epism, which don't Google how to treat pre-epism. As far as melanotan 2, this appears to have a more significant side effect profile, case reports of muscle breakdown like rhabdomyolysis and kidney failure. To summarize, I think melanotan 2 may be effective for tanning, but lack safety data and has more red flags than DNP, that infamous often fatal fat burner we did a mystery case on. PT-141 seems to be pretty proven for sexual health, but the nausea side effect is probably what's limited for being like a blockbuster barbie drug or lifestyle drug. Austin in clinical practice, when a drug has that high of a side effect burden, like with the nausea, for a quality of life issue like libido, how do you approach the informed consent conversation with the patient? Yeah, tons of this involves a conversation with the person about what their goals are and how far they're willing to go to achieve those goals. And so if they are at their wit's end and looking for something to help with this particular issue, then that may be a risk that they're willing to accept. I would say a couple things, though, even as part of that conversation, because it's difficult for me to imagine that, oh, I'm taking a drug to really crank up my libido, and then if it's going to make me throw up, that that's going to be the thing that keeps me in the mood. And so that conversation would involve a couple things. One has to do with dosing, because many medicines might have a high incidence of GI-related side effects. It could be a dose response type effect. It could be something that requires a little bit of adaptation to kind of get over that hump. That's actually something that we're seeing with many patients who take GLP-1 receptor agonist. Nausea is the most common upfront side effect that they take, whether at the starter dose or with dose escalations. Sometimes that takes a little bit of time to get used to. Sometimes we use some anti-nausea medicines at the same time as the medicine or the dose escalation to try to mitigate that. And then in this context, where it's probably, I would imagine, something that has like a time component to it, you take it in a particular context, maybe trying it not when you're getting ready so that you don't learn for the first time whether you're in the 40% or not. So starting a low dose separately as a tester might be a way to go. But that would be how I would approach this in practice is like, how far are you willing to go? What are you willing to risk if you're willing to experience some nausea and then testing it out at a low dose separately? And then you can kind of introduce it in the right context to see if it helps you. Yeah, that's a good clinical pearl there. All right, so let's summarize this. It's a little if then sort of discussion. So with respect to peptides, if you want more muscle mass, more muscle hypertrophy, think that peptides right now are a bad trade. Have not seen a good an agent with good evidence for improving actual muscle tissue and subsequent performance like strength, power, etc. So I don't think that that would be a good option to use to gain muscle mass. You mentioned it earlier, you're like, look, if you want to get some of these benefits, just take tersepati and testosterone. It's like, look, we have way more data on anabolic steroids as far as like not only on their efficacy, but also safety and monitoring. And so I think the thought is that, oh, peptides are way safer. One. And then two people can get them without having to go through as backdoor of channels like Vinnie at the, you know, Gold's Gym down the street doesn't have to like give you vials and like a dark corner or dark alley. So, but, you know, I'm not telling anybody to take anabolic steroids. I'm just saying that when I look at the sort of evidence on this, I'm like, well, I know those things work. And I know what to monitor. And I kind of just more well characterized. I'm like, it seems like a better option to be honest. Yeah, I agree. That's it. I have the same take. I'm not going around recommending it, but if I have somebody in front of me who's like, look, I'm gonna take something. I'm gonna take something. What's it gonna be? I'm gonna take the thing we know more about and that I know how to monitor than the thing we don't. Yeah. For injury, again, with respect to peptides, there seems to be some nonzero risk, whether it's high risk, moderate risk, low risk, we just don't know because the data is kind of absent. But the reward is even more unknown. So, I don't think I can recommend using BPC-157 or TV 500. I have concerns about their mechanisms and just again lack of human data for safety, efficacy monitoring. Everything's anecdotal, right? So, that's a problem. And then without any real efficacy data, just seems like a bad trade-off. I would try to optimize load management instead. That seems like a much more successful and less risky proposition. Yeah, to an extent, I mean, both of us have had our share of injuries participating in all sorts of different sports and we've been fortunate to be able to rehab essentially all of them to this point. That is not to say that that is going to be the case for everyone in all circumstances of musculoskeletal injury. And so, I totally understand where your mind can go when you're in the depth, especially of severe pain or persistent pain that is difficult to rehab. You're willing to try a whole lot of things. This would not be very high on my list of things to try, especially early on. It'd be way far down that list. And even then, I have my concerns about it at this point. I wish somebody would... I just see so many people on these podcasts, people who claim that they run clinics and are seeing all these people that are having miraculous results and it's like, would it be so difficult, so, so difficult to even a small pilot placebo control trial? You would be the leader of the field automatically if you just ran one of these things, right? But instead, there are obviously quite lucrative practices that are doling this stuff out. Well, I would say this stuff, but whatever it is, because again, the purity aspect and things like that remains in question when it's being formulated in the way that it is. But you would be immediately at the forefront of this field if you were able to just document these data, show these results, right? We see this in a lot of... Again, I don't want to lump these in with all folks in the quack space, but even during pandemic times, there was all sorts of claims about cures for infections and now there's still people on the internet talking about the use of some of these drugs to cure cancer. And it's like, look, if you're curing all these cancers, if you're curing Parkinson's disease with Fabendazol and stuff like that, I'm like, just document it. You would, again, revolutionize all of medicine because of how common these conditions are. It would not be that difficult if the effects are as large as you say. You actually don't need a very large sample size. You don't even need a very long study duration. Like it would be trivially easy to show with the sizes of effects that you're claiming. Big if true. Very, very big if true. And so that's what we would prefer to see, but we don't yet. All right. So we talked about building muscle and strength. We talked about what happens if you're injured. And then now if you want fat loss and you're in the mep market for peptides, don't buy the zombie. Like AOD-9604 failed clinical trials. And so I think we would both agree, and we've talked about this so many times on the podcast. But if you're an individual who would benefit from one of these anti-Vecia medications, whether it's somaglutide, tersepidide, and potentially a retachrotide when it's approved, there are many avenues for you to obtain this in a way that is not only safe, you know what you're getting, somebody's monitoring you appropriately. But also these things actually work. So like we would recommend that. Probably not a DIY situation, although this is an interesting question maybe. We know that fortunately the prices on these medications are coming down. Right. And so while there's some controversy around compounding pharmacies who continue to make these, even though against the FDA's sort of ruling on this, what do you think about, and there's like pharmaceutical grade versus compounding pharmacy versus research chemical? Do you think there's more risk than benefit for individuals using a research chemical like somaglutide compared to like getting the ozampic or the wigovi? Yes. I think the spectrum follows exactly what you described. If I had my druthers to use one of your sayings, that would be my order of preference if I had to choose. And it would, I see no scenario where I am personally willing to take any sort of research chemical. It's going to be pharmaceutical grade. And then in very rare situations, would I be pursuing compounding? And there would have to be a good reason or justification for it. And there are very legitimate valid reasons to use compounding pharmacies for all sorts of things, whether due to dose adjustments or due to, you know, certain medicines the way they're formulated might contain something that somebody is intolerant of or allergic to. There's all sorts of reasons to do that kind of thing. But research grade, yeah, I can't get behind that for Gen Pop. Yeah. Yeah, I think that just highlighted a, you know, very important takeaway here. You know, we would both recommend pharmaceutical grade stuff. You know what you're getting. Look, the manufacturing standards are much higher. The amount of financial resources to make sure that you have, you know, pure and materials to start with and end with and testing along the way, all of that is like well established procedurally. You don't have that in research chemicals. And interestingly, I don't know if you pulled the study a while ago or if I did, but I remembered it and I instantly went to the right one. So there was some third party testing done of research chemicals in the selective androgen receptor modulator space, so SARMs. And of the 44 tested products, no active compound was detected in four of the substances. Substances not listed on the label were contained in 11 of the compounds tested and only 18 of the 44 products actually had what they said that was on the label in the thing. That's kind of terrifying. I mean, to somebody who is not, you know, in this space or thinking about these kind of things regularly, like I'm imagining, hey, I have a patient with, you know, uncontrolled diabetes in front of me or like they're in diabetic ketoacidosis and I want to prescribe them some insulin to save their life as I do very frequently. If less than half of the patients to whom I prescribed that actually ended up getting any degree of the actual drug in their prescription, that would be bad. That would be quite concerning. And so obviously we're not, you know, in this context, dealing with such acute potential risks like the person's likely to die on the matter of hours if they don't get the thing that I want them to get. But on a longer time span, you could end up with a similar type of thing, whether due to contamination, impurity, or if you think you're treating something that you're actually not treating. So it's kind of a scary stat to see the percentages of like, hey, almost 10% had none of the compound at all. And then a bunch, you know, a quarter had a bunch of stuff that wasn't on the label. That's super concerning. And then, you know, only a tiny fraction had any degree of what it said it had. That's not acceptable in my opinion and not a risk I'd be willing to take personally. Yeah. And that's just the active compound, right? We're going to bring up heavy metal testing, for example, lead arsenic, cadmium, mercury. You know, imagine the cost for like, you know, high performance liquid chromatography to, you know, make sure that it's not in there and scrub the product of any residual agents, you know, for research chemical manufacture. Yeah. Yeah, where's the FDA? We don't know. All right. So Austin, to bring this home, if you had to give a clinical pearl to the person who's currently staring at a vial of a research chemical they bought with Bitcoin, what is the one question they aren't asking themselves that they should be? There are a lot of questions they should be asking, but I think if you had to ask one up front is like, what else could this thing be doing to me besides what I hope it is doing to me? And how many of those potential kind of what we'll call off target effects am I willing to accept in this kind of really gray area of not even medicine, whatever this is? Yeah, there are no biological free lunches. So that does wrap up our deep dive into the world of peptides. As we have discussed today, the gap between the marketing hype and the actual clinical evidence is currently a canyon. While the biochemistry of these molecules is fascinating, the reality is that the gray market carries significant risks from impure manufacturing to unknown long term effects on your endocrine and immune systems. We're not trying to be anti technology, but instead we want to be pro evidence. And right now the evidence suggests that most of these agents remain unproven for how they're being used. If you find this, if you found this episode helpful, please leave us a five star review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum, special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Time is precious and so are our pets. So time with our pets is extra precious. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24 seven access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments and shipping is always free. With Dutch, you'll get more time with your pets and year round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just 92 dollars a year.

=== FILE: Episode #381： How a Supplement Sent a Soldier to the Hospital- A Medical Mystery [ns0GOUBk93o].txt ===

 autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo enough to function. When he finally walks into a civilian urgent care, the nurse takes his blood pressure. It's 180 over 110. Way too high. Then they run a quick chemistry panel and they find out his creatinine is 3.5. His kidneys are shutting down basically. This 23-year-old soldier is rushed to a hospital. The doctors are looking for infections, they're looking for rare diseases from the river, and they're looking for kidney stones. But the answer wasn't in the water. It was in a conversation he had with the guy at the gym about six months ago. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning and strength and conditioning in modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. And today I'm joined as always by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now, Austin, we're ending the year with something a little different. We've been hitting the science hard on peptides, injuries, and sarcopenia. But today I'm bringing you a mystery case. I've got the history and physical, I've got the labs, I've got the imaging, and I have a patient who on paper should have been at the peak of his health. And you're going to be the attending on this one. So I'm going to give you the data as it arrived at the bedside, and we're going to see if you can figure out why a healthy young soldier's body started failing. Now, my prediction, as I said to you off air, I think you're probably going to get this one. I have confidence. Also, I feel like this is something you may have seen before. So the question to you is, are you ready? As ready as I think I'm going to be. Let's start. All right. He says, he says nervously. Okay, well, let's set the stage. Our patient arrives at the hospital. He is a well-appearing soldier, 23 years of age. And again, he looks well, which is the first weird thing, because you'd expect someone who's been throwing up for two weeks to look sick, but he doesn't. In fact, his biggest complaint is persistent, severe jaw pain. Now, he tells you that two weeks ago, he went swimming in a freshwater river. Shortly after that, the GI issues started. So he had nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. And then about a week ago, he started having severe, unrelenting jaw pain, which is what prompted him to seek care. He's actually been using about eight tabs of aspirin and ibuprofen, 400 milligrams a time, for about one week before the presentation. But he continues to have pain. Now, he previously had gone to urgent care center earlier this day, because he was unable to keep anything down. And his jaw pain went to 10 out of 10. Then they found that he had a creatinine of 3.5 and his systolic blood pressure was in the 180s. So they subsequently turfed him to your hospital. Now, naturally, the first thought in the ER was that he was hypovolemic. They thought he was dehydrated from acute colitis or some other waterborne pathogen he picked up in the river. But here's the first data point that kind of breaks that theory. He tells you he's been drinking six liters of water per day, and he's peeing a lot of clear urine, which was confirmed in the emergency department. So they called you. So, Austin, we have this young soldier with what looks like acute renal failure and massive hypertension. Now, the initial history points to a riverborne infection or dehydration, but he's apparently euvolemic and producing tons of dilute urine. So when you see a young fit guy with a blood pressure of 180 over 110 and his kidneys are apparently tanking, all in the context of severe jaw pain, how do you go about building your differential? Are you looking at the river or is your mind going somewhere else? Yeah, this is super interesting. I was not expecting actually most of what you laid out there. There's a lot of different directions you could go because you're right that the initial exposure, the vomiting for two weeks after going swimming, that does suggest some sort of pathogen type exposure. But somebody who is severely dehydrated from vomiting for two weeks generally isn't going to be coming in with a blood pressure in the 180s. So for me, that was an immediate kind of contrary data point. The creatinine of 3.5 could be explained by all of the NSAIDs that he's using, the aspirin and the ibuprofen and things like that. But I'm not going to lock in 100% on that because there are also infectious things that can be acquired that can lead to kidney failure, depending on what part of the world you're in. Certain tropical exotic infections, things like leptospirosis and other things can cause a GI syndrome, waterborne exposure, things like that, and lead to kidney failure among other things. So it is a little bit challenging how to focus on the vomiting because so many things can lead to vomiting. The kidney failure could be related to the NSAIDs, but could be related to something else. So I'm going to actually continue to interrogate that a little bit. The blood pressure is actually maybe surprising to you, the least of my concerns right now. I tend to get much more concerned when people's blood pressure is way too low or if it is so high that it is the direct cause of the patient's problems. So for example, if somebody has such high blood pressure that it's contributing to an aortic dissection or something like that, this level of blood, I mean, sometimes even when patients are actively retching against the blood pressure cuff, it can make the blood pressure readings falsely high. And ER blood pressure readings are, you know, not going to be the most accurate for just, you know, what somebody's resting blood pressure is outside of these emergency situations. So I'm actually putting the blood pressure for now to the side. I'm tracking the creatinine, but not putting a massive amount of focus on it. I think I know where that's coming from. The vomiting is too nonspecific for me to really have a clear sense of what to make of it because it can come from so many different things. And so that leaves me with the jaw pain, which seems to be super localizing. And it's almost the most severe symptom that the person is reporting. And so I'm just going to listen to what he's telling me. And then like, he's telling me I have 10 out of 10 jaw pain. This is the thing that made me go to urgent care today. Not the fact that I've been vomiting for a few weeks. He certainly doesn't feel his creatinine. He doesn't feel his blood pressure, but the more localizing of a symptom that I have, the more specificity it might give me. And so I definitely want to interrogate this jaw pain a little bit further that in most situations is going to involve some degree of imaging. But if I had to, you know, start to generate some sort of hypothesis about what could be going on there, Mike, I'm breaking it down into could it be something inflammatory, for example? Could there be some kind of infection or inflammatory focus in that area, some kind of an abscess in the, you know, head, neck, jaw, mouth type area? Is there a fracture for some odd reason that I would have to then explain? Other sorts of things like that. So that's kind of how I'm, I say, distributing my attention at the moment, first on the jaw, and then secondarily on the other things. The last thing I guess I'll comment on is, it is very odd that he reports to be drinking six liters of water per day. That is a lot. And then putting out a lot of dilute urine. My first question would be like, how confident am I in that history that he is in fact drinking six liters? Do I believe that? I would then do some basic blood and urine testing to get a sense. But that raises concerns about could this patient have diabetes? And there are different types of diabetes. There's diabetes mellitus, which is what most people know about the diabetes related to blood sugar problems that can lead to peeing a lot. And then you drink a lot as a result. And then there's also something called diabetes insipidus that I won't get into details of right now, but we'll bring it back if it becomes relevant, where people are just spontaneously peeing out too much dilute urine and then having to drink to keep up with it. So that's also something I'm tracking, but I'm really focused on the jaw right now, because I'm thinking that given the severity and how focal that is there, that that might give me the best lead points to make some progress in the case. All right. Well, the team runs the workup. They do the urinalysis, a urine microscopy, infectious titers, an autoimmune panel. They do imaging of the jaw. They repeat his blood chemistry. They even do a renal ultrasound to look for obstruction or renal artery stenosis because of the blood pressure. Almost everything comes back normal. He's got no cast, no crystals, no dysmorphic cells in the urine. His renal artery ultrasound is clean. His aldosterone to renin ratio is normal, which rules out most of the obvious secondary causes for his hypertension. But his creatinine is still elevated at 3.5. Now, again, the patient's focus is on his jaw. It's not on his creatinine. It's not on his nausea. He's in agony. His main complaint is his jaw. And it's so bad that he's no longer controlled with ibuprofen or what they were giving him in the ED. He requests opioids just to sit still. And here's where the case gets a little stranger. He's got, again, no fracture seen on imaging of the jaw. And he's got no evidence of infection, no evidence of any other like autoimmune disease or something like that. His kidneys look structurally normal in ultrasound. But in his morning labs, after he was admitted, his calcium started to climb. They actually did a trial of fluid restriction, but his calcium was 13.7 in the morning. Now, Austin, why does this young soldier have a calcium of nearly 14? And how in the world could this tie back to his severe opioid requiring jaw pain? What's your next move for this patient? And you have done a great job finding a case that captures many aspects of my interest here. I feel like. Yeah. So hypercalcemia, this high blood calcium level, you know, among all comers, my first question when I see that type of level is just, A, how high is it? Sometimes I'll see very mildly elevated levels. And that can be seen as something as simple as some dehydration, which was, of course, an initial concern based on this patient's reported history of vomiting, but proved to not be the case upon further evaluation. And so then basically the higher the calcium goes, the more it kind of changes the differential diagnosis or how we tend to think about things. But fundamentally, I want to get a sense of, is there a problem with this patient's parathyroid hormone, which is a hormone that regulates our blood calcium levels, meaning is he inappropriately producing too much parathyroid hormone and that's making his calcium levels go up? Or is this calcium high despite having normal parathyroid kind of function? And so getting a PTH level is the next step here to break that down. My guess is that his PTH level is going to be appropriately suppressed. It's not going to be very high in this situation. I'm sure you'll let me know here in a little bit. And so then other causes, if it is in fact what we'll call PTH independent, meaning his calcium is high for some other reason, then other questions would start to arise. For example, does this patient have vitamin D problems like vitamin D toxicity? Is he taking too much vitamin D supplementation or does he have medical conditions that can lead to excessive activation of vitamin D? There's a whole bunch of those that, again, I could nerd out on, but I will only bring up if they become relevant in a little bit. And then lastly, is he taking some form of calcium supplementation? So, for example, was this patient taking a whole bunch of NSAIDs, gave himself a stomach ulcer and had bad esophagitis and reflux, and then started taking boatloads of TUMs to try to relieve those types of symptoms? And TUMs are calcium carbonate. And you can certainly make yourself hypercalcemic from that. And then what happens when you have high blood calcium levels is something called, it can lead to essentially diabetes insipidus and what's called nephrocalcinosis. So you can end up peeing out tons and tons and tons of dilute urine because the high calcium impairs your kidney's ability to concentrate urine. And so then he has to drink a bunch of water to keep up. So that's one way that I could kind of like craft a narrative that fits how we ended up in this situation with the kidney failure, commonly seen in hypercalcemia, the polyuria, commonly seen in hypercalcemia. The jaw pain, though, is still what's interesting to me and how I tie that in. Because, you know, a lot of times when people have high blood calcium levels related to some problem of the bones, like bony disease, then you can end up with things like pathologic fractures and things like that. But you already told me there was no fracture on his imaging. You didn't really tell me what was seen if there was anything seen on the imaging of his jaw. So I remain a little bit intrigued by that. But yeah, so to summarize now, this high blood calcium level explains certain aspects, his kidney situation, his bland urine testing, the peeing a lot, the drinking a lot. I'm still unsure of what to make of the jaw pain. And so next steps will be checking PTH status, checking vitamin D status, asking him about, hey, have you been taking a bunch of calcium supplementation of any kind, Tums, things like that, or other calcium containing substances. There are also some other drugs that can cause this. But again, I'll feel like I think like vitamin A and a few other things that I'll leave aside for now. But so yeah, tell me tell me what we got next. All right. Yeah. So just to review for the listeners, we've got this young soldier with apparently some acute kidney injury going on. He's got some hypertension and he's got a high calcium level. We've looked at the obvious stuff. Again, the renal ultrasound is clean. The infectious workup is all negative. And so yeah, it doesn't look like he picked up anything in the river, but then they check his parathyroid hormone, as you discussed. Now, again, when calcium is high, these glands usually should be turned off. Appropriately suppressed is the term you use. And so in this patient, his PTH level was just five, which is appropriately suppressed. So the glands are doing exactly what they were supposed to do. They're shutting down because they detected that there was already way too much calcium in the blood. So this kind of rules out a maybe there's something growing on that gland that causes it to go rogue and pump out too much hormone and increase calcium through that mechanism. So then they ordered a chest x-ray. They wanted to look at the lungs and the lymph nodes to see if there was any enlarged nodes, which we call hyalur adenopathy, which might have pointed towards something like sarcoidosis. If you've ever watched house, they said lupus or sarcoidosis always comes up. And that can ramp up vitamin D levels. But the x-ray was completely clear, no masses, no swelling. Vitamin D levels are currently pending. So at this point in the story, the doctors were actually considering performing a kidney biopsy, which basically involves taking a needle, take small pieces of the kidney for testing because the patient's high blood pressure and kidney issues just weren't making sense. But before they went through that procedure, they actually sent a medical student back into the room to do a medical reconciliation, which is basically to say, hey, look, what meds are you taking? What supplements are you taking? It's also another opportunity to do like a little interview with the patient. Now, the patient had already told the doctors he wasn't taking any steroids or gym supplements. However, the student changed the framing of the question. Instead of just asking about drugs or supplements, he asked if they were taking anything natural or healthy over the counter. This is a huge distinction for many people. I'm sure you've run into this, especially as a med student, you get kind of embarrassed. You're like, oh, I didn't ask about that directly. It's like they left out history. So yeah, many patients don't view things labeled natural as medicine, so they often don't mention them. Now, the soldier says, look, I'm just bulking right now. I'm taking a multivitamin. I'm taking vitamin B12. And this one specific supplement I heard about in the gym, I've been taking it every morning for six months because I was told it's the only way to maximize natural testosterone production. So Austin, this is your final clue. The patient is taking an over-the-counter supplement in high doses because of a gym myth he heard about testosterone. Now, combined with a suppressed PTH, a sky-high calcium level, and agonizing jaw pain, what's your final diagnosis for this soldier? Yeah, this is interesting. And so going back to some of the things that were mentioned, yeah, I mean, sarcoidosis is an example of one of those conditions that I mentioned called granulomatous diseases that can lead to over-activation of vitamin D. And so if, you know, his vitamin D levels had been sky-high depending on what type, 25-hydroxy, 125-hydroxy, vitamin D, et cetera, that can help us start to make some progress on those types of conditions like sarcoidosis or certain lymphomas, certain infections that can lead to that kind of thing. The fact that they were considering kidney biopsy is a little bit interesting to me. I don't think I would have been in that space mainly because you told me that his urinalysis was totally benign. And so it did not really point to a primary kidney disease as the cause here. So I would not have been in that space. I would have, as I mentioned in the last kind of step, doing exactly what was done here, going back and talking, grilling him about everything that he was potentially taking. Now, if I think through, you know, what types of drugs, supplements, things like that, that can lead to increases in blood calcium level, there are a handful of commonly used drugs that we know that can lead to hypercalcemia. I mentioned a few of them, things like certain types of blood pressure medicines, like thiazides. I think lithium can play a role. Again, vitamin A, I think has some relationship there. There are a few others. I would be actually probably doing some searching of my own, looking through what sorts of supplements do people take regularly to boost testosterone that can contribute to that. I think, you know, you hear so many things in the fitness guru and like testosterone optimization space that people take. I've heard of things like, of course, zinc. I've heard of people, of course, taking vitamin D to increase their testosterone. I've heard of people using like boron to increase their vitamin D levels. I've heard of, you know, many other ones. And so narrowing that exactly down and tying that into the jaw pain, this is actually a point where I would be having a little bit of trouble predicting it outside of doing some searching or just like, obviously the patient telling me what he's taking and then like cross-referencing that on the internet with potential contributions to hypercalcemia like this. Okay. Well, I'm going to give you one final clue. I know I said that was the final clue, but this is the actual final clue, final, final clue, the final boss. So the lab finally calls the floor. They had to dilute the sample multiple times because the levels were off the charts. The serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level is unquantifiable, listed as greater than 200 nanograms per milliliter. Does that help you with your diagnosis? Yeah. Dude's taking boatloads of vitamin D. In fact, the diagnosis is severe hypervitaminosis D. A patient reveals that he's been taking at least 10,000 IUs or international units of vitamin D every single day for the last half of a year. I wasn't trying to hurt himself. He was following the advice from a friend at the gym who cited a popular but often misunderstood study suggesting that vitamin D supplementation could skyrocket testosterone levels. My gosh, this is so dumb. The team immediately started him on aggressive fluid resuscitation. His calcium peaked at 13.7, but slowly began to drift down as they flushed out his system. He was discharged for outpatient monitoring, and he agreed to stop taking supplemental vitamin D. They never actually did measure his testosterone levels just to see like- Yeah, I wouldn't have measured his testosterone level either in the hospital setting. This is both not smart, so would not advise people. I'd be curious if they measured a phosphate level. Did you have a phosphate level in the labs that you were able to report? Because that would be also like- I would have gotten this actually far earlier if you had given me that both his calcium and his phosphate levels were high, because that can be a giveaway. And then because PTH tends to make phosphate go down and vitamin D tends to make it go up. So that would have been apparent. Now, the scary thing is because vitamin D is one of these fat-soluble vitamins, it can accumulate quite a bit. And so this is something that can last a long time before it gets better. Sometimes these patients have to get put on glucocorticoids like prednisone actually to try to reduce the associated risk of hypercalcemia from vitamin D toxicity. And that can last for months after people have this kind of thing. And so if this guy was hoping to take a bunch of vitamin D to make his testosterone go up so that he could train in the gym and get jacked, and instead gave himself vitamin D toxicity leading to hypercalcemia, and if he, let's say, required prednisone, really shot himself in the foot there, because he's going to end up on a catabolic steroid until he can get through this period and obviously get his calcium levels down and his kidney function back to normal. So pretty unfortunate, and I think a good cautionary tale against kind of taking excess vitamin D very casually like this. Yeah, pretty interesting course afterwards also. So a month later, his creatinine level was still 2.09, which is high. The kidneys were still struggling. And in this case, it seems like the kidneys were essentially caught in a perfect storm. Now, the primary issue was a massive overload of vitamin D, which pushed blood calcium levels into a dangerous range. Now, the high calcium is already kind of hard on the kidneys, but the situation was made worse by the use of aspirin and the NSAIDs. These medications further restricted blood flow to the kidney and can cause direct damage to the filtering tubes, a condition we call acute tubular necrosis. So yeah, as you mentioned, it's a powerful reminder that even common supplements that are over the counter can become toxic when the underlying physiology is pushed out of balance. Yeah, 100%. It's not super clear to me that he actually had a ton of direct kidney injury related to the NSAIDs if all of his urine testing was completely bland, benign. But as I said, the nephrocalcinosis that you can end up with from chronic exposure to high blood calcium levels can be problematic like this. And so he had a bunch of different potential mechanisms of kidney injury. And so yeah, hopefully backs off of many of those supplements and takes better advice in the future. But scary case. Yeah, three months later, his creatinine was down to a healthy baseline of one. His calcium had been normalized. Six months later, his vitamin D was still at 80, which is on the high end, showing just how long this fat soluble vitamin stays in the system. But here's the really interesting, at least to me, part of the case, and it's also unfortunate. Even after his kidneys recovered, he remained hypertensive. The damage to his vascular system from that period of high calcium appeared to be lasting. So I did some digging, like, how could this happen? It seems like this high calcium level, especially like six months of taking 10,000 IUs of vitamin D per day, it seems like it can act as like a slow moving toxin for the blood vessels. It's like when calcium is that high for that long, it can deposit into the walls of the arteries themselves. Calcium phosphate salts actually deposit in the middle layer, the tunica media, of the arterial walls, which is known as metastatic calcification, which tends to increase this pulse wave velocity and systemic vascular resistance, which can lead to kind of this structural hypertension, if you want to call it that. Like normally, the arteries are like these high quality rubber hoses, they're flexible, and they bounce back with every heartbeat, which helps keep your blood pressure in a healthy range. But because of the period of high calcium, the vessels had effectively been turned into something more like lead pipes, they had lost their stretch. And now because the pipes are more rigid, the heart has to pump much harder to move blood through them, which keeps the blood pressure high. So the kidneys are doing their job again, the hormones are, quote, balanced, but the physical structure of the vascular system has been permanently changed. So no longer treating this temporary imbalance, but he might have to be on some antihypertensives. So Austin, our soldier recovered from his kidney function, but he stayed hypertensive. From a medicine perspective, once this crisis initially is over, he's discharged, what does the cleanup look like for a patient over the next 12 months or so? Yeah, this is interesting. I mean, your hypothesis about the blood pressure, I would call it a hypothesis that's a little bit challenging to prove. Of course, I'd be curious what his blood pressure was like before all this happened, had he just not seen doctors, maybe he had high blood pressure kind of all along. Having diffuse kind of systemic calcification of your arteries at age 23, even with a few months of this, I'm still not 100% sure is entirely the case. I do see that happen, though. I see it much more often, unfortunately, in patients with more either advanced vascular disease in general or patients with bad kidney disease, especially dialysis patients. I've seen a pretty horrible condition called calcifylaxis, where they get that calcification of their blood vessels, and it leads to enough constriction of blood flow to the skin that they can get ulcers kind of developing all over the place from this calcium phosphate deposition. So that's a maybe for me. I do think that there are a lot of ways that we have to control his blood pressure. And so the strategy for that would be fairly actually routine to get his blood pressure down once you've ruled out secondary causes, which they did a pretty reasonable initial evaluation for that kind of thing. As I mentioned, if his calcium level is persistently very high, there's other medical things that are sometimes done. Like I mentioned, sometimes people get put on glucocorticoids, prednisone, things like that. But really, it's going to be, you know, time and letting his body kind of do its job getting off of these things, getting control of his blood pressure, usually with medications, or if there's a secondary cause, treating it. And then not really, fortunately, a ton else. 23-year-olds can be pretty robust and resilient even after going through something as dramatic as this. He seems to have mostly recovered based on the trajectory that you told me so far. Yeah. All right. Well, let's talk about this jaw pain for a second, because I was wondering about it. I'm sure you're wondering about it. The audience probably wondering why. To me, this is fascinating. So tell me what you think about this potential mechanism. So we know that excess vitamin D doesn't just increase calcium absorption from the gut. It can actually drive some level of bone resorption. We usually think of vitamin D as a good thing, but in extreme amounts, it can cause the body to aggressively pull calcium out of the bones and into the bloodstream. So this could explain the jaw pain, not like a dental problem, but rather the physical sensation of his body stealing calcium from his own skeleton, including his jaw, to dump it into the blood. So I looked into this a little bit regarding the jaw specifically. Bone resorption is systemic, but the jaw is a site of very high bone turnover sort of normally. So in cases of extreme bone resorption, which we see in hyperparathyroidism or severe vitamin D toxicity, like this patient, people can develop what are called brown tumors or focal areas of bone loss. And so it's possible that this agonizing pain he felt was his own bone structure being chemically like dismantled from the inside out, potentially causing micro fractures that were missed on routine imaging and changes in the local bone marrow environment from the rapid bone turnover. So I went into like a radiology rabbit hole. I'm like, how often does standard like x-rays miss this? And quite frequently as it's been going on for a long time and is very severe. So it would have been interesting if he got some either advanced imaging or some sort of like radio labeled imaging to suss this out. But I don't know. What do you think about that mechanism? Yeah. So you're right that the jaw seems to be an area of more aggressive turnover. And that's why, for example, when patients are put on certain treatments for osteoporosis like bisphosphonates, we often tend to be a little bit cautious, especially if they have dental work pending, things like that. There's phenomenon called osteonecrosis of the jaw that can happen in those patients where there's some bone that actually dies in the jaw related to the use of those medicines. So we tend to be pretty cautious around that. I haven't heard of this happening from vitamin D toxicity, but if it is accelerating bone turnover, I find that a plausible mechanism. I also am completely unsurprised that just like routine x-rays of the jaw, especially if these are just like routine ER x-rays, and this is not shade at the ER, but rather that those types of x-rays are done pretty quickly. Sometimes even like a lot of ER x-rays are done portable at the bedside and being read, looking for major emergencies by emergency radiologists. And so the really detailed nuances, I wouldn't be surprised if those don't always get caught or if you need some more type bone scan or some sort of like, you know, imaging that looks for kind of cell activity in the area, some sort of nuclear medicine. You know, this is outside getting outside my area of expertise. And in practice, I frequently just get on the phone with a radiologist and I'm like, hey, here's what I'm thinking. Here's what I'm worried about. What's the best scan for me to, you know, to look for this particular issue? And that's what I would be have been doing in this situation to try to figure it out if the plain x-rays were unrevealing, which is, again, not at all surprising to me. So I find that to be plausible, interesting. We know the jaw is a hotbed of bone activity and relates to a lot of these conditions. It's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. Now, if you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep, or cook, Factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dieticians and crafted by chefs that you can eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management, or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet, or even a plant-based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, Factor has you covered. Now, when I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen, and Factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen, and a meal is ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home-cooked meal without the stress. Now, if your schedule is busy like mine, I think Factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first Factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new Factor customers with the code and qualifying auto-renewing subscription purchases. Make healthier eating easy with Factor. That's factormeals.com slash BBM50off. New year, colder days, this is the moment where your winter wardrobe actually has to deliver some measurable results. Quince brings together premium materials and enduring quality so that you stay warm and you look sharp all season long. I look at clothing like a training program.  autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them, and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresh your winter wardrobe at quince.com slash BBM for free shipping and 365-day returns. They're now in Canada, too. That's quince.com slash BBM. Free shipping and 365-day returns. quince.com slash BBM. Yeah. All right, well, let's talk about a little bit of the bro science that ultimately doomed our shit here. One study that gets a lot of airtime, it's been cited a bunch, is this PILS study from 2011. I've seen it actually cited a few times online in the Biohacker and sort of natural testosterone optimization circles. It suggested a link between vitamin D supplementation and testosterone. Now, in the study, a group taking about 3,300 IUs of vitamin D per day for a year increased their testosterone levels from an average of 300 nanograms per deciliter to 380 nanograms per deciliter, whereas those taking a placebo didn't see any changes. So you look at that and you're like, hmm, that's a bump. I want a bump. More testosterone, more gains. There are a few problems with this study. So one, it was not actually designed to test testosterone levels. It was actually a secondary post hoc analysis of a weight loss study. The researchers didn't recruit men to see if vitamin D built muscle or increased testosterone. They just looked back at a small group of 54 dudes who happen to have their testosterone levels measured. Now, in the world of science, when you dig through enough data after a study is already over, you can typically find a correlation with something by sheer coincidence if you look at enough variables. No shade intended, but this is a classic case of data mining being presented as a primary discovery. This happens all the time, unfortunately. The second problem with the study, again, we're talking about 54 people. In a study that small, one or two outliers can completely skew the average. The difference was modest, 300 to 380 nanograms per deciliter, so not crazy. So tiny sample size, the statistical signal can be incredibly noisy there. This is why larger, better-controlled trials and meta-analyses with hundreds of thousands of patients can be better at showing the real relationship. The other problem here is that they used an immunoassay to measure testosterone levels, which is an older type of test that is notoriously unreliable, especially at lower testosterone levels, compared to the new tests we use, which are LC-MS. And then finally, even if we take the study at face value, the increase they found is almost certainly not clinically significant. This slight bump in numbers, which are, they're well within the test's error bars, and the study did not measure, like, muscle protein synthesis. It didn't measure one rep max strength or muscular hypertrophy, body composition, or even symptoms of testosterone deficiency. So, like, a slightly higher number on a lab report, to me, doesn't matter if it doesn't actually change the person's life. We see this all the time. People will take this tiny shift in a surrogate marker, and then, especially with a supplement, and they'll just run with it, market it to the hills. Now, three recent meta-analyses essentially closed the door on this. They looked at the totality of the evidence and found that vitamin D is pretty much a total wash for testosterone levels, regardless if someone has low or normal testosterone levels or low or normal vitamin D levels. So, the analogy I think about here is, like, if you take vitamin D to boost testosterone, it's kind of like trying to fix a car that won't start by adding more gas to the tank. If the engine is the problem, it doesn't matter if your gas tank was bone dry or already half full. Adding more fuel is not going to make the car run. You can keep pumping more and more gas. That's the vitamin D, but you're not fixing the motor. That's the source of the testosterone deficiency. You're just creating potentially a massive spill that could become a fire hazard, or in our patient's case, metastatic calcium deposition. So, Austin, we have this, like, massive industry built on the idea that more is better and that vitamins are typically benign. Walk us through why vitamin D is different from water-soluble vitamins like vitamin C or vitamin B12, and why do you think that natural testosterone marketing, that that machine clings to stuff like this? Yeah, lots of reasons. It's certainly a hot topic these days, even though we've been talking about testosterone for many, many years at this point. So, to the first question, the concept of fat-soluble vitamins is, you know, it has to do with the type of solution that they dissolve best into, whether it's fat or our water-based bloodstream. And water-soluble vitamins tend to last for a shorter period of time in the body and can get readily excreted in the urine as a water-based kind of medium. The fat-soluble vitamins tend to get sequestered in our adipose, in our body fat, and they can sit there for a long time. They're not easily excreted in the urine because we are excreted water and not kind of a fatty. We don't pee out oil as a way to excrete that. That would be a problem. And so the trade-offs there are that, you know, if somebody is completely deficient in, say their diet is completely deficient in water-soluble vitamins, they are more readily going to become deficient in that on a shorter time frame because the intake and output happens on a shorter basis. Whereas the fat-soluble vitamins that tend to can accumulate and get sequestered, you're going to be a little bit more resistant to developing, you know, deficiencies if you have some stores kind of built up in your body fat. The trade-off there is that if you get toxic, if you have too much of it, then it can kind of accumulate and you can have prolonged toxicity. Instead of if somebody overdoses on thiamine, I'm not concerned at all. In fact, I probably intentionally overdose people on thiamine in the hospital all the time because the risks of being deficient in thiamine are so great, whereas the risks of me giving them way too much are essentially zero. And so I err on the side of treating people very aggressively with thiamine when they're at risk for deficiency, if they have, you know, alcohol use issues, things like that. But I don't at all do that with vitamin D. There is no situation where I'm aggressively giving somebody vitamins A or D or E or K being the predominant kind of fat-soluble vitamins outside of very, very, very rare types of situations. And so that's the fundamental difference and one that played out in this patient's case. I totally get, you know, when people perceive a problem or if, in fact, they do have a problem like testosterone deficiency, trying to seek out what basic measures, be it lifestyle, quote-unquote natural, or otherwise can I do to try to improve this. And I don't even fault people who might say, look, I understand what you're saying, that 80, you know, nanograms is not a clinically significant difference, but maybe if I do this to get 80 and I stack it with sleeping better and that gets me 50 and I lose a little bit of weight and that gets me 100, maybe that takes me from 300 to 500 or 600. And, you know, the accumulating effect of multiple small interventions or something like that. I'm like, okay. I mean, it sounds like we're pursuing a generally, we're aiming to pursue a generally healthy lifestyle pattern, trying to, you know, tinker with a lot of small variables and hoping that that adds up to, you know, a generalized improved downstream state of health. I think that that's not a crazy idea, but of course, this is also being done, like as seen in this case, without a good understanding of what are the potential downsides of things like dosage and monitoring and how I'm actually going about this process, right? And so to those meta-analyses, I'm not surprised that it ended up coming out in the wash. There's also some questions of how much does it matter kind of how you got there type picture, right? So if somebody had a vitamin D level of zero, I wouldn't be surprised if maybe having some vitamin D replacement leads to improvements in various other things. But of course, at the same time, my question is like, what led to their vitamin D level being zero? Are they just frankly completely malnourished for some reason? Do they have some undiagnosed, you know, GI pancreatic intestinal disease that leads them to be unable to absorb certain nutrients altogether? And it's not as simple as just, oh, just give them the vitamin D and then it'll fix their testosterone. But maybe a whole bunch of systems can be made to function better if we identify the underlying issue here, right? And the same if somebody's testosterone level is, you know, zero. That's actually the lowest I've ever seen is a testosterone level. Yeah, okay. It's not going to be like take vitamin D and get your level from zero to 80. And it's like, why did it get there? So that's part of why when we talk about testosterone deficiency, we talk a lot about the importance of accurate diagnosis, a proper medical assessment to think through what sorts of things could be contributing, what sort of levers can we pull and how hard should we pull those things? Is there a scenario where I might tell somebody, yeah, we should probably put you on some vitamin D? Yeah, I can see that happening. But that is not really very common for me to say, oh, your testosterone is like mildly low. Let's just get you on some vitamin D and it should fix your testosterone levels. This is more like severe deficiency to help address a lot of issues while I try to get to the bottom of like, why did any of this happen, right? So it's really interesting hearing myself say this because I recognize how often out there there is this view of, yeah, doctors just treat symptoms. They don't look for quote unquote root causes. Meanwhile, here I am saying, hey, I'm curious why we ended up in this state of testosterone deficiency, of severe vitamin D deficiency, et cetera. And I'd rather figure that out and address those things. Whereas a lot of folks in this kind of biohacker optimization space, they're like not really terribly curious about how those things happen. But they rather just like take the zinc and the boron and the vitamin D and the, you know, the SARMs or whatever, whatever kind of stuff to make the numbers look prettier. It's almost like a total inversion of that same perspective when applied in other contexts. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's a good summary. And we know that like lifestyle and general health status play a significant role in both vitamin D levels and testosterone levels. So it's no surprise to me that there's a correlation between the two being low. For example, an individual with excess body fat, not sleeping well, maybe their dietary pattern is not as good as we want it to be. It's no surprise to me that these things trend together and that if you improve somebody's health, that both things will trend back the other way. The real question that we're getting at here is does independent of all of that, adding a vitamin D supplement actually help? I know it'll make the number, the vitamin D number look better, but I have a low pretest probability that doing it will independently raise testosterone levels unless other stuff changes. Totally. And yeah, and certainly like to what we would deem a clinically significant degree, it's not taking, it's very unlikely absent a whole bunch of other lifestyle changes and things like that to say, oh, it's going to take your level from 200 to 500. Like I would deem that to be, yeah, that's legit. That's clinically significant. But, you know, the idea that I'm going to start taking a thousand IU or 5,000 IU or 10,000 IU, please don't take a lot more than that on a daily basis. Or even up to 10,000 IU a day is generally not a great idea for a lot of people. But, but that alone, absent any other changes is going to lead to that level of, you know, change in real life is very, very unlikely. Yeah. All right. Well, let's wrap this case up. I want to pivot to what this means for a person listening to this who's also currently looking at a bottle of vitamin D on their kitchen counter. We've seen the extreme on one side, this young soldier with potential kidney failure and some hypertension. But the subclinical version of this happens more often than people realize. So here are my takeaways from this. One is the testosterone myth, which I think we kind of beat into submission. The engine behind this entire case was the belief that vitamin D is like a pro-hormone for testosterone. As we mentioned, multiple recent meta-analyses have shown that vitamin D supplementation has no significant effect on testosterone levels in men, regardless of their initial testosterone or vitamin D levels. Whether you're vitamin D deficient or not, taking 10,000 IUs a day isn't going to turn you into a pro-bodybuilder. Mostly it's going to turn your blood into calcium soup. The second pearl here is there's some dosing confusion that's happening in the public. One of the most dangerous things to me that's happened in the supplement aisle is the labeling for vitamin D. So in 2020, the FDA began requiring manufacturers to list vitamin D in both micrograms and international units. And so people are often conflating the two. Oh, gosh. Usually it's like 10, 25, or 50 mic pills is a pretty common dose breakdown. Not too often that I see much higher than that. But if somebody's taking 50 mic pills and then taking enough to get 5,000 a day, like that would be, yeah, you get overdosed pretty quick on something like that. Yeah. The math on this is one microgram equals 40 IUs. So if a patient sees a bottle, it says 125 micrograms or whatever, and they think it's a small number, they may not realize that they're actually taking 5,000 IUs per serving. So if they double up because they feel tired or they've read something online or a social media influencer says something, suddenly they're taking 10,000 IUs a day, which can lead to some toxicity. Now, Austin, as a physician seeing patients in the hospital, how often are you seeing them when they come in, they're technically overdosing on a medication simply because they either are misunderstanding the directions or they're taking a supplement incorrectly because the label is confusing? Yeah. Unfortunately, it happens super often. I think this is an era of what we'll call polypharmacy. A lot of people are on a lot of medicines. And statistically, as soon as you're over like three medicines, then your odds of having drug-drug interactions goes way up. And the complexity of dosing ends up getting to be a bigger problem, especially for people who tend to take more medicines, i.e. as they get older. So if you have a medicine that, oh, this one's twice a day, this one's three times a day, this one's in the morning before your meals, you know, don't mix these up. And then people start having side effects. And maybe somebody puts them on a medicine to treat that side effect. And then you're even making it more complex and more interactions. This gets messy really fast. And unfortunately, you know, sometimes I'll spend a week working on the wards in the hospital and I'll just take stock of, you know, how many people have I admitted because of a complication of a medicine that they're taking? And it is unfortunately high proportion of the time where people might come in for dizziness or falls or vomiting or kidney issues or, you know, liver issues or something like that related to something that they're taking, which may have been, you know, most of the time is being prescribed, obviously, with good intent, not nefarious intent, but sometimes with insufficient caution or insufficient monitoring or insufficient explanation or instruction or things like that. And so, yeah, to some extent, it's on us. Of course, to some extent, it's on the patients, too, in terms of their responsibility to, you know, adhere to these things. But oftentimes it comes down to inadequate explanation, education and like shared plan formation of how are we going to go about this? And people can suffer problems as a result. So especially when there are supplements that are not reported or asked about that also get thrown in the mix, then you can augment that risk as well. So it's a it's a complex world and something that unfortunately I see actually pretty often. Yep. Yep. All right. The next pearl is something we kind of talked about already, the fat soluble trap. So as Dr. Baraki said, unlike vitamin C or B vitamins, where you essentially just pee out the excess, vitamin D is fat soluble. It stores in your adipose tissue and has a long half-life. Now, our soldier in this case had elevated levels six months after he stopped taking the supplement. So if you overdo it, you can't just detox it out in a weekend. You're stuck with those levels for a pretty long, slow recovery. Now, in a recent review by Bullion, they kind of explain the molecular why behind this soldier's crisis. So we talk about vitamin D. We're usually just looking at the total number on the lab report. But this particular review highlighted free vitamin D hypothesis. Most of our vitamin D is carried around by a specific transport protein called vitamin D binding protein. You can think of this as like a taxi service for the hormone. As long as vitamin D is on the taxi, in the taxi, it's mostly sequestered and safe. But our patient was taking 10,000 IUs a day for six months. He essentially saturated every single taxi in the bloodstream. So Austin, you can weigh in on this. We spend so much time talking about the left side of the curve, the deficiency side, but our patient was on the right side, you know, excess. When we look at this from a molecular level, why is it so dangerous to overwhelm these binding proteins and have a bunch of free vitamin D just floating around? How does this change how we should interpret a standard vitamin D lab test? Yeah, there's a difference not only in this kind of free bound idea, but also like inactive and active forms of the vitamins. So I mentioned, for example, 25-hydroxy vitamin D as a kind of prototypical, quote unquote, storage form that's not physiologically active. And our body has a lot of complex regulated ways by which it activates vitamin D to 125 or calcitriol. And so there are, in fact, situations in practice where I might put somebody on calcitriol straight up on that active form of vitamin D. And somebody who might listen to this, they might say, oh, why don't I just skip the, you know, over the counter stuff? I want to go straight to the active form. I want to get the real deal stuff. And it's like, yeah, that's an even faster route to getting toxic because our body is very good at deciding how much do I need to activate? How much do I need bound, free, et cetera, things like that. The reasons why I might use it is if somebody is physiologically unable to activate their vitamin D, like if they have, you know, a complete kidney failure in their dialysis patients and things like that. And so trying to override these homeostatic mechanisms is often a foolish endeavor. And so that's, you're just going to be in a situation where you're at higher risk of toxicity and unintended side effects if you try to override the system, especially in an unmonitored way. So that would be among many reasons why. And in this context, especially because of, as you alluded to, how long acting these things are. Anything that is very, very long acting, there are, you know, even greater concerns about potential toxicity. There are some medicines out there that we use just to deviate a little bit from the vitamin D topic, but medicines that have half-lives of a couple months. And so if somebody develops toxicity, for example, from a drug like amiodarone, like that's an antiarrhythmic drug that's used in cardiovascular medicine. I use it, you know, relatively often, but I'm also very, very aware that it's like, if I induce toxicity in this, it is going to take months for this to ends up getting out of this patient system. There are also, to shout out to one of my favorite podcasts, The Poison Lab in toxicology, there have been toxic exposures and poisonings that have happened with essentially derivatives of like rodent killer type things that are often based in coumarins, so like blood thinning type medicines. And so those are so long acting, lasting for months on end, that people are having to take like massive doses of vitamin K to out counteract it because they're at elevated bleeding risk for months on end. And at any given time, if they were, you know, unable to keep up with that, that they would essentially bleed out to death. There have been some outbreaks and poisonings reported. So long, those are a few examples of how very long acting things have unique risks that can be exceptionally challenging to manage. I've heard of and seen cases of severe vitamin D toxicity that, as we saw in this case, take months, drugs that I use that take months, and other poisonings that also take months and months and months to fully resolve. Yeah, this paper had mentioned that they hypothesize that when you saturate all of these vitamin D transport proteins, the binding proteins, that you can get some spillover of free vitamin D, and it does tend to be somewhat active. It's unbound, and it can enter these cells like unregulated. So like the taxis aren't dropping off the vitamin D appropriately. It's just kind of going places. And that potentially triggered this patient's case. It is a hypothesis. We don't know that exactly yet, but I found that interesting. To close this out, I think we should look at the updated clinical practice guidelines from the Endocrine Society, which marked a significant change in how many approach vitamin D. For many years, many in the fitness and medical communities have operated under the assumption that we should be testing everyone and aiming for a specific number for vitamin D levels, usually like 30 nanograms per milliliter. Now, these new guidelines move us away from that treat-to-target model and towards a more nuanced, evidence-based approach. So here's the breakdown of what is now recommended in these clinical practice guidelines. First, for children and adolescents age 1 to 18, they do recommend vitamin D supplementation, primarily to prevent rickets. There's some evidence. It also may lower the risk of respiratory tract infections in this population. For pregnant individuals, they also recommend supplementation. Potentially lowers the risk of preeclampsia, preterm birth, and neonatal mortality. Third, for adults with high-risk pre-diabetes or diabetes, the guidelines suggest supplementation in addition to lifestyle modification to reduce the progression of type 2 diabetes. In the trials reviewed, the average dose was around 3,500 international units per day. And then fourth, for adults age 75 and older, they also recommend supplementation of vitamin D just due to the potential mortality benefit identified in a number of meta-analyses. However, for the people that are listening to this podcast, most of them anyway, those between the ages of 19 and 74, they suggest against routine supplementation beyond the current dietary reference intakes, which are about 600 to 800 IUs per day. Perhaps the most significant change, and people may be surprised to know this, they recommend against routine vitamin D testing. They suggest against screening in the general population, including those with obesity or with the various complexions if they are otherwise healthy and do not have established medical indications like hypocalcemia or malabsorption diseases. Importantly, they no longer endorse a universal target of at least 30 nanograms per milliliter for sufficiency. They've acknowledged that the evidence does not support a single threshold for all people and all conditions and the costs and risks of widespread testing often outweigh the benefits in this population. So Austin, the Endocrine Society just flipped the script on this 30 nanograms per milliliter target. You know, why did the medical community move away from this target? Or are they moving away from this target? Because this is relatively new. I think this paper was published in 2024. And how would you talk to a patient who is worried because their lab result says 28? Yeah, this is a pretty murky area, I would say. I think that, you know, there's been a lot of views around how we set diagnostic cutoffs, how we set lab cutoffs. Are we setting something that correlates with overt deficiency versus what's enough for a large enough swath of the population's efficiency? There's a spectrum of kind of nutrient status. And then there's also the murkiness of like, how much is our blood vitamin D levels actually a marker of nutrient status? Because we've talked before about how they tend to correlate with general health in a lot of ways. As people get unhealthier in general, they tend to go down. And as health tends to improve, they tend to also improve for varying reasons, not just related to, for example, how much you get in your diet. There's obviously a lot of other factors that can impact vitamin D levels. There's been ideas, for example, that instead of treating to a particular target vitamin D level, that we should maybe treat to the level that leads to the most suppression of parathyroid hormone, that maybe that means that as parathyroid hormone goes up, maybe it's going up because you are relatively vitamin D deficient, leading to not enough calcium in your blood and PTH has to make up the difference. That's another hypothesis. And it's like, I would want to have some sort of prospective cohort or prospective evidence saying that, oh, if I treat people to maximally suppress their PTH, that some real outcome that a patient might care about is better. Maybe they have, you know, some better quality of life or longevity or lower osteoporosis, fracture risk, something like that to hang my hat on. Short of that, it's just biochemical evidence that it's like, that could make sense. Maybe, you know, and I don't feel super strongly in almost any direction here. Like if somebody wants to do that. OK, I just don't have a strong sense of confidence that they're going to benefit. But if again, if it's being monitored, then I don't have a great sense that it's going to be harmed. And so then it comes down to like, what are the costs and who's paying? And if they're like, I want to do this, I'm going to pay money. I'm going to monitor them. OK, like, you know, but but as far as generating guidelines for public health and saying we need insurers to pay for all of this. And it's like, no, we definitely need stronger evidence to say that this is going to be worth the time and the effort and the expense to do if we're going to have public payers or third party payers actually, you know, addressing this kind of thing. For somebody who gets their levels checked and it's like, as you said, 28, for example, and they're very concerned, I would elicit those concerns. Tell me what you're most worried about. Also be curious why it was checked in the first place. Was it one of those kind of what we call fishing expeditions of I was just curious. So I got it done to see. Or was there some clear, compelling clinical indication? And then the last part would be, do they have any other medical conditions like the ones where you mentioned where there's actually maybe evidence that they should be? For example, do they have multiple sclerosis? Yeah, that's a situation where no doubt I would actually have them supplementing because there's actually a little bit better evidence in the context of MS compared with many other conditions. If they said, I'm doing it because I just want to get that extra boost on my testosterone. It's like, well, we got some conversations to have and probably, you know, I bet you probably get better results from just like maybe sleeping an extra 30 minutes a night or something like that instead of doing something like this. So really, it's eliciting the person's concern, seeing if there are strong medical reasons to do it. And then if not, then kind of trying to work through and adjust those expectations as needed. Yep. Last part about the new guidelines is that when supplementation is indicated, the guidelines stronger prefer a daily lower dose administration over the intermittent high dose, like bolus therapy, like those taking 50,000 or even 100,000 I use once a week or once a month. So these high doses may actually increase the risk of complications in certain populations, whereas daily dosing tends to mimic the natural physiology more closely. So as we close this out, the case of the soldier we discussed today is a reminder of why these guidelines matter and why evidence matters. More isn't necessarily better. Now, for most people listening to this, those under the age of 75 probably don't need vitamin D supplement unless there's a specific reason for you to do so. Chasing a specific lab number does not tend to improve health outcomes just in and of itself. As always, it's nuanced. So if you have a specific medical condition like inflammatory bowel disease, if you've had your GI tract surgerized like metabolic bariatric surgery, yeah, these guidelines don't really apply to you. You should follow your doctor's recommendations. But for the average lifter, vitamin D supplementation is probably not going to turn you into an elite level power lifter or a pro bodybuilder. Austin, any final thoughts on the soldier with the leaky skeleton before we close the books on this case? No, that was a super interesting case. And I'm glad that we were able to get to a resolution and find a sufficient explanation for the whole thing. You mentioned that for lifters, the vitamin D is not super likely to be a total game changer for them. A slight interesting correlate to that, I guess, is not in the strength training barbell-based population, but rather in the endurance and definitely in the ultra-endurance world. Those folks are at risk for a variety of reasons of what are called like bone stress injuries and things like that, especially as we've talked about before in the context of inadequate calorie intake and low energy availability, especially when people get very thin. And that's actually a situation where I have advised some folks to take some vitamin D. There is some evidence that it can lower the risk of bone stress injuries and things like that coming up in that population. I know that that's a tiny sliver, if any, of our regular listening audience, but that's another situation where it would actually be more reasonable to supplement, definitely under monitored situations like you're getting the levels checked over time because that's a common issue in that population. Yeah. Yeah. And that's usually for people with a relatively high volume of training, not like three hours a week of conditioning. That does not count as high volume. Agreed. All right. So that's it for this medical mystery episode of the Barbell Medicine Podcast. If you enjoyed this format, let us know in the comments or on the forum. We've got a lot of new stuff coming your way this year. If you want to support what we do, head to barbellmedicine.com. Check out our stuff. Before you go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. For everyone at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. We'll see you on the next episode.

=== FILE: Episode #383： Scientific Populism vs. Consensus - The 2026 Food Pyramid [oEF0430I3fA].txt ===

 Weight Watchers now offers access to affordable GLP-1s. It works for members like... I'm Hailey, and I've lost 100 pounds. Weight Watchers has everything I need, from weight loss medications to nutrition support, and help with my side effects, it's all in one place. Weight Watchers handles the insurance for you, and offers affordable cash pay options. With our program, our members are losing more weight, with expert nutrition and side effects support. I'm Mike, and I've lost 135 pounds. Weight Watchers prescribing GLP-1 medications, it's been life changing. I'm Sharia, and I lost 80 pounds on Weight Watchers. I realized that it would take more than a prescription to lose weight and feel good on a GLP-1. Better results, expert support, lose more weight, make it last. I can't imagine doing a GLP-1 without Weight Watchers. Get started for as low as $25 at WeightWatchers.com slash GLP-1. For over 60 years, we've helped millions of members find what works for them. Now it's your turn. Weight Watchers, watch it work. If you're a podcast host, listen up this one's for you. My name is Allie Jackson. I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle, and I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform. With Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in ad sales. It's not just typical ad sales either. It's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple. You just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You can vet every opportunity, and their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast on social media. To really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle, I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to RedCircle.com to get your free trial. That's RedCircle.com for a free trial. The 1992 food pyramid is probably the most recognizable image in the history of public health in America. It's the poster we all remember from our elementary school cafeterias, and it continues to define how we talk about nutrition today. Interestingly, many people treat the pyramid as the current standard, even though it was actually replaced by my plate back in 2011. While my plate tried to simplify things, the original pyramid remains the shorthand for where we believe our metabolic health went off the rails. The standard story is that the pyramid's low-fat advice is what made the country sick, but the data shows a much more complicated reality. The low-fat marketing of the 90s essentially gave the food industry a green light to flood our environment with hyper-palatable, ultra-processed calories. Since 1977, the average American didn't just change the type of fuel they were using, they added nearly 500 calories to their daily total. We ended up in a health crisis because we followed an engineered environment to a massive calorie surplus. Now, in January, 2026, the map has officially been redrawn again. The federal government's 2026 food pyramid, or reset, is a radical departure from everything that came before it. For the first time, we're seeing a protein floor, specifically aimed at increasing dietary protein, and there's an explicit war on ultra-processed foods. At the same time, we're witnessing a populist rebellion that has effectively flipped the pyramid upside down, crowning red meat and butter as health foods, while dismissing decades of cardiovascular research. Depending on who you follow, this reset may be predictable out, may be predictable out, cardiovascular ticking time bomb. Now, at Barbo Medicine, we're not interested in the political theater of the reset, we just care about the biology of the people who are gonna follow it. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're going behind the curtain of the 2026 guidelines. We're tracking the lobbyist influence, we're dissecting the actual evidence behind these new recommendations, and we're asking if this shift represents a return to real food or a high-stakes gamble on American health. And to help me unpack all of this, we have the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now, Austin, when you look at this new inverted pyramid with steak at the top and bread at the point, what is the first thing that comes to mind? Does something different stand out, or does it just take you back to that poster we all had on our elementary school cafeteria walls in the 90s? Yeah, a few things. I mean, I remember growing up, seeing that image on the side of whether cereal boxes or milk cartons or things like that. More recently, I believe it was about maybe two years ago or so, there was a South Park episode that actually featured the lab hot take of like, let's take the pyramid and flip it upside down. So this has been foretold as they tend to be quite visionary on that show. Looking at this graphic, I'm honestly not terribly excited about it. I think that much like prior guidelines that people didn't do a great job of following, I'm not sure that they're much more likely to follow these. There's certainly been a lot of hot takes in this course around these new guidelines at the moment that I know we're gonna be getting into today, but those are just some of my initial takes. I don't think it's very likely to have dramatic impacts on people's behavior, which is the main thing that we care about, of course. Yeah, yeah. So I think to understand like how we got here and like its subsequent effects on dietary behaviors and practices, we need to go back. We can't understand why this 2026 reset is happening, unless we understand why the 1992 food pyramid, its original inception was doomed from the very first draft. And so we gotta go back to 1980, which is when we published our first dietary guidelines and the room where it happened. Now, to set the stage here, Senator George McGowan, he had this committee on nutrition and human needs. It was originally formed to end hunger in America, but that committee pivoted towards the rising epidemic of heart disease. Now, to understand why that happened, Eisenhower had a heart attack in office in 1955, Ansel Keys researcher just released his seven countries study that connected saturated fat intake to heart disease in the 1970s. And so all of this is leading to some pressure about, oh my gosh, we got this epidemic of heart disease, we gotta do something about it. And so that committee released a set of dietary goals for the United States in 1977. So predating the first dietary guidelines that were ever widely published. And in those dietary goals, they say to reduce processed sugars by half, so about 10% of the dietary intake, reduced fat intake to 30% from its current state at 40%, particularly animal fat, reduce that, reduce saturated fat to less than 10% of daily calories, increase polyunsaturated and monoinsaturated fats, reduce dietary cholesterol intake, reduce sodium intake and increase fruits and vegetables. That's 1977. Yeah, and that's, at a time when, if you graph out the incidents of cardiovascular disease, and in particular cardiovascular disease death, rates were extremely high in the middle of the, kind of from 1900 to the year 2000, like in the early to mid part of that century, the like per capita risk of cardiovascular mortality was extremely high. And so now, even though you still hear us say things like cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the US, leading cause of death worldwide, the overall number of events is still quite high. That is mostly at this point driven by the fact that the population is so much higher. But if you correct that per capita, like by divide, adjust for the growth of the population, we have made huge progress on the risk of cardiovascular death, like the sudden death from a heart attack is far less common now compared to where it was, say in like 1960s. Now people are living with more chronic cardiovascular conditions, things like heart failure and things like that. It's interesting to see these dietary suggestions. I mean, I think you could quibble about some of them, but overall it's like, yeah, this would be a net improvement on what it sounds like the diet was before that, even going back to the 70s. Yeah, yeah, so that's 1977. And ultimately that led to the development of the 1980 guidelines. Now this was a pamphlet. It was no food pyramid at this time. It wasn't like a 400 plus page scientific consensus on nutrition that we currently get with each iteration of the current guidelines, which is the little pamphlet. Although you wanna look at it, I've linked it in the show notes. It looks pretty good, very vintage. Now the 1977 sort of guidelines that led to the 1980 pamphlet that was released had been watered down. So effectively the committee said, decrease the consumption of meat, but the cattle industry was pretty chuffed about that. And so the final wording in the 1980 guidelines said, choose meats, poultry and fish, which will reduce saturated fat intake. So it moved from eat less meat to eat lean meat. The original goal of the 1977 dietary goals was to reduce sugar consumption by 40%. But after heavy lobbying from the sugar industry, the 1980 guidelines were softened to the vague, avoid too much sugar. So there are two recurring themes here we're gonna see throughout the different iterations of the dietary guidelines, including the current ones. Number one is industry influence. That's problem number one. And two, vagueness leading to unintended consequences. So we fast forward to 1992, the food pyramid is born. This is the first time that graphic appeared in public. And the reason why they pivoted to this graphic is because, again, we had previously had a pamphlet, nobody understood them. And so the thought was, well, if we just have a graphic, people will understand that and by and large eat that way. So the USDA hired a nutrition expert named Louise Light to lead the team to develop this graphic. Now the original food guide and subsequent pyramid looked very different. Light's recommendation was to make the base of the pyramid vegetables and fruits. And grains were a small sliver, like two to four servings. And they also had to be whole grains. Now when the draft went up the chain, the grain lobby represented by the big cereal and flower companies went to work. They argued that if people only ate two servings of grains, the agricultural economy would collapse. And so the USDA overrode the scientists. They flipped the pyramid, put grains at the bottom and increased the recommendation to a staggering six to 11 servings a day. Oh, and by the way, they didn't differentiate between whole grains and refined grains. It was just whatever type of grain, six to 11 servings of them per day. Yeah, I mean, I think that it's some interesting backstory of what may have happened behind the scenes there. Although, there is some probable distinction between the image and what it conveyed and to the extent that somebody even used that to kind of inspire their dietary habits or choices, which again, as we'll make the case, most people don't really gravitate towards the use of those tools when making these decisions. If somebody's habitual diet contained, say six servings of whole grains a day as proper defined by a serving, that is most likely to be completely fine for a large fraction of the population and may even be health promoting or beneficial. But if it is kind of mixed in with or not clearly delineated between refined grains, which to be clear, even those guidelines were not recommending like, hey, you should consume up to 11 servings per day, including of refined grains, things like that. Then I think you'd certainly run into more problems, but that's also not what they were explicitly advising. And so you do hear some more of the kind of conspiratorial minded, which understanding that there is some undercurrent here of like nefarious influence and things like that here and there. But the idea that as a result, the government put forth this clear message of everyone ought to be consuming tons of grains irrespective of whole grain versus not, is not exactly what those things held even at the time. Yeah, that certainly wasn't the advice. Although, yeah, you could make an argument, although I don't know the strong one, that people, if they just looked at the graphic, maybe that's what they took away. Or if they just heard, eat six to 11 servings of grains a day without the complex caveat, perhaps that might have led to this dietary pattern. But to me, the real like nefarious undercurrent here is what these guidelines, these 1992 food pyramid and subsequent dietary guidelines sort of incentivized. So while the USDA was telling us what to buy, two other giants were figuring out how to make it so we could never stop eating. Now in one of our previous podcasts on big food, the American Pantry was bought by Big Tobacco in the 1980s and they didn't just bring money, they brought the same scientists who spent decades optimizing nicotine delivery and rate of absorption. They applied that to our food supply. Now we've evolved as a species to seek calories in order to survive, but these companies turned that survival instinct into profit margins and expanding waste lines for us. So over the last 50 or so years, we didn't get hungrier or subsequently lose willpower as a species, but we did start eating about 500 more calories on average. And this is like a passive over consumption. Because of these engineered foods, they don't give us the same stop signals as less processed options. And so the thought here is that these ultra-processed foods came into prominence due to market pressures. The food pyramid had this base of grains and to keep them shelf stable and cost efficient, industry leaned into refined flowers and starches and away from whole grains. And also we had this advice to reduce fat, that was everywhere. So the food industry capitalized and made more of their foods low fat or fat free to get the healthy label and the fat free or low fat label, but to maintain taste and texture, mouth feel, et cetera, they added sugar, sodium and other additives, which ultimately reduced satiety or feeling a fullness and added some calories. Now ultra-processed foods make up about 70% of the US food supply. And yeah, between 1977 and the early 2000s, the average American didn't just get hungrier, we got hacked, we're eating way more calories. So to me, it's easy to look back at 1992 in the food pyramid and blame the lobbyists, but the scientific community wasn't silent at the time. When the USDA was printing millions of these posters, researchers at Harvard led by Walter Willett, he's the same guy who came up with the Eat Lancet diet, which is pretty good, sounding the alarm. They pointed out that there was a fundamental flaw in the pyramid's design. The pyramid created all carbohydrates as equal and biologically speaking, it didn't distinguish between a Cheerio and a steel cut oat. Now if you read the fine print, if you read the scientific consensus, it says, oh no, no, we want complex carbohydrates, but that's not what the graphic really showed. So Austin, as we look at this new food pyramid called the 2026 Reset with its protein floors and the inversion of the old food pyramid, I'm starting to hear some very similar sounding alarms from the scientific community. Do you think we're finally getting it right or are we watching history repeat itself once again by failing to heed the warnings of experts? Yeah, that's an interesting question. I don't think that we are with this revision getting closer to truth. I think it is a spectacle. In particular, if you look at the fact that these heavily criticized 1992 food pyramid is now getting inverted. There's like something intrinsically symbolic and provocative about that, right? It's about the spectacle and kind of the show of, you've been lied to and we're flipping everything on its head and things like that. Of course, as we and others have pointed out many times, the food pyramid hasn't been used for well over a decade, actually quite a bit longer. There was this intermediate evolution that happened, the my plate system that did not actually rely on the food pyramid, nor did it continue to reflect that like broad base of indiscriminate grain, maybe implications graphically, even though again, the text did not advise people consume that much of like processed or non-complex carbohydrate sources and things like that. So I do think that there's almost more of an emphasis on like in making this a spectacle and it's almost performative in a sense without being a thing that is likely to either radically, you know, transform behavior or be much more accurate than existing guidelines that we've had. If anything, I've seen a fair amount of criticism that these actually make certain things more ambiguous, more nebulous, more controversial, especially from the scientific perspective, but at the same time, that's not too surprising once you get a sense of like how these guidelines actually get drafted, there is the scientific committee of experts and who are extremely familiar with the literature and they put an enormous amount of time and effort into formulating their scientific consensus, but from there for that consensus to get translated into the actual guidelines and then subsequently into policy, there's an additional layer of filtering that happens and that happens through HHS as well as the USDA. And that's what's kind of tricky here is when you think about the USDA Department of Agriculture, it's like, well, are they charged fundamentally with a primary interest in promoting the health of Americans or are they charged with a mandate relating to agriculture in the United States? And so there's almost like an intrinsic conflict of interest there that makes things complicated and a little bit problematic that they are significantly involved in this process at all. It's not to say that just the scientists would do a phenomenal job of being able to formulate guidelines because even though scientists are great at science-ing and it coming up with committee statements, they are not great oftentimes at public communication. And so I shudder to think about what the product might look like if it was just left up to, you know, the scientists to come up with a very compelling kind of public message on this. I think you do need some level of additional, you know, skill, filter, interpretation there, but the actual process that this goes through, that's why you see, for example, some of that softening of language that you described where the scientific committee in consensus might explicitly advise certain things, for example, say to, you know, reducing red meat intake or something like that. Whereas after it goes through that USDA filter and things like that, you might end up with that softening of language or making things a little bit more vague, a little bit more permissive, and then it leads to less clear, less concrete guidelines in the end that are often less compatible with the current scientific consensus as established by the original committee. So that's kind of what I see this evolution as. It's almost more performative and for show than it is something that is like more closely approximating truth that is likely to materially advance the health of our population. Yeah, it does kind of seem like the USDA is in a conflicted spot to say the least. It's kind of like the same company that's charged with reducing lung cancer rates in America is also selling you cigarettes and you're like, I don't understand what your primary interest is, what's your major incentive. So yeah, some maybe predictable outcomes in a way as far as like softening language, in addition to just science communicators getting ahold of this insane. Look, we can't talk about the polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratio in technical terms, but maybe we could just say reduced saturated fat, for example, that previously was in the guidelines. But the way I wanna come at the 2026 food pyramid that the updated guidelines is through this cinematic reference, the Clint Eastwood at the helm. We're gonna talk about the good, the bad and the ugly. And we're gonna start off with the good. And for me, there are two major victories, increased protein and the acknowledgement that ultra processed foods are a problem. So let's start out with protein. For years, the RDA for protein was set at 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. This is a number designed simply to prevent nitrogen deficiency in a otherwise inactive person. So this 2026 reset, the new food pyramid finally established what they're calling a protein floor of 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day for adults. Don Layman, Dr. Layman was one of the advisors there. And he's one of the best there is in this space. So it seems like they're keeping up with the evidence. So on paper, yeah, raising the protein recommendation to 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day seems like a massive victory for supporting muscular health, particularly in adults who are lifting weights or exercising and older adults who are at risk of sarcopenia. So you can think about like protein as a building block. If you're building a skyscraper that is constantly under renovation, the old guidelines were like sending a brick, one truck of bricks per week. Just enough to keep the building from being condemned and falling down. But if you're actually living in that building or trying to renovate it through resistance training, you're gonna need more bricks. You're gonna need a constant convoy of delivery trucks to keep up with the pace of construction. So the new guidelines could theoretically increase the supply of bricks or building blocks, making the renovation process easier and more successful. However, there's a catch here. The recommendation as it sits, probably doesn't make that much of a difference, not just because people don't read the guidelines or follow them, which we'll get to, but because it's not that much different than the current protein intake amongst most adults in the United States. Most adults eat way more protein than the RDA. In the US, the typical adult consumes about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now obviously there is a variation there. Some people eat way less, some people eat way more. So between you and I, we're probably bringing up the average and other people are bringing down the average. So to me, it's kind of like a paper recommendation. It's like, well, look, it is higher, but I don't know how much it would actually change if people were just meeting the numbers. Perhaps the good that comes out of this is with this emphasis on eating more protein, potentially that extra protein could displace other foods that were ultra-processed foods or otherwise high calories that drove that 500 calorie surplus that we've talked about in the last episode and now this episode. That's all theoretical, but I guess we could count this as a win. What do you think about the new protein recommendations? Specifically with respect to like health outcomes, such as sarcopenia, frailty and so on. Is this a good move or not? Yeah, I would push back a little bit on the idea, on narrowing the scope to sarcopenia and frailty because that's not what these guidelines are for, right? These guidelines are general dietary guidelines for Americans and probably one area in my own thinking as far as nutritional guidelines has gone over the years is softening definitely what I would consider in terms of protein recommendations for the general public. I think that if a lot of people are hanging around 1.2, that's already probably more than enough for most folks. We know or we at least feel relatively confident that higher levels than that among training populations or those who are very anabolically resistant may confer some additional benefit. I think as with most things, there tends to be pretty significantly diminishing returns to that. And so pushing the whole population to try to hit 1.6 when we think that there are pretty substantially diminishing returns as you approach that level. And certainly if you exceed it, I don't know that that's gonna be making a huge difference in population health. Even when it comes to people with sarcopenia, their fundamental issue way more often tends to be some combination of disuse atrophy. In other words, insufficient physical activity. They're not training. And maybe they have advanced medical conditions that are also contributing to it that could maybe be better managed, but maybe not, right? It's really hard to get big and strong and jacked when you have advanced Parkinson's disease or heart failure, COPD, cirrhosis, cancer, things like that. When it comes to management of sarcopenia and frailty, I am much, much, much more strongly in favor of getting people active in training. Compared with jacking up their protein intake, I think is much less likely to have a big, big impact on their health outcomes. So ultimately I'm kind of a shrug in this. It's like in years past, my very barbell training oriented self would have been strongly in favor, but that's also limited to that context of somebody who wants to get the biggest outcomes out of their training. Yeah, you can probably benefit by pushing it up to that, say 1.6 in certain situations even higher. But when I'm saying, oh, this is for the entire country, whether you're training, not training, young, old, sarcopenia, not, I'd be fine with just like calling it 1.2 and saying most of the population on average is about there. And if somebody is clearly eating a nutritionally depleted diet or a nutrient deficient diet, then yeah, we want to get them up to that level. But calling 1.6 a floor for the population, I would actually not be in favor of that, I think. Yeah, yeah, I agree. All right, let me pose a would you rather to you. All right, so let's just say by sheer publicity and fanfare around the new inverted food pyramid, there's a 10% section of the population that now has increased their dietary protein intake, right? So that's scenario one. 10% of the population jacks up their protein to 1.6. Now to be clear, neither of us are saying like, look, if you go above that much or at that level and you don't lift like bad things are gonna happen to you, it's just like, eh, you're probably not seeing benefits. All right, so that's scenario one. Or you take the same portion of the population, 10%, it's currently not exercising. And instead they start meeting the physical activity guidelines to include conditioning and lifting weights. Which do you predict would have a greater impact on health outcomes? Absolutely no question, the latter. Getting that portion of the population more active is gonna have a way bigger impact than bumping up their protein intake. Yeah, yeah, so I'm trying to be charitable to these guidelines, but I don't wanna be like, well, they're all bad because it's not necessarily the case. In fact, they're not really that changed comparatively to some weird kind of nuances they decided to pick that are seemingly at odds with the current scientific consensus. But look, if increasing protein or the advertisement that that's in the guidelines convinces somebody to read the guidelines, great. What I think they missed an opportunity to do is say, and by the way, this would be maximally leveraged if you lifted some weights and you should do that. Sure. Okay, so if we're calling that a win, which sure, if people chose to increase their protein intake and that led to increase exercise or displacement of other foods that are higher calorie, that's probably a win, but for most folks, maybe shoulder shrug emoji. The second win here, which I actually think is maybe a bigger win, is we've announced an official war on ultra-process foods. So like for the first time seemingly, a federal document explicitly identifies highly processed foods as a primary driver of chronic disease right alongside physical inactivity. That's right in the opening page of this. And they're not just blaming sugar, they're looking at the food matrix. They recommend avoiding ultra-process foods. They also give a little decoder ring type thing. They're like, look, avoid foods if they've got some syrup in there or it ends with OSE, like Oast, like it's a glucose or something like that, for added sugars. And to their credit, they don't mention nolva a single time in these guidelines. That's just this classification of food processing. Now, this is also in the scientific consensus. If you read that, it's a 400-something page document. They talk about how ultra-process foods may lead to poor health through food matrix disruption. One of these things is like bioavailability. So industrial processing breaks down the physical structure of food, that's the matrix, which can make nutrients like starch and sugar absorbed much faster by the body, potentially leading to not only higher glycemic responses, but also over consumption. Basically cutting the break lines. There's no stop signal here, over consumption and higher calorie intake. We talked about that on the last podcast. So gotta give it some credit here. They also don't condemn functionally processed foods. So things like Greek yogurt, for example, or frozen fruits or vegetables, which are technically processed, but yeah, they don't call those out, which is nice. So I don't know, I view that as sort of a win as far as implementation. I have my skepticism there, but yeah, what do you think about that? Cause it's the first time I've seen that in dietary guidelines, other than to say, like, you know, avoid refined carbohydrates, but that's usually packed in the consensus and not like the actual document that people might read. Added sugars have been, has been a well, you know, appropriately demonized thing, I think for a fair amount of time. The problem with the processing conversation, as you've alluded to here, and we've talked about before, is just one of definitions. And certainly if it's gonna come to policy, because policy requires definitions. And their to date remains a lack of a clear consensus definition on what is a processed or an ultra processed food that is neat and tidy and does not have some combination of both false positives and false negatives. In terms of, you know, foods that we would all recognize as not being ideal for health that fail to meet certain criteria and others that clearly, as you mentioned, like Greek yogurt, for example, that are maybe technically processed in some ways that, you know, might otherwise meet certain criteria even though it shouldn't be. So it's problematic. And I think that having clear definitions on this is gonna be needed for anyone to be able to actually implement policy, especially knowing that, or feeling confident that, hey, if this pisses off the wrong person, there's gonna be legal challenges. And then you're just within a whole mess at that point. Yeah, yeah, I was trying to predict like, what if any sort of industry influence that this document and, you know, would maybe have, right? Kinda similar to what happened in the 90s when the food pyramid came out. And, you know, they were like, look, we gotta be low fat and the base of the pyramid is grains. And so we need to make these affordable. So, you know, some unintended consequences there. What are the unintended consequences here? Can't think of anything that comes from these, maybe the good side of the guidelines. So now it's time to get into the bad. There are some things in here that have a lot of scientists and clinicians, including us deeply concerned. And so, you know, we spent the last 20-something minutes talking about, you know, how these guidelines respect the biology of the gut and the muscle, but while fixing the...  metabolic engine, the guidelines might have decided to ignore the plumbing. The guidelines still recommend keeping saturated fats under 10% of total calories. It's actually in the little pamphlet. It's also in the scientific consensus. They acknowledge that 82% of Americans already exceed this and that there are no biological requirements for saturated fat intake. Yet, the messaging here is complicated because they're saying, oh yeah, you can use things like butter and beef tallow and eat more red meat. To me, that is crazy. Austin, when you saw that the guidelines recommended butter and beef tallow as well as leaning into animal-based proteins, what was your immediate reaction? Are we finally freeing the public from the failed lipid heart hypothesis or are we watching like a populist rebellion walk us right into the cardiovascular dead end? I think that this is going to be an area where some people inevitably are going to just have strong opinions and disagree. I just fundamentally don't think that we have been dealing with a failed hypothesis of heart disease. Again, if you look at the actual statistics on risk of cardiovascular death, it has been steadily dropping. It's actually plateaued in the last few years, but over the course of the last 70 years, we have managed to put a huge dent into the risk of cardiovascular death through combinations of things. I will recognize combinations of less smoking, better blood pressure control, lipid lowering, therapies, better treatments of acute heart attacks so they're less likely to kill people immediately and things like that. But when we survey the entire body of evidence on nutritional interventions, including highly, tightly controlled metabolic ward studies and things like that, there is overall a relatively consistent directionality to it. We have not been just steadily marching in the opposite direction up until this point where they've inverted things and set the course more correct. Part of my problem with this is that it's just incoherent in the sense that if you're advising people to crank up the butter and beef tallow yet also to keep their saturated fat intake less than 10% of calories, that's quite challenging. Getting that guideline is going to necessarily require you to opt for generally quite lean sources of protein if you're going to be relying on animal-derived sources. If you end up going with fish or other things, then that's great and that's arguably even better in a lot of ways. But it's just if you think that guidelines drive behavior, right? And so that's one of my challenges to folks in this space is you claimed that the old guidelines caused the obesity epidemic. Now we have these new guidelines that you are a big fan of and I should expect will fix the obesity epidemic. Please set some explicit outcomes that you will be looking for. What will you be measuring? What time point do you expect this to happen by? And then we will assess at that time point. The caveat will be we need to make sure that the outcomes that we observe are not better explained by the use of GLP-1 agonies. Right? That's been my hot take to this point is if you think this is going to radically improve outcomes, for example, when it relates to heart disease risk, show me your predicted outcome and what you're looking for. Basically pre-register your hypothesis. That's like a fundamentally scientific principle, right? That's how a lot of studies when they get pre-registered, it says here's our hypothesis, here's what we think is going to happen. And you say in advance, if this happens, our hypothesis will be supported. If this happens, well, I'll have to reject my hypothesis. The problem is that people don't operate this way. People who are fans of beef tallow are going to be fans of beef tallow no matter what happens over the long term, no matter what I say, no matter what you say. That's just the tough thing here. But my issue again is just the incoherence of it and the fact that I don't think that most people are going to be able to, even if they wanted to use these guidelines, design a coherent diet that leans into butter, beef tallow, and high-end takes a red meat while also meeting the 10% saturated fat guideline. One of those things is going to fail. Yeah, yeah, I agree. And it is interesting, this is like the start of the disconnect between the scientific consensus, again, this 400-page review of the current evidence to date by a panel of experts, right? Many experts and millions of dollars spent to do that. They acknowledge that, look, the primary contributors of saturated fat in their current American diet are burgers and sandwiches, desserts and sweet snacks, you know, and other mixed dishes. And they also acknowledge that reducing butter, red meat, whether it's processed or unprocessed, and replacing them with plant-based sources, lowers cardiovascular disease risk, you should encourage beans, peas, lentils, et cetera, and mono-unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. They go through all this evidence, right? So they're saying on one hand, like, we should probably reduce beef tallow, butter intake, and red meat intake, just generally speaking and shifting towards this other type of dietary pattern. The pyramid is like, nah, dog, I got this, watch. Instead of like making a case for why using beef tallow and butter would be health-provoting, it seems like an add-on. Like the rest of that whole section reads very similar to the consensus, which is like, yeah, we should probably avoid this stuff, limit saturated fat, choose these other options. And instead of like, no, no, no, but you can also have beef tallow and butter, it's like, to your point, incoherent, because like, how do you square that, you know? Yeah, I think that this is the result of what we'll call post-processing. After emerging from the scientific committee, the post-processing of this by the subsequent actors in this space who have, you know, certain biases and preferences and motivated reasoning and they like, you know, beef and steak and, you know, aggression and manliness and things like that, all these kind of ideas that they want to make into their guidelines as part of this whole kind of performative, you know, thing, for spectacle. That's my perspective on it. Yeah, yeah, there's another interesting kind of wrinkle here. It's like this dairy hall pass. The committee found some moderate evidence that substituting red meat for dairy reduces heart disease risk, but it seemingly made its way to the food, new food pyramid in a very interesting way by pushing full fat dairy, specifically whole milk and cheese. I got a big concern that this may increase calorie density unnecessarily without significantly improving satiety markers, so just how full people get, like people just going to eat way more calories and also full fat dairy can be more rewarding than lower fat options. So we both know that the literature on full fat dairy is pretty messy. There's just a ton of confounding variables. So like socioeconomic status, who buys low fat or fat free dairy, who consumes whole fat dairy and more. Still, though, when the food pyramid tells people to go full fat for dairy, are they ignoring the fact that whole milk essentially provides a high reward potential calorie bomb that might exacerbate the 500 calorie surplus that we're trying to fix? I think it's a maybe. This is something that's like I'm open to seeing kind of what happens. Again, I don't think people are going to use these guidelines for their behaviors. They're going to pick what they pick, regardless of what these things advise. But there may be some sort of cultural shift. I fully recognize like when we were growing up that things were definitely leaning towards the skim milk direction were heavily. And so if there's a broader shift in the public conception, then yeah, that might impact behavior. You're right that there's going to be an energy overall calorie impact on that. The dairy's whole topic is pretty interesting. We've talked before about how most forms of dairy, including full fat forms with the exception of butter, don't actually tend to be especially harmful in the context of, say, blood lipids and cardiovascular disease and things like that. Whereas the churning process that turns it into butter has some impact on the chemical composition and then that has some downstream impacts that are kind of net harmful on blood lipids and cardiovascular risk. So we'll have to see what happens on that front. But I agree. There's a non significant difference in calorie density, which seems to be a pretty major problem that we're trying to deal with. The reward aspect, I mean, no doubt that drinking a glass of whole milk is pretty thick and rich and heavy and tasty when it goes into a milkshake, much more so than skim. You also wonder to the extent that a person is sensitive to satiety signals, is there some kind of compensatory effect? We know that doesn't tend to happen with other forms of liquid calories. Does it happen a bit more with milk? Maybe. I have less strong opinions about this in general compared with some of the other areas of the guidelines though. What do you think? Yeah, I think if they said, look, dairy's generally good. I'd be like, yeah, I agree. But the idea of pushing the full fat variety in particular, yeah, I'm just like, why? Like, yeah, my prediction is that you would either have a neutral effect on body weight management or a negative one, not likely a positive. That seems highly improbable to me. I think also, you know, recognizing that it seemingly dairy sans butter seems to be pretty neutral or perhaps even beneficial on blood lipids. Yeah, I'm all for dairy. Let's do it. But I just think explicitly trying to recommend full fat versions. It just doesn't really make sense to me. I think it's almost like the pendulum swung too far the other way. It's like, look, we've been doing low fat, fat free, and a majority of the low fat, fat free products that were, you know, designed in the nineties ended up having added sugars and stuff like that. I think most people who are in this space would say, yeah, that's, that was bad. Generally not good. People overeat those things. But I don't think we have to apply that specifically to dairy. And, you know, we have hopefully functioning synapses and can like discern between two different cases and you would have hoped for better considering how many people are, you know, taking in this information. But it's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. If you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep or cook, factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dietitians and crafted by chefs that you could eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet, or even a plant based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, factor has you covered. And when I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen and factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen. And a meal's ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home cooked meal without the stress. If your schedule is busy like mine, I think factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash bbm 50 off and use code bbm 50 off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with the code and qualifying auto renewing subscription purchases. Make healthier eating easy with factor. That's factormeals.com slash bbm 50 off. New year, colder days. This is the moment where your winter wardrobe actually has to deliver some measurable results. Quinn springs together premium materials and enduring quality so that you stay warm and you look sharp all season long. I look at clothing like a training program. I want high utility and zero waste. Usually luxury gear has a massive markup that doesn't actually correlate to quality, at least not all of the time, but quints cuts out the middleman to deliver luxury materials like cashmere, wool and Italian leather. All at a fraction of the price. Now their outerwear is particularly impressive from down jackets to wool coats. Everything is made by trusted factories with rigorous ethical standards. I've been wearing some of their cashmere sweaters lately because the holiday party round, you know, now they're soft, they're durable, and they're holding up better than brands that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresher winter wardrobe at quints.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365 day returns. They're now in Canada too. That's Q U I N C E dot com slash bbm free shipping and 365 day returns. Quints.com slash bbm. The new week OV pill is now available through Weight Watchers. Powerful GLP one results in a simple pill at the lowest price available. And with Weight Watchers, you can get doctor support and personalized nutrition programs. See if you qualify at Weight Watchers.com. Add not reviewed or approved by Novo Nordisk. And again, nothing surprises me anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and finally, I suspect you won't care about this, but we're going to see. Once again, the guidelines do not mention anything about dietary cholesterol. Now, I didn't expect them to mention the P to S ratio. That's just a ratio of polyunsaturated fat intake to saturated fat intake, but dietary cholesterol is still like a hot button. You know, people, uh, again, the, if we're talking about a dietary pendulum before it was like minimize dietary cholesterol intake. And then it was like, nah, it doesn't matter. Cholesterol is more complicated, which is true, but like there's, there's some nuance there. So we've covered this before, uh, believe a podcast episode called five nutrition controversies. Science tells us that the impact of saturated fat intake and dietary cholesterol will doesn't happen in a vacuum. If your ratio is high, meaning that you're taking in a lot of polyunsaturated fatty acids and dietary fiber, your body tends to handle the dietary cholesterol pretty well. Uh, blood lipoproteins like LDL don't seem to change much in response, but the typical Western diet or standard American diet, which to be clear is different than the guidelines. When people say the standard American diet, they're not referring to guidelines, uh, uh, type, type dietary patterns. It's just what people normally eat. Well, that P to S ratio is really low, mainly because we consume a lot of saturated fat relative to polyunsaturated fat. The current ratio is about 0.5 and we're really aiming for one or even two, but when that ratio is low, dietary cholesterol can increase blood lipids quite a bit. And now with the recommendation that beef, tallow and butter are fine. This could be an even bigger problem without any comment on dietary cholesterol. Austin, what do you think is the, you know, no mentioning of dietary cholesterol, a big issue, or are you just like, well, no one reads the guidelines anyway, and no one would care. So it's fine. I do feel like I keep coming back to saying, nobody's been reading. These are acting upon them. And I do continue to stand by that. My issue with, you know, the idea that maybe we should have mentioned something like that is also a broader concern about how guidelines should be communicated to the public. Should it be on one hand in terms of foods or should it on the other hand be in terms of nutrients? So when you tell a person or the general population who you should assume are not highly educated in this space, that you should consume less saturated fat. That is completely meaningless to people out there, right? So that is a nutrient based, you know, dietary recommendation that, you know, nerds, body, bodybuilding bros, scientists, we understand. But the general population does not operate on a kind of nutrient based model of diet of nutrition. That is not where their understanding comes from. And so I don't think that public health dietary guidelines should be rooted in, you know, nutrient based communication to say things like sodium or saturated fat or cholesterol or P to S ratios or things like that. But rather it should be fundamentally, I think, food based. So eat more of these foods, eat less of these foods, ideally eliminate these foods. Part of the problem though is even if the scientific committee were to establish statements like that in their, you know, statement to say that these foods should be prioritized, these should be reduced, these should be eliminated. There's still, again, that subsequent layer of filtering that these go through before they are communicated to the public where various actors and industry influence and USDA and things like that have an opportunity to either soften some of that language or shift it actually to some of this nutrient based labeling or kind of recommendations that kind of give them more space to operate here. So it makes it so that, for example, food industry might then be able to reformulate their food product to meet something that is more nutrient based while still being a food that probably shouldn't be eating, right? Or they might give them kind of a little bit longer leash to operate in that space compared with if it was just like, Hey, probably shouldn't eat this food. Yeah, that might have a more dramatic impact on their bottom line. Yeah. Yeah. I think if I had to buy my druthers, the phrase that you love that I say, you know, they're like various pages in this food pyramid, and it'll start out with like energy and then it goes to protein and then it goes to fruits and vegetables. And so to your point, I agree. The majority of what's on that page should be eat more of this, eat less of that. And then it should ideally be accessible for most people, whether high income, low income and everything in between. I would prefer that at the top of that page or the very first bullet point to have some sort of like, maybe not science sounding, but like just discrete statement. So for example, in the fat section, we should limit saturated fatty acid intake. Eat more of these foods, eat less of these foods. And here are some like fringe cases, mainly to like make it clear. And ultimately you're trying to increase the skill set of the people who are consuming this information of navigating a label in our current environment, or at least just having some fund of knowledge stuff. So where they could like assess something that's not immediately clear to them. Like, well, just has a high amount of saturated fat. The food guidelines didn't say anything about saturated fat. So I'm kind of like up a creek. I mean, obviously that's a relatively rare case. The person read the food pyramid and the guideline. And then they're ultimately, you know, making this, having this question. Yeah. That's just in my perfect world. That's how it would look like. Yeah. I think that's a reasonable take. Um, the art of public health communication is, is complex. And, um, there's a lot of those implicit decisions that need to be made. And, and it can be challenging if you don't have active knowledge or expertise in this space, because you might be like, well, I understand this stuff really well. And here's how I would communicate it. And that might not land at all with the, you know, the person in front of you, or with the broader public. Yeah. I'd be very curious to know how this was like workshopped. Like they had a focus group after focus group, after focus group. And at the end of focus group is like, we get it. Boot beef, tallow. I'm taking a bath. All right. So we've talked about the good. We've talked about the bad. And now we got to talk about the ugly. We went into the weeds of lipidology, talking about all sorts of stuff related to P to S ratio, saturated fat, et cetera. But maybe there's a hidden cost to this saturated fat endorsement that goes beyond the cholesterol panel. When the cultural narrative shifts so aggressively towards red meat and animal fats, it could create a retreat from plant based foods. Now we know that meat has exactly zero grams of dietary fiber. And we also know that only 6% of Americans currently meet the recommended intake for dietary fiber by prioritizing meat for protein. The guidelines could be contributing to a massive fiber intake delta. And this may be like a sort of substitution trap. In 1992, the original food pyramid, we substituted fat for refined grains. In the new guidelines, we seem to be encouraging people to ignore great sources of fiber that were prominent in the previous guidelines, like beans, peas, lentils, et cetera, and instead choose more calorie dense, zero fiber animal proteins. Austin, are we watching the government repeat the exact same mistake of 1992, where they focused so hard on one variable, protein, that they inadvertently create a whole new public health crisis in the form of a 25 gram per day fiber gap? I don't know that they're going to be creating a new public health crisis, uh, as a result of a fiber, you know, insufficient fiber intake, because most people are already consuming insufficient amounts of this fiber in their diet. There would be, you know, certainly a strong case to be made for potential health benefits by significantly increasing that intake from a variety of plant-based food sources. And I would say that that reflects a, probably the most substantial change in like my own habitual dietary pattern in recent years, yours as well, to, to, to some extent, um, you know, more strongly leaning into a lot more plant-based sources of all sorts of, you know, nutrients, including protein and fiber and things like that, just based on our understanding of the evidence and kind of where it's been. And this, these are not actually based on new findings either, but just kind of becoming more familiar with this whole, whole body of evidence. So to, I don't know that these guidelines represent a clear shift away from high fiber foods, more so like insufficient prioritization of those that would represent good sources of dietary fiber, because they're not recommending against the consumption, for example, of legumes or lentils. But if you look, it's like it might be implied that they're not, you know, placed as high on the, uh, you know, in this inverted pyramid now, um, the, with the base being at the, at the top, oddly. And so, you know, this is in the face of pretty abundant available evidence that we have in terms of food substitutions that substituting, you know, super fatty cuts of meat for some of these plant-derived food sources has a host of health benefits, um, on people. And they in fact do not become acutely protein deficient or chronically protein deficient by making such a substitution. A lot of things stand to improve. So again, fundamentally, people aren't reading or listening or paying attention to these, to, to the guidelines to make their decisions. If they were, I still don't know that this is going to be like, you know, open up this new health crisis as a result of poor fiber intake, because most people aren't consuming enough anyway. Would I prefer, and I think you would as well, that, uh, the shift and the nudge and the encouragement have gone in the other direction of, you know, more people would stand to benefit from the inclusion of these foods on a regular basis in their diets, recognizing that like legumes are honestly, you know, super culturally prominent in some parts of the world and not terribly so in the U S and we would actually stand to benefit by, you know, increasing their prevalence in our habitual, uh, diets for, for a lot of reasons. Yeah. I think we would both prefer that for a lot of potential health benefits. That's not the way that they went. I, again, my pre-registered hypothesis here is that that, um, that choice is unlikely to, you know, make a hugely deleterious impact. Um, just as I would predict that if they had emphasized it more, I'm still not sure it would have had a hugely beneficial impact either. Yeah. The, you imagine though, so they, they bumped the protein intake up, right? And let's say they made this pyramid and with that steak and that cheese nugget in the chicken, it's just a big bean instead. They're like, look, we want you to eat more protein primarily by increasing your legume intake. Like eat more edamame. Yeah. They've, you know, we're, you're taking, um, a subgroup of vegetables and you're combining into a subgroup for protein foods and like ultimately the increase in fiber would be generally good. Uh, did you ever watch the Netflix series travelers? The travelers? All right. So, you know, no spoilers here on the barbomesson pockets. We don't do any spoiling. Uh, but basically these people from the future come back and they try to prevent the end of the world, right? And they're like, yeah, the standard story and something I would definitely watch you would, you would like this series. Interestingly, they're all vegans in the future and they come back and the idea, they look around, there's one scene. They're looking around everyone's eating meat and they're like, it's a smart barrier. Yeah. But I think that kind of, that kind of like touches on just most people who go down this, you know, health, fitness, wellness, sort of rabbit hole, particularly with, uh, formal education and, you know, review of the evidence, you tend to shift. Towards having more plant-based food in your diet. Um, it doesn't mean you necessarily switch to a vegetarian or vegan, but, um, you include more because you just, it's overwhelming. You just can't ignore it. Like even with the most, I'm good at rationalizing. I am excellent at it, but I cannot rationalize away all of that evidence. And so yeah, that would have been interesting if the food pyramid is like, yeah, we flipped it upside down. Now it looks like a piece of pizza, but the top corner, this is huge being. That would have been interesting. So also this ignores anything about like planetary health, uh, which we are not experts in, but like to the extent that this changes that at all. Some concerns, some concerns there. All right. So we're, we're still in the ugly section here. There's some non-nutritive sweetener hate here, which why? Like it, I think, you know, there are issues with the evidence on non-nutritive sweeteners, mainly because when you look at it by and large, they do not discriminate between where that not does non-nutritive sweeteners are coming from. Meaning like there are many ultra processed foods that again, low, not very filling, high in calories, contain a bunch of stuff that you probably don't want. You go, oh yeah, by the way, you're going to eat too much of it. That have non-nutritive sweeteners in their artificial sweeteners or naturally occurring, uh, sweeteners that still don't have any calories. And so if you compare somebody who's eating a lot of those to somebody who's eating none of those, you're like, see non-nutritive sweeteners, terrible for you. Instead, if you just restrict your analysis to people that are eating foods with added sugars or consuming drinks, sugar, sweetened beverages, being the most prominent. They're replacing those with non-nutritive sweeten beverages. There's an improvement. And so it just seemed weird. Like again, this is a pretty short document. Why even waste the, you know, the text on this? There's so many other things. Like it just seemed like a weird kind of line in the sand to draw and like not accurate also. Yeah. I think, you know, anybody who is taking an honest look at the overall body of evidence and, uh, about these in particular, but also about like the state of public health in general is going to have a hard time making a case that the use of non-nutritive sweeteners in general, or any one of them in particular is like contributing to a large fraction of like public morbidity or premature mortality or something like that. So I agreed that I wouldn't waste my time worrying about these. Yeah. In fact, I would have done the opposite. More Diet Cokes. Sure. Yeah. Let's do it. Uh, then this other weird thing that falls definitively in the ugly sort of category, there's this retreat on alcohol. It went from two drinks for men, one drink for women, um, which admittedly is not great. Cause like, what is a drink? There was no like this is a standard drink, but whatever guidelines. And now it's to a, to a vague consume less cause apparently it's a social lubricant. While the less is better, that's certainly true. This shift towards vagueness is like a classic policy pivot. It's lip service that a boy's holding the industry accountable while leaving the consumer without a concrete target, just less. Again, I would prefer it say like generally speaking, alcohol is not health promoting as little as possible. Like that'd be fine. It probably, you know, anger some people that should help me contribute to, to the development of these guidelines, but it would also have the benefit of being accurate. Um, yeah. And also Dr Oz wouldn't be like a meme right now. So, so bizarre. Yeah. It's honestly, it's like, what is your job? What are you being asked to do? What are you charged with? You are not here to be the secretary of social lubrication. I'll say that, right? If you, if you, if you, if you, if you were, then that would be your primary charge of finding all the things that, uh, you know, confer that supposed benefit, uh, almost independent of their potential risks. And then you can state your case and you can be part of a committee. Then you're like, well, I'm here, you know, from the standpoint of social lubrication and here's a beneficial thing. And then you can debate with people from the other side who were just like, nah, but, uh, it also leads to increased risk of all sorts of downstream health consequences and problems. And then you can hash it out and see which, you know, has the greater net benefit or net harm, which I think is not a controversial thing for anybody taking an honest look at these. So this is just an example of that kind of, you know, going from the scientific committee level to the post processing, the filtering, how language can get weakened and massaged, uh, a little bit based on the stakeholders and who's, uh, involved in that decision making to make these guidelines ultimately a bit impotent, uh, by the end, just to, you know, less. It's like, yeah, a lot of people get told that they should probably drink less. This is often not news to them, um, in, in many of these situations. Um, but that's not with the purpose of these guidelines and nor are the guidelines intended to help, you know, socialize the population. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, look, if there's a department for social lubrication, I'm signed up here for it. Well, I'm here for that in the space force. Like if I'm signing up for both. All right. So the other ugly part. And perhaps the most interesting to you, Dr. Baraki is the uptake and the potential for that. So first off, what are these guidelines actually do? And most people think that these guidelines are just a pamphlet for doctors offices or something to like post up in the school cafeteria. But in reality, they are the budgeting blueprint for billions of dollars in annual federal spending. So we got that national school lunch program. It's 30 million children. Beads every day. You got the, the WIC program. You've got SNAP supplemental nutrition assistance program, military rations and VA hospitals. This could theoretically affect a lot of, uh, actual meals going in actual bodies every day to the extent this changes. So now like all of the French fries served in the school cafeteria or they're, you know, tap from tallow. Like what? Or like you can't get diet soda anymore because non-nutritive sweeteners. Generally bad. Like again, what? Some of this is hyperbole, but it's like the same amount of hyperbole from the other side of the coin. I shudder to think what these changes would actually have on the national school lunch program because if the current budget is X, right? This amount of money. And now we're, proteins got to go up specifically from animal sources, which are generally more expensive. Oh, by the way, no non-nutritive sweeteners can use.  can't use any of those. And we're going to cook in beef tallow and butter. So it's gotten way more expensive and less health promoting. Doesn't seem like a win to me. I'm going to come back to my hot take from earlier. Tell me what outcome you're hoping to impact by making this change. Here's the outcome that I'm looking for. Here's what I expect is going to happen. Here's how long I expect it's going to take for this to manifest wholesale. I expect to see children's health improve in this way. I want to see children's blood pressure come down, their BMIs or their growth charts, they'll fall back onto a healthy part of the growth chart. Childhood obesity will go down. These are all the things that I'm expecting will happen as a result of me switching to cooking fries and beef tallow and these other sorts of things in schools. If that happens by this date, that will reinforce my hypothesis. I'll pat myself on the back and we'll carry on. Okay. If it does not happen, I'll be forced to reject my hypothesis and we will alter the plan, go in a different direction, test an alternative hypothesis or revert back to what we were doing before. They won't do that. No, people will not pre-register their hypothesis like this, but that would be how I would charge them with these kinds of things. If they are put into positions of power with the ability to impact these policies, then that's what I'm looking for. That's what I want to hear. Yeah, and that's just like federally subsidized uptake. What about the actual uptake in the public? To me, this also raises just the price point of eating a guidelines type diet. They talk about protein floor and moving away from shelf stable refined grains. They're making a massive assumption that the American consumer can't afford to participate if you got time to prep, quote, real food and a budget for 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day of high quality animal protein. Look, you're in, you're in the club. Whereas most vulnerable populations are in low socioeconomic status brackets. These guidelines don't look like a map at all. They look like a wall. Now the previous my plate guidelines, it was estimated that this would cost about $1,200 a month for a family of four. That's a previous guidelines, right? Would definitively be cheaper than these current guideline recommended food stuffs. The food budget on the other hand for the average middle income family in America is $518 a month. For low income is $322 a month. This is a budgetary crisis. Protein, animal sources in particular, the prices are forecasted to rise. Plant product prices have been relatively stable price wise. Also ironically legumes are incredibly cheap. Yeah, 100%. Like yeah, there's a lot of, you know, specialized niche or unique scenarios that are not addressed here. They're just like fundamentally excluded or not recognized. And that's honestly where skilled dieticians are so valuable is by recognizing and having solutions and ways to improve the nutrition and health of these selected situations that people have. Maybe socioeconomic in nature, maybe medical in nature. And you're right that many of them are just not at all addressed by the guidelines. You're just kind of like out of the club unfortunately. Yeah, sorry. Yeah. Thanks for playing. And then finally, again, probably your favorite part of this entire podcast. No one follows the guidelines. Researchers often use this metric called the healthy eating index to measure adherence to dietary guidelines on a scale from zero to 100. The average American score has hovered around 56 to 58 per decades. Interestingly, since about 1999, these healthy eating index scores have actually improved slightly, reading slightly more whole fruit and fewer empty calories, just a little bit. Yet obesity and metabolic disease have increased significantly since that timeframe. Data shows on average only about 10% of the population follows the guidelines with any consistency. Now this is based on surveillance data from questionnaires. They're not following people around and like, oh, you ate that. So this is self-reported, by the way. It's probably like the physical activity guidelines. It's probably half that. If that, so maybe 5% charitably. For the other 90 or 95%, the guidelines are just background noise in a food environment that's screaming at them to eat more and eat stuff that's not on the food pyramid anyway. So like, I don't know how many millions of dollars were spent to formulate this thing, but like the two potentially good things compared to the bad and the ugly, I'm like, it feels like that money could have been better allocated. You know, like an exercise promotion one. If RFK Junior and the MAHA movement was like, we gotta exercise and we're gonna take all this money and do this, we might not agree with the implementation, but we'd find a lot less to be like, look, and you did this wrong too, I think. Yeah. I have little else to add at this point beyond, pay attention to the trends, the trajectories, the outcomes, adjust for the impact of biomedical innovation, science, GLP-1 agonist, things like that, and then be prepared to change your opinion if things do not go in the direction that you expect in the coming years to decades. That's a long enough time horizon that, you know, by the time it becomes abundantly clear whether this is working or not, people will have forgotten this saga anyway. So I continue to lack a great deal of optimism on that front either, but I wish that there was more kind of intellectual, honesty, logical consistency. You know, there's other areas of these guidelines that for example, criticize the use of observational data in one realm while heavily leaning into observational data in another realm. And so just the logical incoherence and inconsistency of it, I think is what is probably most frustrating because I know it's not gonna get better. Yeah. Yeah, I think there's some argument here that these guidelines are kind of a form of policy lip service by providing this like what to eat framework. The government places the entire burden of health on individual choice. Like if you get sick, the government can say, well, we told you to eat all the protein and avoid the ultra process food. It's not our fault, your fault. This of course ignores the upstream policies that dictate what food is available. And the new food pyramid doesn't fix the farm bill, it just changes the educational advice, educational doing a lot of heavy lifting in that phrasing. So Austin, we're looking at a nearly $100 billion policy shift here, but when we look at the HEI scores, we see that the average American is basically failing in nutrition tests every single day. Is the new food pyramid actually designed to change the American diet? Or is it just a political rebrand that allows the government to look busy while the underlying food environment, the subsidies and the ultra process food availability remain completely untouched? I don't actually know that the underlying food environment is gonna be completely untouched. It may be the case that some incentives change, realign, there might be some food reformulation, I hope not, but maybe even to more align with some of this stuff of like, you know, there's some of these restaurants, like you look at, I think it was Shake Shack or something that said like now 100% beef tallow price and stuff like that or Steak and Shake, sorry. Don't sue us, whoever I said, whoever I said, that's the first step. I'll cut that out. And so there's some impact on things. It's just hard to predict what the impact is gonna be when historical uptake of these guidelines has been relatively poor. You're right that, you know, as we've talked about on our last podcast as well, the availability of calories and the way that those calories are packaged and delivered are surrounding food environment dictates way more of our routine habitual food related behaviors and our eating behaviors, much, much, much more than any graphic, any guideline, any label that's slapped onto the side of a, you know, cereal box or milk carton as we learned when we were kids too. And so I, this is ultimately a bit of a shrug for me. I, you know, I think that there's just a lot of moving parts here between guidelines, how that impacts policy, the biomedical space and like our best attempts to fight back against these things or like trying to hold back the doors with, you know our meager tools like, you know, trezeppatized and things like that. So ultimately where it all shakes out is gonna obviously remain to be seen. And then, you know, in another five years, who knows who's gonna be in power writing these guidelines, designing these guidelines and we might be, I don't know, back to square one again. Yeah, I'll be curious if there's any impact on these new guidelines and new food pyramid on that, you know, big food trial that we talked about on the last podcast is like, do they enter this as evidence? Like, look, even the government admits this is problematic. That would be interesting. And the subsequent downstream effects from that or even upstream, like as far as policies related to subsidized crops and such, but then there's more complicated food insecurity so on and so forth. To me, I don't know, this is maybe a little more hokey so you can roll your eyes if you like or maybe you agree. I think if you put the American public in a room, you've somehow got them all in a room and you said, what do we agree on with respect to nutrition? Everyone would agree, look, if you live here, you should have the opportunity to eat a health promoting dietary pattern. We want our food supply to generally be healthy. We don't want too many restrictions because this is the land of liberty. So we want to be in charge, but we also want our basic food supply and water supply and everything else to be healthy, especially for children and vulnerable populations. I think everybody would be on board for that. There might be one straggler who's like, nah, make it unhealthy. It's like South Park, you know, riders for example. I think you're less likely to have people who say, no, make it unhealthy, but more so people who are like, no, I'm not willing to pay for it to be healthy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's hard to achieve that and that's where people would start to disagree. But if this food pyramid came out and it was like, look, we want everybody to have the opportunity to eat a health promoting dietary pattern. Here's how we think that should be laid out and here's how we're gonna do about it. Yeah, people would disagree perhaps on the implementation, but there's this opportunity for like cohesion and unification, like look, we're all in this together, let's work together, but instead they chose violence. They're like, nah, we're gonna lean into this like heavily meat focused thing. We're gonna make some strange choices about saturated fat intake and ignore, you know, mountains of research on fiber and legumes and such like that. Just seems like missed opportunity. And also like one mention about exercise, I don't know, it just could have done better. That to me is, we could have done better. Well, I mean, always could do better. These things are gonna continue to evolve with time. I think, you know, whether this ends up being a more consistent trend or whether this ends up being a blip kind of depends on, you know, how we vote in a couple of years. So TBD. TBD. All right, so what I did, we've talked about the, you know, new food pyramid and old food pyramids and everything else. I thought, well, what if we were tasked with coming up with some, our own version of a dietary guideline, you know? Like, no, we don't have a multimillion dollar budget to recruit the best interdisciplinary team available to help us out. Then again, the new food pyramid seemed to ignore most of their experts anyway, so we could just be in the clear. Instead, yeah, we've taken the latest evidence surrounding dietary practices and boiled it down to the Barba Medicine Dietary Guidelines for Americans, particularly adults. Our philosophy is pretty simple. Dietary behavior isn't a matter of willpower, it's an emergent process. It happens when your genetics and your subconscious appetite regulation collide with the food environment that's been engineered to be frictionless. So a few points here. First off, we're starting with energy and the environment. This needs to be a reality check. Again, this is an emergent process, like how much food we eat. And so we need to, to the extent it's possible, to modify our microenvironments, what happens at home, what happens at the office, so on and so forth. We would like to make those foods rich in either minimally processed foods or processed foods that don't have added sugar in them or are hyperpalatable, very tasty, and have a lot of calories. To the extent we can do that, that would be awesome. We would also wanna make sure that folks are eating in a way that's not distracted. So no screens at the table, and oh yeah, by the way, ideally eat at a table if you can. We think that should result in a better amount of energy intake or calorie intake by default, meaning that you don't have to weigh and measure every single thing, log everything into an app. But if you wanted a calorie target, there are opportunities and resources for that. We have our own calorie calculator you could use if you want. For protein, 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of total body weight per day is fine. That can go up to 1.6 grams per kilogram body weight. That's fine for most. It could be higher if you train hard or if you prefer a higher protein intake. Nothing really bad is gonna happen. It's just gonna cost more money. And further, where we deviate from the new food pyramid is that the source doesn't really matter as much as the total number. We do agree you should prioritize lean protein, particularly unprocessed sources, so chicken breast, fish, legumes, Greek yogurt, tofu, et cetera. And yeah, we would lean heavily into more plant-based proteins, particularly because of fiber intake. Also relatively cheap comparatively. Next, moving on to fruit and vegetable. The current guidelines say, look, get at least three servings of vegetables and two servings of fruit per day. We wouldn't disagree with that. We would just say, try to have more if you can. And it doesn't matter if it's frozen or fresh, just have more. And vary them as much as possible. We want folks to target at least 30 to 40 grams of fiber per day, which I think is another thing missing from the current guidelines. Just put it out there. It's a number, but some people would be interested in seeing that. Other thing to include here is that whole fruit is better than fruit juice. You could blend it if you want to, because that preserves the fiber, but juicing removes the pulp. It can be frozen fruit as well if you want to do this. For carbohydrates, two rules of thumb that Austin talked about in a recent fiber action plan, both comparing the grams of carbohydrates to the grams of fiber. And those two ratios are five to one and 10 to one. If a food has a ratio of five to one, grams of carbohydrates to grams of fiber, that makes it an elite choice. We're talking about things like lentils, raspberries, non-starchy vegetables. If a carbohydrate source has 10 grams of carbohydrates to at least one gram of fiber, that is acceptable. Likely a processed food or a starchy carbohydrate, both of those can help you meet your health goals. For fat intake, we would recommend to reduce the fat intake from red meat and also butter, also beef tallow if we're being explicit here. If someone was looking for a numerical target, it would be less than 10% of total calories from saturated fat. You don't need to micromanage and specifically count milk or yogurt if you don't want to. In fact, I think most people shouldn't be micromanaging their saturated fat intake. We would also advise to limit dietary cholesterol if you're at high risk for heart disease and focus on increasing the intake of polyunsaturated and mono-unsaturated fats from like olive oil, fish, nuts, et cetera, ultimately to reduce the risk of heart disease. With respect to ultra-processed foods, we would agree with the current guidelines to limit them, particularly foods with added sugar. So you can look on the label for syrups, things that end in OSE and so on, particularly liquid foods that have added sugar, like sodas, for example. So soft drinks, also sweetened cereals, instant soups, frozen pizzas, check out the label. On the other hand, we disagree that people should inherently limit non-nutritive sweeteners, especially when we're talking about liquid foods. So replacing sugar-sweetened beverages like sodas with the diet versions can be useful, but ultimately, if we're gonna keep coming back to the same thing, your diet probably shouldn't be that sweet overall. Moving on to alcohol and sodium, I think the recommendation of limiting alcohol intake to one to two standard drinks per day or abstain is fine. It increases the reward value of food, provides non-filling or non-satiating liquid calories, so you'd wanna balance that against any perceived benefits, but ultimately, if somebody's not drinking already, I don't think there's a health benefit to starting drinking, and generally speaking, less alcohol is better. For sodium intake, we would recommend to attack this by reducing intake of ultra-processed foods, especially those that have a lot of sodium. And then that's the primary source of excess sodium in the diet, as well as an increased calorie intake. So you come at it from both of those ends, eating less calories overall based on a better dietary pattern that defaults to a more correct energy intake and also reduction in ultra-processed food intake reduces sodium intake. That doesn't apply to athletes. Their sodium needs are highly variable, and that's outside of what would be the dietary guidelines for Americans that be dietary guidelines for athletes. For example, when we have a hydration podcast, we can refer you to on that. And finally, for supplements, now you're like, look, these are dietary guidelines for Americans. Why the heck are you talking about supplements? Come on, man. We'll look, 75% of Americans take dietary supplements every year, it's a $35 billion a year market. And we wanna make sure that people are doing so responsibly. So a few things. One, you'd wanna make sure that your supplement that you're taking is third-party tested. The biggest sort of players in the space are NSF, informed for sport, that's who we use, USP. This is gonna be on the label somewhere. If it's not on the label and you still have questions, you can search these databases to make sure that they are third-party tested. You'd also wanna make sure that your supplement is certified for current good manufacturing processes, should also be on the label. What appears as a CGMP sort of shield type thing most of the time. And then after meeting those two criteria, there should be good evidence for not only safety, but as well as efficacy. Does it do the thing that you're taking it for? If a supplement meets all of those, we're probably in favor of you doing so, if you wanna spend the money. Fortunately or unfortunately, depending on what your perspective is here, not a lot of supplements fit all those. So your supplement bill will be maybe less than you think. But on the other hand, if you own a supplement company, you probably didn't like that section. Yeah, I think that's fair. That's my similar take on the approach to supplements is like there should be a concrete benefit that I'm looking for, that for some reason is applicable to me. And I want to feel confident that it is going to deliver that to me and that it is gonna be safe in doing so. And I don't know, there are very, very few supplements that meet those criteria. I even kind of shrug at taking creatine myself, not much more beyond that. Your brain health. Yeah, sure. Your brain, come on. How are you so smart without creatine? There are certainly some supplements that have maybe some more benefit for unique scenarios that don't necessarily apply to me, that I'd be open to discussing with somebody on a case by case basis. But overall, these guidelines are reasonable. I think that they reflect a lot of how you and I both tend to eat, I would say, more plants, more training, less sugar, less alcohol. Might be an even simpler way to distill things down for a lot of people that would have a net benefit on population health. I would feel more confident that if I said those four things that there'd be a bigger shift in population health if they were to uptake it, then by leaning harder into beef tallow. But that's my hot take for this one. Big bean energy. Yeah. All right, well, as we wrap this up, I'm struck by a sense of deja vu. In the 90s, we were given a map that ignored the biological reality of refined grains because it was more convenient for the economy. Now, we're being given a new map that corrects the protein error, but seems to ignore the reality of lipidology, fiber, and food practices of the American public in general, all while creating division in the public. The reality is that the new food pyramid is mostly the same, it's mostly fine, and it likely won't change how people eat in America. Now, barbal medicine, our guidelines, are born from the existing evidence base and our experience in the field. We focus on things that actually move the needle if people were to do them. So things like environmental mastery, a protein recommendation that supports muscle and training, a fiber to carb ratio that protects the gut, and a P to S ratio that guards the heart. Now, if you wanna take a deeper look at the barbal medicine dietary guidelines, we've put together a comprehensive resource on our website that will be available soon. It'll be in the show notes as soon as it's ready. If you found this episode helpful, please share it with a friend or a family member. The best way to combat a rigged food environment is through community and shared evidence. While you're there, leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week. This is the new Weight Watchers. It works for members like Jojo, who's learning simple, healthy habits. Sharia, who's making progress with meds. And Kim, who still gets to eat what she loves. For over 60 years, we've helped millions of members find what works for them. Now, it's your turn. Watch your life open up. Watch your story shift. Watch what you're capable of. Watch it work. Get started today at WeightWatchers.com. If you're a podcast host, listen up this one's for you. My name is Ali Jackson. I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle. And I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform. With Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in AdSales. It's not just typical AdSales either. It's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple. You just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You can vet every opportunity. And their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast on social media. To really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle. I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to RedCircle.com to get your free trial. That's RedCircle.com for a free trial.

=== FILE: Episode #385- Why Grip Strength Predicts Death (And Why You Shouldn't Train It) [dp0wCR34Kj0].txt ===

 autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo when in reality, it's just the thermometer. If you train your grip to, quote, live longer, you're essentially holding a match under that thermometer to make the room feel warmer. You might see a higher number on the dial, but the house is still freezing. Today, we're moving past the squeeze of spring mentality and looking at the grip strength for what it actually is, a high-fidelity thermometer for many of the most important systems in your body. We're deconstructing the biomechanics, the predictive power of hand grip strength and disease, and all the nuance in between. And to help us get into it, I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, feeling all right. No complaints today. My grip strength is intact and normal bilaterally. So let's get into it. How do you know? I guess that's right. If I did manual muscle testing on myself, testing my grip strength with one hand onto the other, I could potentially trick myself. I don't know. Well, it's kind of like measuring your blood pressure at home. Theoretically, you could do it if you had a validated device and you did it with the correct procedure and everything else. This is true. We need the same sort of setup for grip strength, and we'll get into that. But first, let's talk about what is grip strength and to understand why the grip is such a powerful diagnostic. We got to look at the anatomy first. Most people think that the power that we create or the force you create for grip strength is in the hand, but really it's kind of like a wireless terminal for a motor that's located much further upstream. Now, Austin, you've done this a few times, but now we get to do it for real. I want to double click on that wireless concept to set the stage for why hand grip strength is getting so much air time in the health and longevity spaces. I want you to walk us through the entire pathway from the moment the motor cortex sends the command down through the spinal cord all the way until the muscles actually contract. What has to go right for that signal to result in a maximal squeeze? Yeah, it's an interesting pathway and one that I outlined in, I would say, a mild amount of detail in our last mystery case where we had the individual who had the foot drop scenario. And this is something that comes up a lot clinically when a patient is experiencing some form of, you know, ideally objective weakness that there is for us to evaluate in a particular area of the body. I'm not going to go through every detail of the neuroanatomy involved for, you know, the sake of our audience, but, you know, the movement starts up in the brain. There's this combination of, well, there's the like intent, the volitional aspect of deciding to make a movement to the extent that we ever decide anything. But there are also involuntary ways by which a movement can be generated that we do not volitionally choose. And all of this is originating, well, I would say most of it, I can even think of some exceptions there, up in the brain. And so there are a few different kind of converging pathways in the brain, multiple different areas, the volitional aspects, the, you know, subcortical or subconscious aspects that kind of integrate, come together. And then their signals travel down through the brainstem, down into the spinal cord, and then emerge from the spinal cord at a particular spinal root. And then that turns into a motor nerve. And that nerve sends its signal down to the end of the nerve called a neuromuscular junction where some neurotransmitters are released. Those trigger the muscle to have some kind of, we'll call it some electrical changes and some ions shift around. And that leads to what's called depolarization of the muscle. And then there's some chemical signals that proceed from there that lead proteins within the muscle cell to interact, leading them to link up, contract, the muscle shortens, and then muscles end in tendons that cross joints. And so when that muscle shortens and it tugs on that joint, it leads to movement of the body. And so from start to finish, that is the pathway that we think about for normal force production in a particular area. And if someone is telling me subjectively that they feel like an area is weak or objectively on exam, I am determining that they are weak in an area. My job is to try to figure out where along that entire pathway could something be going wrong. We narrow that down based on the history, the timing, whether there are also sensory versus just motor alone, whether it's symmetrical on two sides of the body or just one or multiple different areas of the body. There's all sorts of ways that we can try to narrow down where could this problem be using history, using exam, and then using forms of imaging and things like that as well. Yeah. Yeah. I think outlining that whole, you know, we'll call it a neuroaxis and then myoaxis, if you want to get, you know, real technical and how those things converge together is important for understanding like kind of what has to go right for you to actually do a hand grip strength test or really squeeze a barbell, dumbbell person. But the main takeaway here is that all of these command centers are outside of the hand. So, for example, if your brain, if there's an issue there, you're not going to get the signal to the muscles that actually are responsible for making a grip. That's not going to fire. And then further, once that signal actually gets down to the level of the arm, the primary force producers for a hand grip strength test are outside of the hand. We call these extrinsic hand muscles. Mostly these are the forearm flexors, the real motors of the system here. So flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus. If you remember from your anatomy days, these just, you know, big sheaths of muscles with really long tendons. Yeah. But those don't work in isolation. There are muscles on the other side that have to create force to stabilize the wrist joint. And then obviously muscles within the hand, we call those intrinsic hand muscles, have to be functioning for you to, you know, fine tune that and make sure you're gripping the right thing and everything else. But yeah, the other big thing to note here is that the force is transferred through these high tensile tendons. And everyone's familiar with the tendon, you know, connects a muscle to a bone to exert force on the bone and pull it closer. Usually, you know, that's the idea here. It goes through the carpal tunnel, the flexor retinaculum. These are more anatomy terms you don't need to know. But effectively, if anything goes wrong in this system, grip strength is going to be compromised. Or if you applied this logic to another muscle, strength overall would be compromised. And so when you're doing a hand grip strength test, you're not just testing finger strength. You're testing the integrity of this entire system from the brain to the bone and position. Well, position of the hand and the wrist, that is, also matters. So for example, there's this 3-5-3 rule that was told to me by a hand surgeon friend of mine. And to the extent this is a rule or more of just like something to think about, it means that when you are trying to test somebody's grip strength or your grip strength, the wrist has to be in extension. Approximately 35 degrees, this is like a self-determined extension position. So like when you're bench pressing or pressing, you don't need to get out the goiniometer and be like, am I at 35 degrees? It's just going to happen naturally when you squeeze as hard as you can. But if you were to try to test grip strength with a flexed wrist, you get what's called active insufficiency. It effectively pre-shortens some of the muscles and prevents optimal sort of cross-bridging. You talked about the proteins in the muscle. They have to link up and if they don't link up in a nice way, force production or strength is compromised. And so in addition to that degree of wrist extension, trying to bend your wrist back towards your forearm, there's also some thought that you need to be in three to five degrees of ulnar deviation. And if you're in anatomical position with your palms facing forward, pinkies towards the inside or medial aspect of your body, if you were to try to deviate your wrist or move your wrist towards your body, that's ulnar deviation. Again, you don't need to consciously think about this stuff. When you just go to squeeze something real, real hard, it just sort of happens. Yeah, well, I'm actively testing this under my desk as you describe it and I can definitely feel stronger and weaker positions if my wrist is flexed a little bit forward or if it's a little bit more radially deviated, for example, and listeners can even test this out for themselves at home. Just squeeze your wrist as hard as you can but then try to put it into flexion and you'll feel like, oh, I'm not actually able to squeeze quite as hard in this position. It just feels awkward to do it this way. So yeah, interesting. Yeah, when I try to teach the overhead press to people, for example, and we talk about the grip and they're like, what should I do? Especially if somebody's really into it, which I can appreciate as a fellow nerd, game recognized game, I tell them, put your hands out in front of you kind of like your Frankenstein and then just make as tight of a fist as you can and watch what happens to your wrist and it extends and it tends to deviate towards the ulnar side a little bit as well. So that's one of the positions that matters. Another thing, it's not really positional but more of just a quirk and feature of the hand grip strength test. There's this thought that there is a 10% difference on average between the dominant limb and the non-dominant limb. So you'd have differences in side to side. And so this was thought to only be at the level of the hand and then people found it. Well, no, actually the whole arm, particularly in untrained individuals, that asymmetry tends to narrow when people are trained. However, when you look at the research on this, left-handed individuals tend to not actually have this asymmetry since it tends to be one-to-one, which I thought was interesting. Is it because we're forcing left-handed people to operate in a right-handed environment? Were they only testing surgeons? They're like, look, we don't have any left-handed instruments. It's only right-handed instruments. It's kind of interesting, though. Yeah, it is interesting. I mean, there was certainly a long time where people who are lefties were forced into a right-handed world. And I think these days this is less and less of a thing that tends to happen. I know that Lorraine is a lefty who actually is quite dexterous, both literally and she's able to do a lot of things with her right arm just as well, sometimes even better. So there is some interesting adaptability. Yeah, but so if somebody saw, if you saw an asymmetry testing somebody's hand grip strength side to side of 10% or whatever, this wouldn't be abnormal, especially if they're right-handed. And even if they're left-handed and you see a slight asymmetry side to side, again, not really a cause for alarm. Where we think there's sort of like this line in the sand where you're like, that is odd and I want to investigate that further, is when there's a 20% difference side to side. There's a thought that that is a kind of red flag clinical sign where there could be a pathology at the level of the neck, whether it's a disc herniation, a fracture, nerve root issue, maybe in the brachial plexus, that's this big bundle of nerves that serves your upper extremity or a local nerve sort of issue because it's just a greater than predicted difference side to side. Now, of course, based on what Austin's talked about so far, that assumes everything else in the system is good. Brain's working good, tendon's working good, bone's working good, you know, there's no other issue. But yeah, that's just sort of some of the quirks and features of the hand grip strength here. There's other stuff like if somebody has a smaller or larger hand, for example, and the handle on the hand grip strength test, it's this little handheld device which you guys have probably seen. If it's too far away or too close, that can compromise your reading. If the texture on the actual handle is slippery, for example, that can compromise the output. And so there's a lot of interesting stuff to do this correctly, not dissimilar to like blood pressure testing, for example. People are like, oh, just take your blood pressure. And it's like, well, is the cuff the right size? Is it in the right position? Do you have to pee? Are you in pain? Like all sorts of stuff, you know. Well, an interesting caveat or I don't know if I'd call it a correction is when you say like to do it, quote unquote, correctly. And it's not to say that doing it in any of these other ways is incorrect. The issue more so is just, is it something on which you can use our established criteria, right? So all of the ways that we establish our cutoffs for healthy resting blood pressure are based on it being measured in a particular way. And so if you want to use those cutoffs, you should measure it similarly. The same thing would apply here based on the way that these hand grip strength, quote unquote, cutoffs were determined, be it using a, maybe a particular device oriented in a particular way with a particular texture. If you want to use those cutoffs, you need to measure it similarly. It's not to say it's like wrong if you were to measure it in a different way, but rather that you would need a new set of cutoffs established on that, right? So if the original studies on blood pressure were all done in people who had to pee and were standing up, probably 120 over 80 would not be considered the normal blood pressure. We would just have a different set of cutoffs. And then anytime we wanted to measure somebody's blood pressure, we'd have to make sure they're standing up and had to pee. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So I can envision a scenario like if you went into a clinic, maybe a predatory clinic, I don't think this exists, but you know, whatever. Humans never fail to disappoint and they were like, we're going to make sure this guy has a low grip strength. We're going to cut him down to size. And they're like, hey, so to test your grip strength, we're going to have you, your elbow is going to be at 90 degrees. You're going to be seated like you should and then flex your wrist as much as possible and then grab onto this thing. And they're like, see, you're low. You need to start TRT. And you're like, much like testosterone clinics that send you to get your labs done at 5 p.m. You know, after a meal and a poor night of sleep. Yeah, they set you up for failure there. Yeah. So ultimately, all of these things need to be, quote, correct in order to get an accurate measurement to use the data that we have. And, you know, there's a bunch of different things that can be altered. Like if your wrist is flexed, if the handle is slippery, if the distance to squeeze is odd, well, you can get a weak movement, but that doesn't necessarily mean you have true sort of weakness based on this test. So now that we understand the mechanical chain, we need to look at what happens when the chain starts to reflect systemic failure. So Austin, from a clinical perspective, we see grip strength used as a test for sarcopenia as seen in the recent guidelines. Could you talk about the distinction between dinapenia and sarcopenia and why the signal in the hand often fails before the muscle itself actually disappears? Yeah, I think we both have thoughts on this. And even if the guidelines might, you know, describe the use of grip strength as a diagnostic test for sarcopenia, I personally don't use it for a variety of reasons. Practical limitations as well as kind of like when we talk about the use of waist measurement in practice, it's a great measure when it's done properly, but there's a lot of ways that people can mess up a waist measurement. And similarly, as you've laid out so far, a lot of ways that a grip strength test, even using a supposedly, you know, validated dynamometer can be done in a way that limits the validity of the data that you get in terms of how do I apply it to the cutoff. So I personally tend to use other assessments when I'm, you know, evaluating somebody for this, but yep, it's a very popularly discussed tool in the context of sarcopenia. This other term that you mentioned, dynopenia, is one that is, I think, a less well-appreciated, maybe we're doing our part in bringing it more to the forefront these days because it is more our interest in that dynopenia refers more specifically to strength and power, much more so than sarcopenia traditionally was thought of as just muscle mass. As we started to realize that health outcomes and things like that were better correlated with strength and power than with muscle mass, they tried to fold in muscle mass and strength into the term sarcopenia, which is how you'll often find it. But then I think it's just been split off to this other term, dynopenia. And so some of the differences as I've laid out so far, there's more than just muscle mass that relates to people's ability to produce force. Obviously, having the muscle present is a key component. It is, you know, part of that, we'll call it a final common pathway to force generation because it's at the end of that chain. But there's a lot of stuff that happens beforehand, at least as much, if not more, that has to happen beforehand, starting from the brain all the way down, that spinal cord, that spinal nerve, down to depolarize that muscle. And as you have laid out well in some previous content, including in our sarcopenia podcast, episode, that itself is a neurological event. And so there are neurological changes that happen that can limit the ability to produce force, strength, and power kind of disproportionate to the changes in muscle mass that happen. And then the last thing to consider here is that not all muscle mass is the same. It's kind of like when people criticize BMI and they say, well, BMI doesn't accurately capture, you know, my level of muscularity versus body fat. And it's like, okay, well, if you wanted to use a similar sort of analogy or argument, if you just quantitate somebody's like muscle cross-sectional area, that itself doesn't necessarily distinguish the muscle quality. How much of that cross-sectional area is comprised of lean, you know, contractile tissue versus how much of it has fat infiltration into it versus how much of it involves fibrosis or scarring that is non-contractile in nature but still contributes to the overall muscle bulk or muscle size. And so there are various other factors that can, you know, impact the apparent size of the muscle that might not directly contribute to force production. So these are all kind of interesting caveats and limitations and why dinopenia is a really interesting way to think about things. Muscle strength, muscle power, it integrates that neurological component that may be a bigger factor than just muscle size being lost alone. Yeah, yeah, we talked about this a lot on our sarcopenia podcast where it's like, it's not just the age-related loss of muscle, in fact, it's more so the age-related loss of muscular function, in this case, strength or power. I also prefer cratopenia, which is the loss of muscle power or the inability to produce force rapidly. It depends on which derivative you're taking of the crato of the force reduction. Yeah. So, yeah, that's the whole point is that when you use one of these like functional tests and you could use other stuff, a timed up and go, sit to stand test, these are other sort of functional tests for sarcopenia, which would probably be rebranded as dinapenia or my favorite cratopenia. You're getting a more accurate sort of picture of like, does this person have this condition versus just a loss of muscle mass, which, you know, you can see people whose muscle cross-sectional area decreases, like you said, from a loss of intramuscular fat, you know, this my osteotosis, for example, and you're like, well, your muscle got smaller, but it works better. So am I concerned or not? The point, the whole reason we're talking about hand grip strength is because we often hear that it predicts how long you live, but we need to be precise about the data. And let's start off with some normal grip strength levels. So like body mass index or BMI, there's no single sort of cutoff that applies to everyone. There are ethnic and geographic differences, also age-related differences, and normative data does exist, but you kind of have to go through that with a fine-tooth comb. What's the population that you're talking about and, you know, how are they deriving or creating this normative data? So for like sarcopenia, for example, the latest guidelines suggest that if a man has a hand grip strength of less than 27 kilograms, that's like indicative that a person has high risk for sarcopenia and it's less than 16 kilos for women. But that's kind of like pathology. So what is normal? And I think it's helpful to kind of understand this as like an ever-changing or dynamic sort of metric. Kind of like bone mineral density, it changes over the course of someone's life. It peaks in early adulthood. There's some like maintenance phase towards midlife area. That sort of timeline that declines from midlife onwards in most folks, particularly individuals who are not remaining active. So for example, in a large cohort in the United States, so understanding that that's our population, men between ages 29 to 39, that's where they saw their peak value, which was 51 kilos, almost double the sarcopenia cutoffs. And it was 31 kilos for women between ages 26 and 42. Now, after that, the hand grip strength seems to decline at a rate of approximately 1% per year after age 40. And it accelerates even more than that after age 65. This can be slowed with resistance training. We're going to talk about the specifics of that later. It tends to be better, meaning that exercise tends to have a better effect when it's heavy. So at least 60% of an individual's one rep max. There are smaller effects of resistance training on grip strength performance when it's indirect, meaning you're not, someone's not actually doing straight up grip strength training, whether it's crushers, whether it's plate pinches, hold, whatever. So you get larger effects on how you train. So theoretically, you could get somebody to go into the gym and maybe they were a, quote, grip maxer. And they were like, look, I got to get my grip strength up to that. Who was the guy who just climbed the skyscraper? Alex Honnold? Yeah, yeah. Watched it. I have a picture of him on my phone with the hand grip strength test and he's squeezing it. It says 94 kilos. I mean, yeah, I buy it. Strong, strong. But trying to achieve that is unlikely to improve your sort of health trajectory. And that's going to be a recurring theme throughout this podcast. So if you want to turn it off now, look, you got the, you got the gist of it. You can just turn it off. But we hope you don't because there's more interesting stuff here. So my thought here kind of leave you on a little cliffhanger is acing the test, the goal, or should it just be sort of like a part of the process? So there's some interesting data here. Why does grip strength actually matter? One of the biggest studies that come out in recent times is the Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology Study, also known as the PURE study. This is a large longitudinal population study designed to assess health outcomes across diverse economic and sociocultural settings. So about 140,000 people aged 35 to 70 from 17 different countries. And they were followed for an average of four years to track mortality and health events like developing various diseases. Notably, grip strength was found to be a stronger predictor of all cause and cardiovascular mortality than systolic blood pressure. That's the top number. For every five kilos decrease in grip strength, there was a 17% increased risk of cardiovascular death and a 7% increased risk of non-cardiovascular death. That's the headline. That's what you read in the newspaper or online. I don't know that anybody reads newspapers anymore. Now, interestingly, this was usually not reported. There was no significant association between hand grip strength and incident diabetes, fractures, or injuries from a fall. Other evidence on this, there are a handful of things that are highly suggestive or highly correlated to hand grip strength like all cause mortality, about a 28% risk reduction for those in the highest sort of quartile or segment of hand grip strength compared to the lowest. For cardiovascular disease mortality, so death from heart disease, about 16% risk reduction if you have the highest, you're in the highest cohort, highest group of grip strength compared to the lowest. And this is particularly true in folks without pre-existing heart disease. And then the risk of disability goes down by about 24% for those that are in the highest bracket of hand grip strength compared to the lowest. There were weak or absent associations in a lot of other things, including maybe some things that would surprise you, Dr. Baraki. So leg power, not really associated with it. Walking speed, not really associated with it. Inability to balance, hospital admission, hip fracture, cancer mortality, all weak to absent sort of correlations. So to me, there seems to be this complicated relationship between hand grip strength and health. On the one hand, pun intended, seems to be a very good test of how the musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems are working. There's obviously a lot of overlap between the health of those two systems and others, like the heart, for example. On the other hand, pun intended again, it doesn't seem to correlate with health outcomes like cancer. But what's most interesting is that it doesn't seem to correlate well with strength and function of the body overall, as noted by the findings on leg power, walking speed, balance, risk of falls, and so on. What do you make of that? Gosh, it is an interesting observation and it illustrates, I think, some of the areas where there's utility to this measure as well as areas where there are limitations to it. I like the way you described it as kind of like an integrator of neuromuscular function in a similar way to how popular VO2 max measurements have been in recent years. And to be fair, a VO2 max metric is a really quite good integrator of not just cardiorespiratory and like oxygen delivery physiology, but also an integrator of maybe some degree of genetic predisposition and then also an integrator of to the extent you have trained it, it is something that necessitates some degree of training to build up to very, very high levels in most people. So the use of these tools as integrators is, I would say, interesting. There's some differences between these two, again, in terms of like, say with VO2 max, if you train towards the test, I'm more confident that there are likely to be some health benefits as a result, whereas if you train very pointedly towards hand grip strength improvements, I'm less confident that there are going to be like tons of downstream health benefits to it, but yeah, we know that or we would expect there to be some correlation, for example, between hand grip strength and the amount of overall muscularity and lean body mass that someone has, and that itself is something that is partially influenced by genetics, much like how I mentioned VO2 max is, it is an integrator of other things, general health, endocrine, hormone status, things like that, and to the extent that somebody is well trained, there can be some impact there, but as far as teasing apart, why do we see this like variation between hand grip strength as a metric and all of these different health outcomes, I think it's going to be very difficult to have a clear, confident explanation for why this and not that, there's obviously some combination of well, how good of a metric is hand grip strength in general, and then how much of this is like statistical and like study-based noise, if you analyze the data in a different way, if you did the study again, maybe you do find a slight signal in this direction or that direction for something like that. Ultimately, what we're looking for is one of these things that can be used, you know, ideally as a metric that can give us very confident assessments in our patient's current state of health, and gosh, it would be nice also if, like VO2 max, for example, if we trained towards it that we would feel confident that somebody's health status is improving. I think hand grip strength probably falls a bit short on that end, and I suspect we'll get more into that here in a little bit. Yeah, yeah, I tend to agree, and the way I came at this was like, well, if there's this sort of disconnect, is it a function of the test itself? It's just not actually capturing what we think it is, maybe something else, and I kind of went down a rabbit hole and found some interesting stuff, so as you predicted and as you, you know, intuited, the biggest factor affecting baseline hand grip strength is the amount of lean body mass that somebody carries, so a bigger car needs a bigger engine, in that case, we're talking about muscle cross-sectional area, and so consequently, total body, lean body mass, the cross-sectional area of the muscles, is the single strongest predictor of absolute hand grip strength, explaining more variance than age or height alone. This is presumably why it's used for sarcopenia if you're like, look, how much muscle does a person have? Squeeze. And it also happens to capture function, which is quite nice, so, you know, gold star for hand grip strength so far. Interestingly, hand grip strength is highly influenced by genetics, as is the amount of muscle mass that people carry, and there's a lot of overlap between the two. Genome-wide association studies show that roughly 50 to 60 percent of the genetic influences that affect your lean body mass also affect your hand grip strength. We're talking about genes like ACTN3, the quote, sprint gene, and those that regulate the actin-myosin bridge, those are the contractile proteins in your muscle that have to link up to produce force. Also, genes involved in neural development and subsequent rate of force production. Genes regulating insulin-like growth factor, that's IGF-1, and myostatin signaling, which are all involved in muscular hypertrophy and muscular growth. But heritability estimates for hand grip strength range between about 50 to 65 percent. This means that roughly half of the difference in grip strength between individuals is attributable to their genetic makeup rather than their training. The fact that hand grip strength is genetically mediated and correlated with lean body mass suggests that increasing hand grip strength via training creates a sort of divergence or separation in predictive power depending on how that strength is acquired. So it's highly predictive when untrained, particularly directly trained when people do a bunch of grip strength training because it does capture genetics, health status, and physical activity habits overall. It tends to be less predictive when it is trained directly, again, direct grip strength training, because that tends to obscure genetics health status and other physical activity that doesn't really train towards the test but trains the body in a systematic way. So imagine if a person was diagnosed with sarcopenia or our preferred term dyna-penia, cratopenia, and they just did grip strength training. They're like, I'm going to max out this test. I think you're missing it. So Austin, is this another case of sort of it matters how you got there? Yeah, I really like how you phrased that where training created a divergence in predictive power. That's like a nice phrase and the image that it generated in my mind is going to draw back to a legendary story in like the powerlifting world and don't know if this is accurate or not but it serves to illustrate the point. You may be able to speak to this a little bit better than I can but I recall hearing for example that like Ed Cohn is one of the most well-known powerlifters of all time.  aut autoprilaguaguagu deadlift off the bat, pretty predictive of him being a total genetic freak, very favorably set up. And sure enough, he ended up, you know, becoming the one of the best power lifters of all time. That level of performance, however, is not terribly remarkable up front. In other words, if you compared the fact that him untrained pulling 405 compared with once somebody spends a decade of their life training to achieve a 405 deadlift, there's a similar divergence in that predictive power. The person who trained towards that for a decade just to achieve that same level of performance, it's like, yeah, that doesn't tell me nearly as much. And if anything, it might tell me that you're worse off, worse off, comparatively speaking. So that's kind of the image that that description brought to mind for me. Yeah. Also, we see the same thing with like people new to resistance training. They're very hyper focused on how strong can I get in like, you know, two months, three months, four months. And they're like, I have to achieve these arbitrary benchmarks. Look, I get it. You want to get stronger. But to me, your response initially to training does not tell me how far you're going to go. It really just tells me like, do you like this or not? Yeah. Yeah. So I think maybe this brings in some nuance to hand grip strength. I'm not going to throw the baby out with the bathwater here, but perhaps a better predictor would be a sort of relative grip strength or what's your grip strength divided by your BMI or your body weight because size matters kind of like a power to weight ratio here. And there's some evidence here. So for cardiometabolic health, this may be better than absolute grip strength. As relative grip strength goes up, the risk of metabolic syndrome goes down. It is a significant predictor of hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, so elevated cholesterol levels, whereas absolute hand grip strength was not correlated in this large sample size. And I think that's because it eliminates the obesity paradox here. Individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass than their relatively lean counterparts. The idea that obesity is sort of a disease of inadequate musculature while it is repeated by some people in the space is definitively untrue, been directly investigated. That is definitively false. And so we think that people who have like a low relative grip strength, they might actually be carrying too much body fat, for example, or their muscles may be sort of dysfunctional relative to their size. They might have some fatty infiltration of that myosteotosis, for example. So the way I'm coming at this is that absolute strength kind of predicts if you might die from a cardiovascular event relative to like genetics and your other sort of habits capturing all that stuff, whereas relative grip strength might predict why you're developing the disease. It's sort of like a metabolic sort of signal. So if you only track absolute numbers, you may miss that sort of check engine light for metabolic disease. This is speculative as far as like, what should you target? What sort of grip strength? Because we have normative data on on absolute grip strength, so less data on relative grip strength. But there's a thought here based on that same data in the United States that men should be targeting a ratio greater than 0.5 and women should be targeting a ratio greater than 0.4. There's also some thoughts to using like grip power. So the rate of force production, like how quickly can you produce max force, which if you think about it would reflect, hey, look, how many type two motor units do you have still hanging around? Whereas sarcopenia is a loss of those nerves. So it'd be interesting to use that. But Austin, what do you think about using relative grip strength versus absolute hand grip strength for a clinical tool? Is this like BMI alone versus BMI plus waist circumference to you or something else? I think it's interesting. And, you know, the thought that comes to mind is that I recall years ago, our friend Greg Knuckles having a lot of pieces that he wrote at the time around the use of something called allometric scaling as a tool to kind of index strength performance for body size. And so whether this idea of relative grip strength as the absolute strength divided by BMI or by body surface area or by body weight, or I don't have strong feelings about any of those. I feel like that is much more a question for just like big data and a statistician determine, you know, if you're faced with these data and these outcomes, find us the analytical method that gives us the best predictive power. And that's a job for, you know, statistical analysis to determine which performs the best. Now, if you're going to try to translate, hey, let's use an allometrically scaled grip strength in clinical practice. It's like, nah, like there's, you would need to have a standardized, reliable way to obtain the data and then have your EMR auto calculated or something. And then it's like, what do you, what do you do with that? So I think still we come back to kind of like what you mentioned with BMI and waist circumference. It's like, yeah, great tool when it's done properly. I still have concerns about practical deployment of this in the clinical setting. And so that's why, you know, I think that some degree of like formal training for clinicians is necessary if you want to be able to use something like this, but still it's just like, what are you going to do with that information? And you want the practical like quote unquote bedside test to be pragmatic, to minimize the potential sources of error, to maximize the reliability of it, things like that. And so even though there are still caveats with a, you know, sit to stand or a timed up and go or something like that, I still prefer that over requiring somebody to carry around a handheld dynamometer and to expect them to be able to do these tests reliably in practice to get these types of data. So that then what, so that you can tell the person, yeah, you should probably exercise more. I'd like, you know what I mean? So it's, it's very interesting in, in a lot of ways, to the extent that people might be a little bit more motivated by something like this, or there might be data nerds or for like research purposes and things like that. Totally worth determining what is the best kind of indexing method of grip strength to what variable of body surface area, mass, BMI, element, any of these things. But I still, as a clinician who does this kind of stuff at the bedside, I'm like, I still don't see this happening in the real world. Yeah. You would want to test for muscular strength to identify something that no other test is able to do so and do it in a way where it is predictive before the thing you're trying to stop happens. And it's like, can, is the eyeball test just not going to work here? Most of the time, my history and my eyeball test tells me enough, but I'm also like deliberately looking for these things in patients where it's not everyone is. I imagine like a, you carry around like a digitally instrumented squeeze ball, like just in your, in your, you know, long white coat or whatever. And you're like, Hey, squeeze this thing. And it comes out and it's like either green, yellow, or red. And you're like, okay, that's like a, you know, it's just another point to like consider maybe. All right. We're going to pivot here after the commercial break to a bro science beat down. We're going to address some of the bro science stuff around hand grip strength. We return. It's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. If you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep or cook factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dietitians and crafted by chefs that you can eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management, or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet, or even a plant-based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, factor has you covered. Now when I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen and factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen, and a meal is ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home-cooked meal without the stress. If your schedule is busy like mine, I think factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with the code and qualifying auto-renewing subscription purchases. Make healthier eating easy with factor. That's factormeals.com slash BBM50off. New year, colder days. This is the moment where your winter wardrobe actually has to deliver some measurable results. Quince brings together premium materials and enduring quality so that you stay warm and you look sharp all season long. I look at clothing like a training program. I want high utility and zero waste. Usually, luxury gear has a massive markup that doesn't actually correlate to quality, at least not all of the time. But Quince cuts out the middlemen to deliver luxury materials like cashmere, wool, and Italian leather, all at a fraction of the price. Their outerwear is particularly impressive. From down jackets to wool coats, everything is made by trusted factories with rigorous ethical standards. I've been wearing some of their cashmere sweaters lately because the holiday party round, you know? Now they're soft, they're durable, and they're holding up better than brands that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them, and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresh your winter wardrobe at quince.com slash BBM for free shipping and 365-day returns. They're now in Canada, too. That's quince.com slash BBM. Free shipping and 365-day returns. quince.com slash BBM. All right, we're back. It is the time for Bro Science Beatdown. There's a lot of stuff going around about hand grip strength, and we need to push back respectfully. First off is this phenomenon that you can see when testing people's hand grip strength called neural jitter. So when you squeeze a hand grip strength dynamometer, you're not just looking for the high score, the number, you're looking for the quality of the signal. So if that signal isn't smooth, but instead it's oscillating or waxing and waning, that can be the brain trying to tell us something. Sometimes you can see this with pathology. There's a bunch of research on this in different neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's where they have this sort of non-smooth signal when they're trying to do a hand grip strength that where this occurs years before other sort of physical symptoms do, such as like gait issues or tremors. So effectively, a person would not be able to like smoothly coordinate their contractions to put together a max hand grip strength test. Also very evident post-stroke, but you would kind of expect that anyway. And just to point out that those are also problems, not with muscle mass, but also, but those are issues mostly up in the brain where, you know, Parkinson's is a complex pathology, but, you know, if you wanted to oversimplify it down to issues in that kind of central subcortical signaling and similar with Alzheimer's, there can certainly be associations with other things that can affect things more peripherally. But that's kind of primarily where those diseases quote unquote live. Yeah. Yeah. That's a, that's a good point. And there's also some thought that, you know, because that happens in these, um, medical conditions that maybe this is also like a signal that you should use in your training to predict when you're cooked, when you're redlined, when you're over fatigued, there's a thought that look, if your hand grip strength goes down by like 10% day to day, that means you're, you're cooked. You should back off training. Um, it's the, this thought to make everybody at home should have a hand grip strength dynamometer to squeeze before you go to the gym. And I'll tell you what to do. A couple of problems with that one, there's no human data on this at all. They just never, never been investigated to the equipment limitations. So to do a proper hand grip strength, you need a relatively pricey instrument. I think, uh, the Jamar, uh, digital hand grip strength dynamometer is like the kind of the gold standard here. It tests like its frequency of sampling is very high and that's why it's expensive. Whereas the thing you can buy that's like mechanical or whatever is, uh, much lower as far as its granularity. So some equipment limitation, but look, there are rich influencers out there and rich, uh, maybe grip maxers that could potentially afford this and get it. But the point is there, even if you have accurate data, what are you comparing that to? Because again, this really hasn't been investigated in humans. So Austin to you, is this like a trying to derive a training readiness score, like strain or something like that, that some of these other wearables, uh, try to try to give people to affect their training. You're trying to predict performance and like training tolerance ahead of time, but this time with an even cruder metric. Yeah. It's like this odd combination of both being crude while also being overly focused at the same time. Like I would never use a tool like this over just like an overall subjective metric of like, Hey, how you feeling? And if somebody is like, I'm not sure yet, then it's like, okay, well, why don't we get started and see how it goes? You know? So I don't see myself ever using a tool like this to preemptively make training decisions, um, because it is way too myopic and simultaneously way too crude. Yeah. The other thing is like, imagine even if it was like, maybe not as crude or whatever you were satisfied with like, all right, this kind of does tell you what you, what you want. So what the idea would be that it modifies training in such a way where it improves your sort of training related outcomes compared to just going, you know, doing what you were supposed to do and auto-regulating it based on your performance and how you feel and everything else. We see the same thing with like HRV, our rate variability and whatever. It's like, to the extent that it's tested is relatively accurate, but still doesn't seem to be better than just like, okay, we're kind of going on vibes here and trying to achieve the general, you know, goal of the workout each time and not skipping workouts. If anything, you'd use HRV and maybe this for like an extra workout, like, oh, you're feeling awesome. Maybe you should train more. I suppose. Yeah. I'd be interested if there's data out there looking at, for example, HRV, which is admittedly a bit better established in terms of telling us some, some potentially useful information, but what proportion of the time is it drastically discordant with the person's subjective self assessment? And I would say that to, you know, the greater that proportion of time is where HRV and subsequent performance end up actually being poor compared with the person saying that they felt awesome. Maybe there's some utility there, but I actually don't think that that is likely to be the case, but yeah, that's a separate topic. Yeah, I agree. All right. Continuing on our bro science beat down. The next one is extensor training. The claim is that look, you got to train finger extension to balance out the flexion, all the flexing, all the gripping, all the crushing that you're doing on the barbell, the dumbbell, the machine. So you got to train in isolation, finger extension to prevent carpal tunnel, various tendinopathies, particularly at the level of the elbow. So you got to isolate, train, isolated training of the finger extensors with like these little rubber bands. Pretty much entirely unsupported by any clinical evidence, especially in healthy populations, though it can play a role in certain rehab settings. So somebody's got a gripping issue overall from something else, whether it's fall trauma, you know, something like that can be useful. But yeah, it's kind of like relegated to the use in like the rehab world. And just FYI, the extensors are heavily active when you grip anything anyway. That's how your wrist stays stable and prevents active insufficiency. What do you think those muscles on the backside of your arm are doing? It's not like they're just hanging out waiting to do something. They're active. What do you think about extensor training, Dr. B? I've used it a bit in, as you mentioned, a rehab context. I'm still not convinced it was absolutely necessary for successful rehab, but has a bit of a role there. I agree there's like no real role for this in kind of routine training in healthy asymptomatic people, unless for whatever reason they're really geeked out on this. It kind of falls back to that general myth of muscles need to be, quote unquote, balanced, like on one side to the other, like say your quads and your hamstrings, which if they were truly one-to-one balanced, you would be horribly dysfunctional. Yeah, you walk in circles then? And not very athletic. If your hamstrings were just as strong as your quadriceps, that'd be pretty puzzling. So yeah, nonsense. Yeah, agreed. And the last part of this bro science beat down is grip maxing. Again, people are like, look, I got to get my grip strength up. I have to directly train it because I got to have a higher grip strength. And it's like, oh, you're a climber. And they're like, well, no, I just need a higher grip strength. And you're like, wait, do you have a grip strength issue with like the deadlift? Are you a strongman competitor? Are you in farmer's walks? Like whatever. Like, no, no, I just want to get a better test. Like, what do you think about that? I mean, if you want to go for it. Um, I think the idea of again, using it because of how popular it is as like a mortality predictor that as we have established at this point is kind of misguided. If somebody just wants to, for example, there are people who like to enter those like captains of crush grip competitions, which cool, go for it. Like that's, you know, if that gets you going, um, I still think you probably ought to be training the rest of your body to some extent. Um, but yeah, I wouldn't blow that out of proportion for like health benefits of directed grip training aside from general training. Yeah, that's the thing. It's like, if you're doing it just because you want a stronger grip for some sort of functional purpose or just to like impress people, you want to bend nails, you want to rip bone books, you know, arm wrestling, whatever. Sure. That seems reasonable. There's a, there's a task specific reason you're training grip strength. And that seems like you should dedicate some training resources that way. But if it's for mortality, I would do more conditioning. Yeah. Or more cooking or like more sleeping or something else. All of those things have more effects, which brings us into our next section. What do programming wise talking about hand grip strength? What do you do about it? If, uh, you know, you either feel like you're at risk of low hand grip strength, you have low hand grip strength, your client does something like that. We've established that the grip is kind of like a thermometer measuring the temperature of the room and, but to fix the temperature in the room, the body, we got to look at the heater. That's the whole system. So we have to do some systemic training. Um, there's some good evidence here that if a person has a sort of low grip strength and they do indirect resistance training, um, this is particularly true in individuals with sarcopenia that their hand grip strength improves, which is exactly what you would expect. It prevents further loss of type two motor neurons. So kind of stops sarcopenia cold in its tracks. If somebody does resistance training again for the whole body, not just for the grip, it also improves their function, generally speaking, and you see a modest improvement in hand grip strength. Um, so that's kind of sort of like the cohort or group of people that have a active pathology. What about for healthy individuals who have a normal grip strength? What happens to their grip strength when they do resistance training? That's not focused just on specific grip training. The results are pretty mixed. Some studies show a modest improvement in grip strength. Other studies show no improvement in hand grip strength, but they all come back to the same sort of, uh, caveat here. The said principle, the specificity of adaptation to impose demand, which is a fancy way of saying, look, how you train is going to determine the types of adaptations that you get. If you do not directly train your grip, we would not expect or predict your grip strength to improve. It might do so just as by nature of the exercise that you're doing. For example, if you deadlift and your deadlift's gone up, you know, 400 pounds over the course of your training career, I can tell you that your hand grip strength has improved, particularly in the context of a deadlift. Same thing with farmers, farmers, walks, farmers, carries, so on and so forth. Chin up strength. If you were a climber and you climb more and stuff like that, the point is that you're not going to get as much of an improvement in grip strength compared to if you trained it directly, which goes back to the point we just said, why, why are you training it directly? If you just want to carry on, but I don't think it has a effect on sort of, you know, health trajectory or otherwise predicting how you're going to do. It kind of increases the divergence of the predictive power for the hand grip strength. So that's training. I think we would both agree and you can just confirm or deny. Most people, if you're concerned with strength, generally speaking, probably don't isolate it to grip strength training, probably just train the whole body. That would be the... Totally. Not unless that's a very specific targeted goal that gets you excited, but otherwise not necessary for the vast majority. Yeah. And even if it does get you excited, please, please, please train the rest of your body. Yeah. Please, please, please. Don't think that needs to be said, but yeah. Yeah. And then the last part here is straps because people will say, look, if you're trying to get stronger and, you know, we know the hand grip strength is so important, can't use straps. Straps will eliminate all of the benefits you're going to get from resistance training. And it's like, how does that work? Like the grip is still working thing one. Like it's not like you can just take your hands off the bar and just let the straps do the work. I suspect if you had hooks, you could potentially do that. But then, but then the, you would have to figure out a way by which loading the body in a systemic way confers no adaptations from exercise. Yeah. Outside of competitors, I actually encourage people to use straps all the time because it just doesn't matter that much. And if their grip is limiting how much load they can lift more generally, I would rather them, you know, be able to provide a more, you know, uh, stronger stimulus overall with loading that is not limited by say the intrinsic muscles of the hand, uh, for example. So unless you have competitive, any clinical evidence, any clinical evidence. Yeah, that's my thing. It's like if anything, you, the use of straps is going to increase the training load, which we suspect is going to increase fitness related adaptations and subsequent health related adaptations. But yeah, if you have a specific task that you need to be able to perform without straps, you got a powerlifting meet coming up, you're a climber or whatever, you're going to need to specifically develop that adaptation with at least some training without straps, but doing all of your training without straps, just because you're like, I'm going to get more hand grip strength out of this. It's like, I think you're missing the forest for the trees because you have to actually have to be strong first for this to matter. Yeah. So Austin, if a trainee sees their grip strength falling into that sort of medical red zone, so less than 26 kilos for men, less than 16 kilos for women, those are the sarcopenia cutoffs, what should their primary clinical priority be? Do they need to go see a hand specialist or is it a broader metabolic and neurological workup or is it just, hey, you need to lift some weights? What do? Well, if they're already a trainee, I think this is an exceedingly unlikely scenario because honestly, those grip strength cutoffs for medical risk are very low in terms of your actual strength. So most people who are actually trainees who are doing some form of regular exercise, I don't think are terribly likely to see this happen. Now, if despite training, it's falling into a medical red zone, yeah, I have some medical questions and concerns, be it about their metabolic or even some neurological type concerns, especially if it's asymmetric, if it's one side that is limited versus if it is more symmetric. Now, more often the type of sarcopenia, dinapenia types of concerns are going to be in people who are definitively not training, have never trained, don't train, and who maybe have already accumulated some degree of medical comorbidities and things like that. In which case, yeah, we need to attack those things through directed medical intervention to the extent that is appropriate for them, as well as just generalized training. And the generalized training will look like the training that we have been talking about for years here, generally guideline concordant at a minimum to include strength and cardiorespiratory training. And then the more they're willing and able to do kind of the better from there. So, yep, I think that a competent clinical evaluation would be useful here to differentiate because there are certainly some, you know, like red flag type features that I would identify of, hey, I have like grip weakness on one side that is dropping things and stuff like that that would get most people's attention. But that's treated and viewed very differently compared to a more generalized. And then it is it is it happening despite people's best efforts to, you know, exercise or is it happening in somebody who's never been an exerciser and just the gradual progressive condition in the context of like overall poor health and things like that. So those would be the big things I would think about. Everybody should be training regardless, though. Is there a peptide that you recommend for a low hand grip strength or? Generally not. Not at this time. All right. So we've covered the mechanics, the diagnostics and the exercise programming. So let's bring this home or land the plane with the final verdict on how to use this information. Your grip strength is one of the most sophisticated readouts of your biological age and systemic integrity. But you have to remember the hierarchy. First, the absolute number is just a number. And you can think of this as your survival floor. If someone is below that 26 kilogram mark for men or 16 kilogram mark for women, that is a red flag that is consistent with sarcopenia and increased risk of disease. But you didn't need a hand grip strength dynamometer to tell you that. Second, your relative grip strength might actually be more of like a metabolic ceiling. Being strong for your size is a proxy for muscle quality and as recent data suggests, perhaps cardiometabolic health. More research is needed here, but it's certainly interesting. Third, direct grip training is probably not beneficial for health compared to indirect training, training the whole system or the whole body. We need to strengthen everything and not pander to the test. The grip will follow. All right. That's it for this podcast on Barbell Medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Remember everyone here at Barbell Medicine. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: Episode #386： Longevity Myths- Biological Clocks, GLP-1 Muscle Loss, and What Actually Predicts L... [XjisaRuZKqM].txt ===

 and alfalfa. The business of living forever has become $100 billion a year industry. We're currently seeing a flood of longevity startups selling the promise of a turnback clock, marketing DNA methylation tests, and high-tech cancer screens as the ultimate insurance policy for your future. But for many, these expensive metrics are a poor proxy for the actual physiology that dictates how you age. A molecular clock is silent on the loss of motor units and the creeping anabolic resistance that eventually makes the difference between an independent life and a nursing home. Similarly, the new wave of multi-cancer early detection tests promises a one-and-done solution to oncology. Yet, when you look at the actual clinical utility, these screens frequently miss the very early stage pathologies that we are most equipped to treat, while the pulse alarms leave healthy patients trapped in a diagnostic loop. Optimization isn't found in a descriptive score or an expensive gadget. It requires a prescriptive, treat-to-target strategy that hits hard clinical benchmarks for cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular power, all while navigating the complex reality of GLP-1s, hormone replacement therapy, and behavioral interventions that really do optimize health. In this episode, we're moving past the marketing to establish a concrete evidence-based framework for longevity as it sits today. And to help us dissect the latest in longevity, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing all right. And I believe you've pointed this out before, but I appreciate your pronunciation of dissect instead of dissect. I just, you know, I still have PTSD from when I was getting my masters in anatomy. I just, it was a bad day. I mean, any day, really, a bad day at that point. All right. Well, look, we got a lot to get into today. So let's start out with the biological age, probably one of your favorite tests, if I had to guess. It was one of your favorite medical metrics. So we've all seen the 60-year-old who is healthy, super active and outlifts people half their age, I aspire to be that person. But we've also seen the 40-year-old who seems to be falling apart. Chronological age is getting a lot of hate as a blunt instrument that fails to account for how fast your internal machinery is actually wearing out. And Skaap has created a massive market for new metric, biological age, and there's a test for it. Austin, now, when you're looking at a patient, do you take note of how they actually appear compared to their age on their chart? And if so, how do you interpret that? Yeah, I think it's something that a lot of people intuitively notice just in society, right? Or looking at celebrities, for example, like during the amusingly during the recent Super Bowl halftime show, I think people were surprised to see what Ricky Martin looked like when he came out on stage. So it's kind of like this common intuitive thing that people observe of how do people look compared with what I might expect for someone in that demographic. In the medical setting, it can often be even more striking. And it is immediately, you know, I do what's called the eyeball test when I walk into a hospital room or an ER room. And sometimes, you know, I will already have some background demographic information on the person. And I know might know that they are 40 or 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 or, you know, upwards of whoever the oldest patient I ever had was well into their hundreds. And that immediate person that you are faced with, whether they're it is concordant with my expectations or discordant with my expectations. And then the more discordant with my expectations, it almost now subconsciously informs how do I feel about this person's like, we're level of risk, how likely are they to have a good outcome, a bad outcome. When I see somebody who's in their 30s and four or 40s or 50s who looks decades older, whether from smoking or sometimes, unfortunately, alcohol use or or even other, you know, medical comorbidities, certain types of, you know, cancers and auto immune conditions that have ravaged their body in various degrees. That makes me feel not as optimistic for them in many situations. And then certainly at the other end of the spectrum, if I'm seeing a 60 or 70 or 80 year old who looks half their age, then I feel much more optimistic that I'm likely to be able to get them through whatever they're going through, or they may not need not need even need to be admitted to the hospital at all. So pretty informative. And I think there's data on this, in terms of like physicians intuitions around this, as well as like, if you just ask a doctor, like, would you be shocked if this person died in the next year? And if they say, no, I wouldn't be shocked, it's like that person's risk is like markedly higher. So even though we can't predict timelines with great, you know, accuracy, that gut sense that we accumulate over time actually is like, we're reasonable heuristic here. Yeah, yeah, it's kind of like a vibe check. But yeah, just takes into account a lot of factors that you could probably articulate like you just did. And then other things that are just more subconscious and you're kind of confabulating a reason you're like, I don't know, man, I just look at this person, I think this, yeah, which brings us to kind of this test of your biological clock, right? We all know that the chronological age is basically just a kind of birthdays. And so this biological clock is supposed to be different in that it accounts for what's going on inside or under the hood. Now really, what they're doing is measuring what's known as DNA methylation. You can think of your DNA as a massive library of instructions. And as you age, your body adds these small kind of chemical tags that we call methyl groups, they put them on specific locations around the DNA. Now these tags don't actually change your genetic code, but they act as like a post-it note telling the cell whether to read a certain page or to skip it. These are necessary for normal development and improper methylation is linked to diseases such as cancer and forms of neurodegenerative disease. These tags change throughout life in response to environmental factors, diet, lifestyle, etc. and can make them a key marker of quote, biological aging. Now researchers can look for specific DNA methylation footprints that are highly correlated with the variables that they're looking for. So things like age, straight up just chronological age, but also things like high blood pressure, VO2 max, all sorts of stuff. And then they basically build an algorithm around it using some machine learning. There are multiple generations of these biological tests. So the first one, the first generation basically thought straight up chronology. It's an algorithm built from the DNA of known ages. So like, I think it's 20 to 100. So you can think of this as like an odometer. There's like a Horvath biological age. I think there's a Hanum biological age that would be these first generation ones. Again, it's all DNA methylation, but it's mostly based on just how old are these genes basically. The second generation, this is an algorithm that's built on mortality data related to DNA markers of various plasma proteins like creatinine, for example. You can think of this as like a check engine light, risk of death. So grim age, which great name, by the way, for the second generation biological clocks. But again, still DNA methylation, just different sites, different footprints and the data that they fed into the machine learning is based on mortality data, not just age. And then there's a third generation, still DNA methylation, but now for specific physiological variables like VO2 max, blood pressure, etc. And this is instead of it being just your chronological age or your risk of death, it's more of like the pace of aging, like a speedometer, if you will. And the most famous one is out of this New Zealand cohort from a city called Dundun. So there's decent data here, both on the second generation and the third generation ones. So the second generation clocks like the grim age have demonstrated a legit ability to predict time to death and chronic disease onset more accurately than a birth certificate. The third generation, once the Dundun pace, for example, showed that people aging faster had greater declines in physical and cognitive function years before the disease appeared, making it a potential sort of early warning system. The second gen is probably still the best for predicting risk of disease and death. However, there's more data here and specifically data that's been adjusted for factors like smoking, BMI and existing chronic diseases. And so for every five year increase in this grim age score, the risk of all cause death increased by 44%, the risk of cardiovascular death increased by 33%, and the risk of non-cardiovascular death, so things like cancer, respiratory disease increased by 54%. But for many, this single composite score, this biological age could act as like a psychological lever for behavior change in a way that looking at a dozen separate lab values cannot. But from a clinical perspective, does a grim age score actually tell you anything that a standard blood pressure cuff or a lab for Apolypoprotein B doesn't already show you? Well, I mean, I would have to admit that grim age, these scores are not something that have been widely adopted into regular clinical practice. This isn't something that my EMR automatically displays for me in practice. So this isn't actually a metric that is in regular clinical use. However, I would see a scenario where these things could tell you things that a standard blood pressure wouldn't in fact tell you. And part of that is that they are incorporating a whole bunch of different data points and using that as you said, this kind of like background data almost like an actuary has put all this stuff together based on the machine learning aspect, compared with either an isolated data point like a blood pressure measurement, which as we've talked about is deeply flawed because it is a single snapshot of your blood pressure right now, or an ApoB measurement, for example, is a single snapshot measurement right now. And it is only really pertinent to one kind of a health-related outcome that we care about, not entirely, but we'll make that oversimplification. And so as from the clinician side, your job, at least prior to the use of these types of tools would be, you have to be that integrator. You have to have the background knowledge. You have to be able to do some sort of like either vibes-based or if you actually did mathematically, appropriately weighting each of these individual variables. That's a lot of hard work and it requires a lot of experience to be able to do if you're just going to go based on your gut sense. Right? A lot of very experienced clinicians, like I described, where I can go into a hospital room and I can kind of give you my spidey sense of like, how sick is this person? How likely are they to die? That's not something that you come out of medical school knowing how to do. Nor would I expect any regular clinician graduating from their whatever schooling that they have gone through. You could even give them an array of these data points and you could say, give me a probability of this disease or death in this person. I bet they would be abysmal at it. And so to the extent that we might have tools that are being developed like this based on data of, sorry, population-level data that is reflective of the population that you're looking at in front of you, like in the clinic room or in the hospital room, I could totally see a scenario where these tools are more useful than just the individual data points in isolation. The individual data points are going to be most useful for making individual patient-level clinical decisions day to day, whereas these kind of integrated cumulative scores can give you that overall vibes-based assessment of the patient. Yeah. Yeah, I think what you're getting at is that this is like, enriches your previous data set. Like, if you know somebody's blood pressure, their cholesterol panel, all these sorts of things, their recent clinical history or whatever, and then you have this in addition to it, it's giving you enriched data, right? Compared to just having this and being like, so what do, Doc? And you're like, don't know. I can't treat that integrated number. I can treat the sub-data points, but how aggressively should I treat them? Maybe that data, the integration informs my pre-test probability of how likely are you to die and how aggressive should I be in your situation. Yeah. No, you stole my thunder because I think when it comes to a use case here, you start thinking about like, yeah, how would somebody use this? And it would be like in an indeterminate range or for example, somebody who looks really, really healthy on paper with what you've tested so far and then they randomly got this or decided to get this and then it was discordant and you're like, hmm, interesting. So perhaps you would go, work that out further, but we'll get to that in a second. I think the biggest thing to clarify here, though, is that there's this massive difference between a descriptive metric like this and a prescriptive one. So these clocks can tell you like that you're aging, but they don't really tell you why or how to fix it. There's no threshold. If your score is X on this clock, do Y and monitor Z, for example. And you compare that to the prevent cardiovascular disease risk calculator and you know the variables that go in there and you know, okay, if we modify these, here's the predicted outcome and here's how to modify these specifically. So the other part here is that when you kind of dive a little deeper into the models being used to train these biological clocks in the validation studies, they show that traditional clinical markers, something like a systolic blood pressure, that's the top number, accounts for up to two-thirds of the variance in these age models, which is not unexpected, but it's just also like, yeah, the basics still matter here. And I think my biggest takeaway is that if you find that your biological age is elevated, it's more of like a lagging indicator. Like it's not like a maybe prospective sort of thing really. So like the blood pressure has been elevated for a while or you've had poor cardiovascular fitness or your Apolypropyrotine B has been high. Yeah, that's already been happening in the background and this kind of is a confirmatory test rather than like, you're at risk for developing these things so much. And also they still haven't incorporated any sort of functional stuff like EO2 max is included in the Dundun pace one, but there's not like anything for sarcopenia just yet, which would be maybe more interesting because again, our current like screening tests for sarcopenia mostly identify people who have it already and you're like, we wish we could have caught this earlier when it was maybe easier to intervene. So yeah, I think the major issues we have, you know, clear guidelines for like existing clinical markers, mostly speaking, you know, things like LDL, things like Apolypropyrotine B blood pressure, blood sugar, whatever, don't really have that here. So that's like issue number one. Issue number two is like the retest reliability. You could do the same biological age sort of test in the same week and get massively different results, which is also problematic. So yeah, maybe more of like a risk enhancer for somebody who already has all of their traditional risk factors known and accounted for. They're still curious and they got some money. These are like $200 to $500 tests, generally speaking. And so if you check all those boxes and you're like, yeah, I'm more curious, this could be useful. And I think ultimately what that would result in is potentially a motivation like a lever for behavior change and then from a medical standpoint, like further work up, you know, if you see somebody who's got, again, most of the traditional risk factors have already been tested for identified or whatever and you're like, only your risk for heart disease as it turns out, maybe we do go down the road of advanced imaging or something like that or additional testing or even like empirically start some things that would theoretically lower your risk. I don't know. Is that how you think about this? Yeah, I think it's an interesting area. I would have to play around with it to see like when faced with these data, do I feel or notice or observe myself doing anything differently? And so that's kind of where I would like to go. I'm open to it, but you're right. I think that this falls more still in the realm of like, quote, unquote, the optimizers, the health maxers as you described them, compared with those who are kind of going through a more traditional route. And so the impact would kind of remain to be seen because there's even debates, for example, of like, if you look at non HDL cholesterol as your traditional marker, how much more does APO be really at on top of a non HDL? And it's like, it's a modest amount. It's non zero, but it is admittedly a modest amount. And you can probably get most of the risk information that you want out of a non HDL cholesterol outside of some certain edge situations. And so this might be a similar situation where if you integrate or you're addressing all of your traditional risk factors, how much more do these biological age kind of metrics add maybe a modest amount and different people will put different values on that. And some people might be worth it to them, other people not so. Yeah, I just imagined somebody coming to you and saying, look, my grim age score is X. And you're like, great, what's your blood pressure? And I'm like, I don't know, man. Yeah, hope not. Yeah. All right. So ultimately, I think we can summarize that biological age is a high tech way of summarizing the effects of your environment and habits on your physiology. But it's probably much more productive to focus on the variables we know how to measure and manage for health, starting with your blood pressure, cholesterol, and maybe even your deadlift. But what happens when things start to go wrong, despite our best efforts? So we're going to enter the controversial world of early detection tests for cancer, and whether screens like gallery or hymns, they're recently offering are actually worth the investment for the average adult. So we've talked at length about the limitations of the current medical system, you know, it's reactive rather than proactive. And nowhere is this more apparent than in oncology, where we wait for a palpable lump or a change in bowel habits to go look for trouble. By then the horse is often out of the barn. But now there are advancements in these multi cancer early detection tests and their commercial interests to flip the script. The question is whether or not the technology has caught up to the marketing, or if we're just creating a new generation of the worried well through over diagnosis and over testing. Austin, have you ever gotten a patient who's done one of these tests and been referred to you? I have had patients who have done this type of testing. I don't I'm not can't say for sure whether they've used these specific ones, nor what I want to name them in particular. But yes, I've had certainly had patients who were into this kind of total full body like MRI scans and other forms of supposedly early cancer detection tests. It's been it's often a sign of a challenging conversation that is to come with. Yeah, harbinger sort of speed, you're like, Hey, I got this done. What do we do about it? And you're like, Yeah, okay. Yeah. So there's some look this these could be good. The traditional screening model is siloed. You know, we got a test for the breast, a test for the colon, a test for the prostate. If you got a lethal cancer somewhere else, like the pancreas liver ovaries, you're essentially flying blind until symptoms show up. So these early detection tests for multiple different cancers, specifically the gallery test that's now available through their HIMS partnership, use a single blood draw to look for cell free DNA methylation patterns back to the DNA methylation again, again, it's like a molecular fingerprint that the cancer cells leak into the bloodstream. The appeal is that it's a one and done approach instead of five different appointments and invasive procedures, potentially you get a single report covering dozens of different cancer types. And so if you're a high risk patient, the idea of finding it early is this powerful psychological and clinical tool for you. If you can catch a stage one pancreatic tumor, the five year survival rate changes from a death sentence to a manageable often curable surgical case. So it does sound like a total game changer, but medicine is littered with ideas that had flawless mechanistic logic but failed to improve actual human life, specifically lifespan. Austin, you spent a ton of time looking at debating, discussing screening tests, especially at the level of the population. Where is this like find it early logic led us to a dead end before? Yeah, lots of places. And I wouldn't say that I'm like an absolute rigid thinker around screening. I think that there are reasonable basic principles that should be kind of respected when it comes to selecting a reasonable screening test. And we've talked about these on prior podcasts a bunch. Ideally, it should be a prevalent health problem. It should be something that actually has a accurate and reliable and cost effective test for it. And it should be something that has an asymptomatic latent phase, meaning a period of time when there are no symptoms that would lead to diagnostic testing, during which period you could catch it. And there should be a treatment available that when offered earlier compared with later substantially improves the trajectory of that disease or the person's morbidity and mortality. If all of those criteria are met, you can make a reasonable case for screening for a lot of things. Now, there are many medical conditions out there that will fail one or more of these things. It might be an ultra ultra rare disease that it's not worth screening the whole population for. It might be a condition that actually doesn't have a long asymptomatic latent phase, but rather it will manifest abruptly all of a sudden. It doesn't make sense to screen people for stroke because that is an acute condition, for example, even though there might be other things that you could screen that would increase the risk of it in advance. There are conditions that for which there is no effective treatment, which raises questions about, well, what do we do if we screen and you screen positive for that type of condition. And each of the other criteria has examples. There are also different types of diseases. I remember, I think it was a text by Gilbert Welch called Overdiagnosed that I read years ago. And in it, I don't know if it was his metaphor, if he had borrowed it from someone else, but they described a few different types of diseases. Basically, if you imagine throwing the barn door open and there's like an eagle that like flies out of the barn super quickly, that's like a super rapid, fast, aggressive disease that's going to kill you no matter what. So if you catch it, unfortunately, it's already too late. And those are not useful to screen for. On the other hand, there's the snails that are moving so slow that whether you catch it early or later, it doesn't matter because it's such a slow, indolent disease that you are more likely to die of something else before this disease ever gets you. And then there's the medium speed ones. I don't know what animal you want to choose to demonstrate that type of disease process that proceeds at a pace where you actually have an opportunity to catch it early and substantially modify the trajectory. Those are the ones that are worth screening for. And so that's another way lens through which to view this. And then lastly, what I will mention is that even for a given disease that might meet all these criteria, the value of screening for it might diminish or change over time as treatment improves. So the better and better we get at treating a condition, the less and less value you will see from screening in terms of preventing, say, premature death or disease or complications. This isn't to dismiss because some people might say, oh, so you'd rather just people get the disease and have to treat it compared to preventing it. It's like, well, no, that's not what I would prefer. But if you were looking at screening tests through the lens of like, does this prevent people from dying, the better we get at treating things, the less beneficial you are going to see those screening tests appear, right? A good example of this, maybe a little out of ordinary, is like, how good we have gotten at treating what's called acute coronary syndromes or like heart attacks. We are much, much better at treating the acute heart attacks. And so now people are dying way less often of those. And they live with chronic heart disease for much, much longer. Other examples of conditions where screening has kind of led us astray is, you know, serologic or blood-based tests for ovarian cancer, certain tumor markers, others that have been controversial over the years. And I've even gone back and forth on this a little bit, depending on the state of technology is prostate cancer screening. Lung cancer screening is very tricky and many others. So this is a complex world for those who are either maybe new to our podcast and our audience. We have had several topics where we have covered screening in the past and would direct you to some of that prior content. And then if you are interested in more, then let us know. I'm happy to ramble about this all the time. It's an interesting field. Yeah. Yeah, you raised some interesting questions. So we need to look at, well, are these tests good enough? We need to look at the diagnostic yield. And let's start with the Pathfinder study. It's a landmark study in the space. It basically showed the limitations of these multi-cancer early detection tests. In a group of over 6,600 people, the test signaled cancer in 92 individuals, but only 35 of those were actually confirmed to have cancer. Now, that gives us a positive predictive value of only 38%. Now, the specificity of the test is marketed as an incredible 99.6%. And a high specificity test means that if you don't have cancer, the test is almost certainly going to return a negative result. But if you do have cancer, it should be positive. It's basically designed to minimize false alarms in healthy people. However, the clinical utility is limited by the sensitivity, which is the test's ability to actually find the cancer when it's present. At stage one, the sensitivity is only 16.8%. That means that for every 100 people with early stage cancer, the test misses 83 of them. Now, by the time you reach stage four, the sensitivity jumps to over 90%, which creates a fundamental paradox in screening. The test is most accurate when the cancer is already advanced and treatment options are limited, but it's least effective at stage one, where medical intervention could theoretically have the highest impact. And then we also have to address the false positive burden. Now, this is something you've talked about with screening tests just generally speaking, but in this particular study, 60% of the positive signals were also like false alarms. And for those patients, that means some sort of like diagnostic odyssey of PET scans, CT scans, and perhaps invasive biopsies for cancers they don't actually have. And then on top of that, there's some racial disparities here because the models are generally trained on white people. And while sensitivity appears similar in other populations, the sample sizes in those cohorts were pretty small. So we need to make sure that these tools don't exacerbate the existing access gap in screening due to the large price tag. These things run from like $700 to $1,000. So we have a test that appears statistically like pretty good, but pretty noisy on some other cases. And when you layer in the fact that the sensitivity for the very early stage one cancers that we actually want to find out, the detection rate is pretty low, the value proposition starts to look bit shaky. Now, Austin, you've been pretty vocal about the harms of over-screening, kind of alluded to that earlier. When you see these numbers, especially like that relatively high false positive rate, what is your primary concern for the patient sitting across from you might be wanting a test like this? Yeah, I think it's a matter of managing expectations. And again, this kind of dichotomy that we have of people who are like maximizers who, you know, some people say like, look, I'm an adult, I can handle a false positive and I'm willing to deal with all the complications. And I'm like, okay, I mean, I still think we ought to have a conversation about this because there's, you know, some pretty catastrophic potential there, their edge, they're rare, for sure. But it reminds me of a case study or a paper that was published in JAMA many years ago called the $50,000 physical for anyone who's in healthcare who's interested. Really interesting story about how kind of a simple in clinic kind of even guideline based screening sort of thing led to some pretty catastrophic kind of downstream complications, despite everyone having the best of intentions towards their patient. And so, you know, there are certainly those negative outcomes. And then there's of course, the very also similarly compelling stories of people who say, well, I got this test and it found this cancer and it saved my life. It's like, well, there's some logical leaps there. I won't like push back, you know, challenge that too hard to your face, at least, but in my mind, I still wonder, well, we caught a cancer, was it the bird that flew out of the barn that was, you know, or was it this snail that was never going to kill you in a matter of what, or was it the animal that we now have a opportunity to treat and actually meaningfully impact, you're like, we kind of don't know, we don't have that kind of counterfactual to speak of here. So the idea that we have a test being promoted for screening with very, with, you know, relatively poor sensitivity, that is a problem for me because I would prefer a good screening test to have really good sensitivity to tell me that if it's negative, I'm done. I don't need to proceed further. And if it is going to catch something, I would prefer it to actually have pretty good utility for that in the earlier stages when I have the opportunity to intervene. It is not going to be as useful to diagnose a late stage thing when I already have other methods to diagnose the late stage things like a biopsy for cancer that will tell me what this cancer is. And when it's at its late stage, and then that can inform my prognostic discussion. So it's almost like the use case for this remains in question for me compared with what we're actually looking for in practice. Yeah, no, that's well said. And I think this is going to become even more important because about two weeks ago, Grail, which is a company, submitted its final module for FDA pre-market approval for their multi-cancer diagnostic called Gallery. And they teamed up with HIMS for this. Now, there is an ongoing NHS Gallery trial with over 140,000 participants in it. It's the only study that's been designed to show if these tests actually reduce late stage cancer incidents and mortality at the population level, but the results aren't there yet. So until we see that data, we're basically looking at a surrogate marker, maybe cancer detection, not necessarily a survival benefit, even if it does that well. We've got to be wary of the trap where we find the cancer earlier, but don't actually extend the patient's life. They just get a longer time of being a cancer patient, which obviously, again, managing expectations for somebody says they can handle it. That can be a challenging discussion. Totally, yeah. For sure. It would be nice if we held these things to very legitimate screening test standards and said, hey, show me that this actually improves real outcomes. Yeah. Yeah. So as far as the use case here, I'm thinking about, again, we go back to the first thing we talked about, the biological clock. You got all the traditional risk factors that are known and accounted for, still curious or worried, perhaps of either a personal family history of particular cancer or something like that, and you have adequate resources financially and psychologically to potentially manage this. I guess I could see a use case for this, especially someone's maybe over the age of 50, for example, and again, has that family history. The price point is pretty significant, but I would want to emphasize it's not really a swap. You don't like take existing cancer screens that we have and just, you don't need to do that. You got this blood test, for example. It's more of an add-on. There are many other types of cancer screening tests that are relatively good evidence for that you commonly hear about. So cervical cancer screening, colorectal cancer screening would still want to do those in addition, so it's not really a swap. And Austin has some maybe interesting bones to pick with the USPSTF guidelines, especially around breast cancer screening. We'll save that for a separate podcast, but does that seem like a reasonable use case for this, if you were thinking about it? Yeah, I would, as with many other things, I'm not terribly rigid in these decisions for patients who are very motivated.  and have the resources to pursue them as long as I feel like they've been sufficiently informed and are aware of what they're getting themselves into. I try not to be overly paternalistic about these things, but rather to walk with the person through whatever their health journey holds and try to be a useful advisor to them rather than somebody who's dictating to them what they can and can't do. Yeah, well said. So yeah, early detection can be a double-edged sword. It offers the promise of a cure, but also the risk of maybe unnecessary intervention and workup. As we refine these techniques, the goal remains the same. Adding years to your life and life to your years, not just more time at the doctor's office, even though we're generally happy to see you. Speaking of adding years, we're going to shift from the lab to the gym. We come back from the break. We're discussing how to lift for your life the science of exercise and longevity. Between moving into a new house, managing the business, and keeping up with my own training, my schedule is pretty much a disaster right now. For me, I realized that cooking healthy meals just wasn't going to happen when I found myself finishing a long day and realizing I still had an hour of prep and cleanup ahead of me. Look, you want to eat better, and when you have zero time and energy, Factor solves the problem. Two minutes, real food, and you're done. It's not that you're failing at healthy eating, you're just failing at having extra hours in the day. Factor makes it super easy. All of their meals are made by chefs and designed by dietitians, and then they're delivered right to your door. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats with no added sugars. I've been leaning on the Muscle Pro collection as it fits my needs as someone doing a lot of training. I also have high protein options, vegetarian options, and a ton of other different dietary patterns too. Anyway, slice it, all of their meals are fresh, never frozen, and the food is ready in minutes. It's super easy to stay on track. Factor. Head over to factormeals.com slash bbm50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for an entire year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with code and qualifying auto renewing subscription purchase. Make healthier eating easier with Factor. This podcast is brought to you by Biggs. At Barbell Medicine, we spend a lot of time talking about what it takes to build a body that can handle high level performance, but the recovery in health side is just as critical. Over the last six years, an incredible team of health care professionals did something that most people thought was impossible. They helped rebuild the body of legendary Olympian Lindsey Vaughn after a series of devastating injuries. And now she's actually headed back to the 2026 Winter Games in Milan and she's ready to break records once again. This February, Lindsey's team and the entire USA medical team will be wearing figs and you can rock their official uniform too. The new Team USA collection from figs is engineered with FiberX. It's their most durable fabric yet. It really is setting a new gold standard for a high level performance scrubwear because it's lightweight, it's breathable, and it's ultra resilient for those long shifts. And of course, the style comes in red, white, and blue. Now if you want the gear that the medical team behind the world's best athletes are wearing, check out the limited edition Team USA collection. You get 15% off your first order at wearfigs.com with code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com code FIGSRX. We talk a lot about efficiency and high yield results in training and your wardrobe should follow the same logic. A well-built wardrobe is about pieces that work together and hold up over time and that's what Quince does best. Premium materials, thoughtful design, and everyday staples that feel easy to wear and easy to rely on, even as the weather changes. Quince has everyday essentials I love with quality that lasts. From organic cotton sweaters and polos for every occasion to lighter jackets for the changing seasons. The secret is that they work directly with top factories and cut out the middlemen so you're not paying for a massive brand markup. You're just getting quality clothing and everything is built to hold up to daily wear and still look good season after season. Plus, they only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. We've recently had some cooler weather in Southern California so I've been rotating through a few of their cashmere sweaters and their jackets if I'm going somewhere else besides the gym. They look great and they've been holding up way better than others I've bought that cost way more so for me it's a no-brainer. Refresher wardrobe with Quince. Go to quince.com slash bbm for free shipping on your order and 365 day returns. Now available in Canada too, that's quince.com slash bbm. Free shipping and 365 day returns. Quince.com slash bbm. Alright, many people discuss exercise as if it's a single generic pill. Just be more active, they say. But the reality is that exercise is a complex prescription with highly specific ingredients. For example, how much and what type of exercise is best for longevity and how much doesn't matter that the person responds to the exercise by getting fitter. If we can identify specific benchmarks, exactly how much you need to lift or how fast you need to move, we can transition from vague advice to actionable targets that effectively lower your risk of dying early. Now Austin, we've got so much evidence on medications when it comes to dosing, monitoring and expected benefits. We know that if we lower blood pressure by 5 millimeters of mercury, we reduce the risk of major cardiac events like heart attacks by about 10%. Why do you think we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise? I will gently push back and say I don't know that it is the case that we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise. There is a pretty abundant base of literature around kind of correlational data of dose response and things like that between exercise volume and some data sets, exercise intensity and other data sets, some of which we've actually talked about recently on the podcast where these things on a sufficiently broad population level, oftentimes using self-reported data for all the problems that come with that. It's unsurprising that those who do much more and who are able to do more intense generally have better outcomes. How much of that is causal from them doing more and doing it more intensely leading to better outcomes? How much of it is healthier people can also do those things? Kind of like the data around depression. There's a lot of people who bandied about these papers saying that exercise clearly cures depression. It's like, well, how much of it is that extremely depressed people have a hard time doing exercise? There's probably some blend. I would be totally unsurprised to learn that there's some element of causation there, but also some element of kind of correlational, almost accidental association or reverse causation as well. I think we have some data on this relating to this dose response phenomenon between volume and intensity and frequency and certain health metrics. I think we would both prefer that it be a little bit more granular in nature and maybe even correlated not just between the dose of exercise and the outcome, but maybe like what are the specific mediating factors between that dosage of exercise and that outcome? What is the thing that mediates it? Does it necessitate a certain degree of adaptation? In which case, what is the minimum adaptive unit that you need? How much of an increase in VO2 max will cause a given health benefit? Because even then we have correlational data between VO2 max and health outcomes, right? But how much of that is causal or how much of it is just like simultaneous? You're adapting in one area and getting health benefits in another. That kind of mediating analysis would be super interesting for like the exercise physiology like nerds and medical clinicians here. A lot of people don't need that level of granularity, but that would be kind of an additional level that would be interesting to have. Yeah, I just think of like a tiered approach like you'd want more physicians, more healthcare providers to just more people generally speaking, not only to be recommending exercise, but doing the correct behavior change counseling to manifest that, right? So that's like on the floor, got to do that. Thing two would be, okay, ensuring that people are being adherent and doing those things, right? So now, yeah, that's the second part. Third part is, are they actually getting fitter, right? So if we think or find that actual improvements in fitness as measured by VO2 max, various strength metrics or whatever, are need to happen in order to improve somebody's health, then we should be monitoring them and have like certain benchmarks. That assumes that's true. So let's dive in here. We know that going from zero exercise to some exercise is probably the most useful transition point, the largest bang for the buck, if you will. So you go from no exercise to doing half the current guidelines, you're going to get the majority of your health related benefits from that transition compared to going from, all right, I'm doing half the current guidelines amount of exercise to double. Like it's just, yeah, going from zero to something tends to be a bigger bang for your buck. And if you hit the physical activity guidelines, that's light years better. Your resistance training twice a week, you're doing 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic training on most days. And the current physical activity guidelines do kind of list out like how often you should do it, the general intensity that it should be done at and things of that nature. But it's incomplete. It's incomplete to me because it has no monitoring and recommendations for dosing adjustments to achieve specific benchmarks. Now maybe this doesn't matter. If you've ever wondered why so many mediocre personal trainers stay in business, it's because exercise is remarkably hard to get wrong enough that it doesn't work. Unlike a surgical procedure or like a narrow therapeutic index drug where a 10% dosing error is a catastrophe, exercise has a massive safety margin and a physiological buffer that is incredibly forgiving. You can do a lot of stuff wrong and still get benefits. I think about this often when I'm in the gym. Still, I think we need to move towards a more precise exercise prescription, one that mandates monitoring the specific clinical performance benchmarks that drive health and longevity. In Austin, to me, the current general guidelines seem analogous to prescribing a new medication at a fixed dose for every single patient and then never monitoring their physiological response. In what other area of medicine would we ever find that acceptable? Yeah, it doesn't really tend to happen very much. There's lots of areas in medicine where there are broad based clinical guidelines of like here is where you start, right? That might come to menopausal hormone therapy or here's how you would initiate thyroid replacement, or here's how you would treat somebody's blood lipids or something like that. But most of the time, it is based on, hey, here's the reasonable place to start and then monitoring and adjusting from there to achieve the outcome you want. That's the aspect of this that you're describing that's missing is we have the general guidelines on where to start. But if somebody is not meaningfully responding to that whatever starting dose you end up prescribing for them, it does require some kind of iterative adjustment, trial and error, interrogating what are they doing? Are they actually meeting the recommendations? What are the barriers and what dosage adjustments need to be made and how to get the outcomes that we're actually looking for rather than assuming that, oh, if I told them to do the guidelines, quote unquote, whatever that means. Even if they are meeting those guidelines, are they getting everything that we're looking for out of their activity? They might be somebody who's a little bit more physiologically resistant to that intervention, or they may be somebody who's even physiologically very sensitive to it in various ways for better or for worse. That might require some individualization. A lot of this is a bit more theoretical than it is strongly evidence-based that ultra-individualized exercise programming will lead to better risk of death, for example. That would need to be proven. But it is an intuitive concept that is broadly applied in many other areas of medicine. It's reasonable, I think, at this point to, in a sense, extrapolate it here and say we should actually try to get people not just doing these things, but objectively benefiting in some way from them. Yeah. So let's get into this longevity and training discussion. We think generally about the effects of meeting the current physical activity guidelines on things like mortality, so premature death. So for conditioning alone, meeting the aerobic guidelines by themselves, 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, it's associated with about a 30% reduction in all-cause mortality. Resistance training alone, adding those two days of muscle strengthening exercises, provides an independent benefit of 10% to 17% reduction in premature mortality. And when you do both, but you're looking at more like a 40% reduction in risk, this is kind of though where the one-size-fits-all prescription fails. And when we stop looking at just the activity and start looking at the actual physiological response, maybe like a key performance indicator or KPI for exercise, I think that we've got a little bit more nuance here. So the two big ones you're going to look at are VO2-Max and Strength. And now it's long been said, I'm sure that there are clips of many different influencers available for us to clip here and put them in. VO2-Max is the strongest predictor of survival. People have been saying that. People have been saying that. And look, there's data here. The Mansager study in 2018, 122,000 subjects found that elite cardiorespiratory fitness, the top 2.3% for VO2-Max, correlated with an 80% reduction in mortality risk compared to the lowest VO2-Max. And there is no ceiling for these benefits. That's important. It seems like as you continue to go up and up and up in cardiorespiratory fitness, the risk, particularly from cardiovascular disease, seems to go down. So generally speaking, you could say more cardio equals more better. And I'd be fine with that. But historically, Strength has been like a secondary to that. And I think even on some of our older podcasts, we've said, look, if you're listening to this podcast, if you're a barbell medicine podcast listener, you're probably doing enough for strength. But that's gotten some new legs that maybe strength is even more important than even us, maybe the biggest promoters of strength training in the industry, especially for clinical outcomes. Maybe it's getting some new legs here. So this 2025 Clinomex data, about 4,000 people that they looked at, they showed a massive discrepancy between muscular power and muscular strength, where muscular power, relative muscular power, so relative to somebody's body weight, provided it nearly 20 times higher risk discrimination than strength when they analyze the data. Now why? Well, it's one, the way they tested these things. Maximal muscle power was measured basically like an upright row. They pulled on a weight stack with the handle on it as fast as possible while they measured strength with a hand-grip test. And you're like, okay, which one would tie in multiple systems of the body in a way that is very predictive of badness happening? It's not going to be just you squeezing on something real hard. It's going to be you doing some sort of dynamic task that coordinates your body to move quickly and powerfully together. Now that being said, we talked about that on our last podcast about hand-grip strength. It does seem like low muscular power, in part, is a very high risk of mortality from this study. So, the first one was that the individual with the lowest power production had a hazard ratio up to 6.9, which if you're not familiar with hazard ratios, I'll give it to you in percentages. That's a 590% increased risk of death compared to those who are in the highest power group. Austin, do you think that power really is more predictive than strength, or it's just the way that's being tested in a research study like this? Probably some element to both. It does strike me that power is probably a really good integrator to your point, similar to the way that VO2max might be a good integrator of the full cardio respiratory pathway from the oxygen molecule coming into your lungs from the environment to getting delivered to the tissue and metabolize that integrates things at many levels there. And then similarly, power integrates the entire neuro-musculoskeletal apparatus, in a sense, a little bit better than strength. And it may even be a little bit more of a leading indicator of disease and decline, because it does tend to decay more than strength does. The magnitude of effect that we're observing here may be a little bit more impacted by that method measurement because of how poor hand grip strength is. But I think that the relationship is very plausible to me. I buy that. And so if you tell me, for example, somebody is able to pick your elite VO2max performance metric of choice, and you tell me that somebody has it, I'm like, okay, I feel really good in general about their cardio respiratory fitness level, whether it's by purely VO2max or a performance metric. Similarly, if you said that their power, whether given to me in terms of power units, or you told me that this person can power snatch, you know, 315 pounds, I'm like, yeah, I think they're good. I don't really need to know too much else about them, right? Yeah. No, that's a good point. Yeah. You'd feel similarly as confident, you know, 300-pound power snatch was crazy, right? Sure. Like, hey, they got a four-times body weight leg press. Yeah. I think the power snatch tells me more. Now, there are still other metrics that I would need to know about them, for example, because it's like, hey, what's their waist measurement though? What's the resting blood pressure? Both the hip and the hip. Yeah, it's not the only metric. Right? But in so far as we're in this realm of like muscular performance, for example, yeah, the snatch tells me more than the leg press, I think. Yeah. Leg press more than the hand grip strength, but maybe the power snatch even more. Right. Yeah. Now, here's where things get interesting. You look at these two massive data sets side by side, the numbers are telling. Two to max, a jump from the bottom of the pack to the elite top 2% resulted in an 80% reduction in the risk of premature death. But if we put that in reverse, if you have elite cardio and you lose it, this same data set would suggest that your risk of death doesn't just double, it increases by over 400%. Now, if we compare that to the Clinomex findings on muscle power, they found that individuals with the lowest power category had a 590% increased risk of death compared to the high power group. If we just look at these two data sets, this means that while we have this power, we have historically called the O2 max the ultimate predictor, perhaps muscle power may actually provide a higher risk thoughts. That's an interesting argument. I haven't know the thoughts beyond that at this time. Yeah. Same. Same. Now, okay. So how about some targets here? So let's start off with elite targets for conditioning. And this is going to vary by age, by sex. There's also some thought that ethnicity also matters and things of that nature. But just generally speaking, if you're a man aged 30 to 45, we want your VO2 max greater than 56 mils per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max test. Or it's like a field test. If you went for a one and a half mile run, you could do it faster than nine minutes and 30 seconds. For a woman in this age demo, it's 48 milliliters per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max and a one and a half mile run faster than 11 minutes. And then as we age, these things change. So 45 to 75, if you're a man, a VO2 max of 48 and a one and a half mile run of less at less than 11 minutes for that. And for women in that age demographic, it's a VO2 max greater than 38 and a one and a half mile run less than 13 and a half minutes. So those are some ways to maybe to assess your VO2 max and see how you stack up compared to the elite in at least that data set we were referencing. Now elite targets for strength and power are not quite as clean. There's not a lot of real data here, especially using dynamic strength like a squat, a bench press, or even like a leg press. In fact, there's really only one data set and it's only in dudes from the Cooper Institute. Basically they looked at leg press, one rep max and chest press, one rep max and then kind of saw how they're, what risk of mortality did they have over the next period of time. It looked like for dudes, if they had a leg press of one rep max of greater than twice their body weight and about 1.6 to two times their body weight for women, we're extrapolating that data obviously, that that seemed to be put them in the elite sort of strength category. For chest press, it was one and a half times body weight for men and one times body weight for women. Again, noting that this is only data in men and this is one study, it's a lot of caveats here. And that's probably best suited for individuals below the age of 50, whereas when we get older, things are going to change again just like they did with the VO2 max. And so again, made up numbers, I think having a leg press one rep max of like 1.5 times body weight for men or higher or 1.2 times body weight or higher for women, that's a reasonable target. And then for the chest press, it'd be body weight. So one times body weight for men and maybe 0.6 times body weight for women. You could also use relative hand grip strength and to the extent there's data on strength and like longevity, there's way more data here than there is on like dynamic strength tests. So for example, we know that for every five kilograms increase in absolute grip strength that's associated with about 10 to 15% reduction in all cause mortality risk. For most adults, a 10% gain in hand grip strength translates to about 3 to 5 kilos improvement in hand grip strength, which places folks into a lower risk category. The biggest improvements, however, we see are people going from low hand grip strength to normal hand grip strength. There's some improvement from normal to even more trained. Now, this is speculative because as we mentioned in our hand grip strength test that relative hand grip strength is probably a better marker, mainly because it corrects for the obesity paradox. We know that the single biggest predictor of somebody's hand grip strength is how much lean body mass they're carrying and individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass. So if we compare this to somebody's body weight, so kilos are able to produce, you know, force wise on a hand grip strength test to their kilos of body weight, we can come up with the ratio. So the average in the population right now is about 0.55 to 0.6 for men and 0.40 to 0.45 for women. And so for thinking about elite targets, right, what's that top sort of cohort, let's add 10%. Again, admittedly speculative, but I'm showing my work. You have to start somewhere. So for men, this would be a target range of 0.61 to 0.66 for relative hand grip strength and for women, a target range of 0.44 to 0.50. Again, they are speculative, but I think if someone, you know, gunned in my head, hey, what are some strength metrics I should be monitoring or targeting to make sure that somebody's getting the most out of their exercise program, better than nothing, I think. Although I'd like to see that validated because maybe it is better than nothing. Maybe exercise just works so damn well that we don't need these targets. It would be nice if that were the case, but I do not think that it is quite that special. So I agree that giving some general, even if speculative guidance here is better than nothing, but yeah, worthy of further study. Yeah, so that's strength, which most people measure by low velocity force production, one rep max, stuff like that, or in this case, a hand grip strength test, an isometric test. But what about power? There are tests of grip strength power, how quickly you close the thing and with what force, but maybe a more practical example would be like a vertical jump. And there's some data out there showing that a vertical jump of greater than 10 inches in men and greater than 8 inches in women would put them into an elite power category based on normative data we have of people in their 50s and 60s. I'm thinking about if I had a 60 something year old who's relatively untrained and they came in the gym, am I testing their vertical jump? Maybe it depends on your eyeball test when they walk in, right? How do they walk in? What is there? You're already paying attention to their gate speed and how they move and things like that to make that kind of a decision. There are some who might surprise you and then others where it's like you can tell just by the way they move that, yeah, this is not not wise. Yeah. Yeah. So those are some targets for like strength, cardiovascular fitness and power. And I think another thing we need to add here is progress, right? So we have some of these KPIs, but we also need to make sure the person's getting stronger, getting fitter, because getting stronger works better. We've got two recent systematic reviews that found a dose response relationship between strength gain and improvements in both resting blood pressure and hemoglobin A1c. So how your blood sugar has been doing for the past few months. In both reviews, the subjects that gained the most strength, reduce their blood pressure and their hemoglobin A1c by greater amounts compared to those who didn't improve as much in their strength or who did so to a smaller degree. We think that there are overlapping mechanisms here, contributing both to strength and health improvements, mostly mediated by the MTOR pathway and myokines. These are little hormones that your muscles produce when you use them, which seems to interfere with or otherwise reduce inflammatory pathways. This is an area of active research at the moment. Similarly, we also know that improving the O2 max works better from exercise compared to an exercise plan where you don't actually gain cardiovascular fitness similar to the data on strength, large scale studies, such as the heritage family study and subsequent analyses, demonstrate a clear relationship between the size or magnitude of the cardiovascular adaptation and health outcomes. Individuals who exhibited the largest increases in VO2 max experienced the most significant improvements in their metabolic health markers, so things like insulin sensitivity, lipid profiles, vascular function, whereas non-responders, those who performed the prescribed exercise but saw little to no change in their cardiovascular fitness, well, they showed significantly reduced improvements in these clinical markers. And for this, we think that the health benefits are intrinsically tied to the actual physiological adaptation rather than just the time spent exercising, probably mediated through amkinex because that's the major sort of pathway involved in cardiovascular fitness. Yes, so if we had to come over some barbell medicine, physical activity, guidelines for longevity, I think we'd move past the resistance train twice a week and the due conditioning for 150 minutes at minimum for a week. To me, that's like the floor, not the ceiling. And for longevity, I think that people need to exercise more, probably more than they want to or even can in the modern environment. So for aerobic training, I think my target would be moving away from 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, but more towards 300 to 600 minutes. Now, that is admittedly a lot. Admittedly, it is. But and at this volume, I think training intensity and how you distribute that matters. So the majority of this work should be done in the 60 to 80 percent range for max heart rate where you can speak comfortably, but not sing. A smaller portion, maybe up to a quarter of the total amount of conditioning that you're doing, should be done at higher intensities where speaking at all is difficult. And you should monitor performance to make sure that you're making progress related to your cardiorespiratory fitness, such as objectively testing your VO2 max or testing your one and a half mile run. And for resistance training, two to three days a week of lifting weights is the minimum that usually represents about two hours per week for most folks who are not listeners to the Parbo Medicine podcast. But for longevity, many individuals will need more training, perhaps another hour or two. And this can be split up into as many sessions as the individual prefers. The weights that are being moved should be challenging, but not maximal for most exercise, so something like two to four repetitions left in reserve. They should be hard, not maximal. And the exercises selected should target all of the major muscle groups of the body with user preference being the primary factor when it comes to specific exercise selection. Importantly, strength progress should be monitored to ensure the maximum return on investment when it comes to time spent exercising. And we detailed some of those. Now, Austin, to me, these seem like a sort of like treat to target strategy when it comes to exercise. What do you think about that? Yeah, I like the idea. It's something that reminds me of phrases that we used around blood lipids back in the day, which went away for a while and then kind of have come back to some extent in certain circles and same with kind of blood pressure of thinking about adjusting treatments to a particular target that is most clearly causally and or associated with lower risk of complications. So I think it's a reasonable way to go about this as with the drug therapies and those sorts of things related to blood cholesterol, blood pressure, etc. Where we had stronger outcome data, it would be nice to have the same here. But I like the idea of setting some kind of a target and tinkering and iteratively modifying and adjusting to try to get where you're trying to go. Yeah. So if you're doing the work, but your benchmarks are not moving, you know, we don't want to label you, but it seems like you may be non responsive to that specific dose and formulation of exercise. And in that case, we don't want to keep doing the same thing. We should adjust the prescription just like you would with medications. But that adaptation doesn't happen in a vacuum. If we're moving the goalposts from generic activity to these sort of elite performance targets that we associate with health, we have to address the most contested topic in the longevity and recovery communities, dietary protein. We're essentially caught between two competing biological realities. On the one side, you have the argument that high protein, especially that from animal sources, is like stepping on a gas pedal for aging by over activating growth pathways like MTOR and IGF-1. And then on the other side, we have this frailty trap where losing muscle mass and power is a much more immediate threat to your independence than theoretical cellular signaling. Between these arguments and the recent changes to the dietary guidelines that have raised the target protein intake, the question is how much protein should people be eating for longevity? So, Austin, before we get into some of the science, how would you even go about answering this question? A lot of it would depend on the person I'm talking to and trying to kind of meet them where they're at in both their level of understanding, knowledge, what their goals are and what they're trying to accomplish. There are going to be those who come from a background of either relatively little knowledge or purely from the all I've read everything in the world around the longevity space. So I'm coming in with a bias towards protein restriction, in which case we might need to discuss like, oh, there's actually some potential benefits to consuming some dietary protein, particularly in a supportive role for the resistance exercise that we just went into great detail on to support the adaptations that we're looking for there. And then we may also, and more likely in our context, have somebody coming in who is coming from the strength and power athlete world, bodybuilding, etc. Who is trying to consume very, very large amounts of dietary protein in many cases more than they might actually need. I think that both of us would retain some skepticism that that level of intake would be necessarily actively harming them in many situations, but the level that they actually require is probably less than they think. And they may actually derive some benefit through smart substitutions with other types of food sources. And so, you know, it really, as with many of these kinds of patient level conversations, it's just individualized based on who I'm talking to.  and so on. So, I'm going to start by talking to you. As far as answering this question on the scientific level, that's like another whole kind of question here that is not really our niche of like, how would I go about designing a research study to answer this question? Because then you have to start out by defining like, well, how are we defining longevity? And then going through the whole process of setting up a nutritional epidemiological study, which is, yeah, I would defer to our friend, Dr. Flanagan, to help us with that kind of thing. Yeah, that still doesn't absolve us from answering the question, you know, do we need to lower our protein targets or raise them? And so, I think we should look at some data and just see the arguments on both sides and maybe we can come to some sort of agreement or consensus here. All right, so the argument for lower protein. The case for protein restriction is built on the nutrient-sensing pathway known as mTOR, okay? So, you eat much of dietary protein, this pathway sort of kicks off and it is an anabolic pathway. So, if you're a lifter, you're familiar with this because you're like, yeah, when I lift weights, it does the same pathway too. You're very concerned with your mTOR related signaling. But advocates of a lower protein diet argue that chronic activation of this growth pathway via high amino acid, high protein intake, especially from leucine-rich animal sources, accelerates cellular deterioration or senescence. Now, this view is backed by significant rodent data where low protein diets consistently lead to longer lifespans in controlled environments. And proponents of this view suggest that the higher IGF-1, so insulin-like growth factor 1, that those levels, particularly during middle age, are the primary driver of cancer and metabolic dysfunction. From this perspective, the modern high protein diet is a biological mismatch for long-term cellular health. And for reference, most adults in the United States are eating a decent amount of protein. It's about 88 grams of protein per day or about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now, again, there's a lot of variation here. That's the average. So, Austin, what do you think about the idea that adults should be eating less protein to live longer? Based on what has been laid out here so far, I take kind of multiple issues with this. The first is that living longer itself is, in my mind, an incomplete goal, like living longer at all costs. And so there is a threshold beyond which there would actually start to be costs from further and further protein restriction. The other is that this argument so far is based predominantly on mechanistic-type arguments, which I think, as we've laid out before, you and I are both a little bit reticent to adopt in our clinical recommendations with great confidence. It might be something that comes up in our conversations, but is heavily caveated and tempered when it is based purely on mechanistic evidence. And the last reason is that protein is not one thing. And I suspect that the effects of the actual foods themselves is probably of greater significance, like everything that comes in the whole food source that you are consuming, rather than the fact that you are consuming an amino acid or a chain of amino acids in particular. Yeah. Yeah, I think that's well said. And I think what we dive into some of this research on higher protein intakes and how does that correlate, this will start to kind of reveal itself. So there is a 2020 BMJ meta-analysis of 31 prospective studies that found protein, total protein intake is associated with a lower cause mortality, but this is primarily driven by plant sources. So what they found is that people with higher total protein intake, they had a lower risk of premature death, provided that that protein was coming mostly from plants. So for every 3% increase in calories from plant protein, that correlated with a 5% reduction in the risk of premature mortality. It's thought that plant protein signals or may signal longevity more effectively because it typically results in a lower IGF-1 level than animal protein, particularly in sedentary individuals. There is also this weird kind of signal in the data that's related to age, something this transitioned between like middle age and older age. So for adults aged 50 to 65, higher protein intake, 20% or more of calories, that was associated with a four fold increase in cancer mortality. These were mostly sedentary individuals who are not talking about lifters who are protein maxing, for example, and there is a risk of dietary pattern confounding. Basically means like what else are you eating and where is this protein coming from? It's not plant based, it's more animal and it's processed food, for example. It does seem to disappear with more plant protein intake. But then it shifts for adults over the age of 65, high protein intake is associated with reduced cancer and all cause mortality. Reacting is like a protective factor against frailty if you were thinking about sarcopenia risk, for example. So Austin, do you think that this age related change in proteins effects are due to maybe developing anabolic resistance and subsequent sarcopenia risk or it's just like an artifact of the data set and it's just noisy? Yeah, I think it's super noisy. I do not have confident conclusions here. And so I think it's honestly a waste of time for me to speculate a ton on this because this whole body of literature is really complex and nuanced to interpret even though at the same time the conclusions that we tend to draw and how that informs our recommendations is not nearly as complex. I think that for me, if anything, over the years my protein recommendations for folks have been revised downward. And I think that that's emerged from a transition from a focus on optimizing kind of musculoskeletal adaptations without really much consideration for much else and also the fact that a decade ago our understanding and the body of evidence was more limited compared with where we are now to now having more data to inform these things, having a better kind of fund of knowledge around it and then other considerations as well. So now I tend to much more often recommend falling somewhere north of 1.2 grams per kilo and I tend to bias it much more predominantly towards plant-based sources and that also reflects my own dietary pattern, especially in recent years. I think that we have seen compelling evidence that when people are consuming protein at this dose range of say somewhere in the range of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilo per day, even if the vast majority of it is coming from plant-derived protein sources, they can get very similar, if not equivalent musculoskeletal adaptations. They get tons of other health benefits. Those protein sources also tend to come with decent amounts of dietary fiber and other kind of like beneficial plant-based bioactives and things like that. And so that is kind of where things have landed. I do not personally eat a diet that is entirely exclusionary of certain animal-derived food products, particularly dairy as a very common source in my own diet, but others may obviously weigh and make these decisions differently. But that's been I think the predominant kind of shift over the years in terms of my recommendations and conclusions from the available evidence. And though some of these like little nuances and like interesting quirks and age-related variations, I don't really know what to make of it at this time. Yeah, I'm more just looking at like straight up just outcome data, like to the extent that we have them and then just realizing this whole field is much more complex. When people say, oh, this singular factor does X, I'm like, be sure. That's pretty challenging. So I think right now my recommendations on protein, I don't know that they're any different than they were a year ago, two years ago. If anything, I'm more tolerant of an even lower intake. Like if I was a hard line, 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Yeah. Okay, if it's 1.2, like it's fine. Yeah, absolutely. And I think mainly when people are thinking about protein maxing, particularly those who are not training, I think I could maybe guess that there are some benefits. Like, okay, if you're increasing protein intake and you're displacing previously like ultra-processed foods with now more minimally processed or unprocessed protein sources, that's probably a net win from an energy intake perspective. Otherwise, I think if you were eating mostly chicken breast and fish and eggs and dairy and whatever, and they're like, should I lower my protein intake? I'm like, eh, or should I raise my protein intake? I'm like, probably not. If anything, you could take some of that protein and allocate it towards plant-based sources. You get like a double whammy one, more plant-based food in general, likely to be better, more fiber, generally better. For people that are not eating that much protein and they're like, should I increase my protein? I'm like, yeah, but probably do it through plant-based sources if you can. Otherwise, I just don't find this particularly interesting. I'm like, it's part of this larger dietary pattern that's much more concerning to me compared to, you know, is it 1.2? Is it 1.4? Is it 1.6? Is it 1.8? And look, if you are a highly competitive, you know, strength athlete, physique athlete or whatever, I understand that this whole that you don't care. Like you just probably turned the podcast off, but if you still happen to be listening, I also don't know that there's a risk of eating that much protein. I really don't, particularly with that sort of dietary pattern. You're probably eating a lot of vegetables, we hope. You're probably not eating a lot of ultra processed foods and the energy intake is likely correct for your goals. And so this isn't meant to mean like you shouldn't eat as much protein. I'm not trying to fear Manga. I just think like we probably went a little too far. Yeah. I mean, but the thing is you still hear this from a lot of folks and influencers out there and certain social media personalities who are like, look, you must consume an extremely high dose of protein. Otherwise you're going to have no chance of building sufficient muscle or you're going to be at very high risk of sarcopenia. And it's like, none of those things are true when you get above this like modest level because the context of comorbid disease and your physical activity are way more important variables when it comes to your muscle outcomes compared with whether you're consuming 1.2 or 1.6 or if you go up to 2.2 or 3.1 or any of those sorts of things. I think that like we're kind of shifting this to put it in its appropriate level of waiting in the, if you're going to care about like musculoskeletal health, like the risk of sarcopenia for most people is not like off the charts high compared with the risk of like cardiovascular disease, much higher risk, right? And so, you know, even just by doing a modest amount of physical training, you can avert the risk of sarcopenia. Even if you are consuming a relatively lower protein diet, you'd be fine from that standpoint. Whereas the converse is not true. If you cranked up your dietary protein, but you were like completely physically, you know, inactive or insufficiently active, I'd be more worried about that person. And so we're kind of waiting these things a little bit more appropriately, I think at this point in time for what are the actual risks that we're being faced with and what are the outcome data that we have available to us to inform those things rather than like this chain of either mechanistic reasoning or reasoning that ignores the outcome data to say, you need protein for muscles, more protein is better, animal protein is the most bioavailable, therefore, like eat all the, you know, ribeye in the world. And it's like, yeah, that breaks apart at multiple levels along the way. Yeah. Yeah. Will said. All right. Well, when we come back from this break, we're going to talk about the most potent peptide that's trending on TikTok. Oh, God. If you want. Quick break from our podcast, because I want to mention today's sponsor, Caraway. Now I've been going through the process of moving into a new house and I've been finding a lot of things that I'm ready to replace. That includes stuff that I cook with in the kitchen. Enter Caraway. Caraway has gained a lot of traction for their non-toxic ceramic coating. From a materials perspective, these are designed to be third-party tested and manufactured without the use of forever chemicals like PFAS. Now, while the long-term clinical data on the cumulative exposure to some of these compounds is still an area of active research, many people, myself included, prefer to simply minimize exposure whenever possible. Beyond the chemistry, the actual utility is what stands out. I can confirm that the ceramic surface actually works. It makes the transition from cooking to cleaning significantly more efficient and, despite using it daily for the last few months, it shows no signs of wear. Oh, yeah. It looks great, too. They've recently expanded their line as well. They've released a new mechanical kitchen timer that's easy to use, even if your hands are messy during food prep. They also launched the Bakeware Plus collection that uses the same specialty ceramic coating for easier food release and quick cleanup after you're done cooking. Over 100,000 people have rated Caraway Kitchen's five stars, so if you're looking to upgrade your setup with equipment that matches a health-conscious lifestyle, Caraway's Cookware set is a smart entry point. It can save you up to $190 versus buying the pieces individually. To get yours, visit carawayhome.com-bbm to take an additional 10% off your next purchase. This deal is exclusive to our listeners, so do use code BBM at checkout or go to carawayhome.com-bbm for non-toxic kitchenware made modern. All right, so we are back, and we're talking again about the most popular peptide on TikTok. But this is different than what the rest of the influencers are talking about. This one actually has a bunch of good evidence that it does interesting things, and perhaps it is a longevity drug cloaked in obesity treatment clothing. You've heard about the weight loss, and you may have even heard about the sleep apnea benefits, but do you know how these medications affect the heart, the kidneys, the brain, and potentially more? Now Austin, you work with a lot of people who are taking these medications. Has anyone ever come to you requesting a prescription purely for a longevity benefit? Yeah, so I would, yeah, many, many, many hundreds, probably even getting into the well over a thousand plus folks on these medicines that I've accrued at this point. And the number of people who are looking at this purely through a longevity lens is pretty small. There's a little bit of a neuro, a couple, and those really are relating to one of a small handful of conditions that they're most worried about, but a lot of times it is relating to hypothetical neuroprotective benefits. Because I think that the management and risk reduction for cardiovascular disease at this point is pretty well established how we go about that, ensuring good metabolic health and blood pressure, lipid control, insulin sensitivity, physical activity, all those kind of things. Fortunately, many of those same things have benefits across numerous other organ systems to include the brain, but that neurodegenerative disease is a tough nut to crack in terms of our ability to prevent and mitigate morbidity and certainly premature death as a result of its complications. So that's actually been an area where I've had a handful of patients that I can think of off the top of my head inquire about. It's not one where I have a large body of evidence that I can stand on and say, yes, these drugs or even micro dosing, which is another common question around them, that that will confer that degree of benefit. But it's an interesting conversation to have. Many of these folks, as you can imagine, tend towards that health maximizer, optimizer, get tons of data, things like that end of the spectrum. Yeah, that makes sense. Now I think for steelmaning the other side of that argument, we're going to set maybe the risks of muscle loss aside. I feel like we have pounded that into the ground. We beat that horse. We're going to talk about it again to be clear. Yeah, I think we should with some new listeners here as an overblown thing, but go on. We'll set that aside for now. But I think maybe many people in the general public think of drugs like wegovy and zap bound and whatever they're going to call retachotide. Thinking about these drugs, they're just obesity medications. And so the extent that we're seeing these knock on benefits on whether it's cardiovascular disease, kidney health, perhaps even cognitive benefit, whatever, longevity, just more generally speaking, well, it's just due to managing the weight. And then there's this high collateral cost of sarcopenia. It's the muscle loss. It all comes down to muscle loss. And the first thing I should say is none of these studies so far are directly looking at muscle tissue. They're looking at lean mass and fat mass. So effectively anything that is not fat is considered lean mass. So that's water, bone, any sort of protein-based thing in your body, which certainly includes, but is not limited to just skeletal muscle. And so when we look at what would be maybe like a predicted loss or predicted composition of weight loss, you look at dietary interventions alone. So just calorie restriction. And on average for every pound or a unit of weight that people lose, about 75% of it will be fat mass and 25% will be not fat mass. Some of that is muscle, but certainly not all of it is actual skeletal muscle tissue. That would be our sort of line in the sand. Do GLP-1s do way worse than that, for example? And it doesn't really appear so on average. Yes, the step one trial initially that was the sort of like, wow, they're losing 40% lean mass for unit weight loss, but no study since that has shown that proportion. So it does seem to be a little outlier. Again, you look at the lifestyle-only group there and their lean mass losses in that step one trial, and you're like, okay, it's maybe like a measurement issue or a population issue or something else. But again, if this signal was reliable and robust, you'd see it every single time, and we just don't. So that's thing one. Thing two, what you would expect is, okay, if these people lose weight, right, and they tend to lose more weight with these anti-OBC medications. So then therefore they're losing way more muscle. So if that would be your prediction, then you would predict at the end of the study, if they were to check strength, functional status, anything like that, those would also be decreased. They would have a worse hand grip strength. They'd have a worse sit to stand. They would have worse walking speed. And this was actually tested in the semiline study. And in fact, despite no exercise or at least programmed exercise during the year-long study, it got better. The people who would have been diagnosed with sarcopenia was reduced. Their muscle quality improved. And so while their muscle cross-sectional area may have gone down, we think maybe they lost some intramuscular fat, for example. Other sort of things that don't really contribute to the muscle actually functioning or maybe, in fact, corrected by administration of these medicines. And then the third part of this is like, your, this concern around too much muscle loss comes down to the fact that people will bypass some sort of threshold where they were previously functional. Now they've lost enough muscle mass, their function has been decreased. They're starting from a higher point anyway. They have more muscle as is. You compare an individual with obesity to a lean counterpart, similar activity levels, notwithstanding. They have way more muscle. It's just, it's not really compared. You can't really compare them. Does the muscle work as well? Generally not, but they just have more of it. And so they're at such, they're so far removed for being at risk for sarcopenia due to carrying too little muscle mass. And sarcopenia again, is not just the loss of muscle mass, it's the loss of muscle function. It doesn't really register to me. It's not like a real risk. Like an individual with obesity who's appropriately prescribed this medication and monitored, it's just doesn't seem like a real risk. I think it's overblown. 100% agree. Yes, I'm inclined to agree. I also think that part of the conversation has been muddied by the fact that nobody actually, a lot of the people making these arguments don't really understand the differences in terms of the terminology used around body composition analysis. So they'll hear lean body mass or fat free mass or muscle mass. These are all different things. They're not the same thing. There is the water element. There is non muscle tissue that is also present in muscle, what is being measured and assumed to be muscle mass. That's the fat that's in there that can interfere with muscle quality. And so conflating all these terms into one thing and then saying, oh, people are hemorrhaging 40% of their muscle mass. And then conflating that with the idea that these people are developing sarcopenia left and right and that they're dying prematurely as a result. It's like these are like logical triple jumps that you're making from one to the other compared with what we actually observe in reality. Yeah. So this is part and this is more of just another annoyance that happens when you spend too much time on the internet, particularly on social media where you see talking head clips like this you may be watching. People will claim, well, look, obesity is really just a risk of undermuscle. It's undermuscled. And so the risk of losing that muscle far outweighs the benefits of losing fat mass. And that is completely opposite to what all of the evidence shows us. Again, not only do individuals with obesity tend to carry more muscle than their lean counterparts, but the muscle is not as protective as the fat is risky. Yes. We do prefer if you had, if you were an individual with obesity, we would prefer that you also are carrying a lot of muscle mass. But it's most important for you to not necessarily gain more muscle, but it's actually to lose the fat if you were open to weight management at that time. Yes, agree. I think that that is accurate and should be foot stomped a bit more, especially when we again find ourselves in these arguments with people. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe the, just to tie it all together, like, why do people care? They're like, well, look, I would never take these drugs personally and I would never recommend them to other folks either because you should just do it through diet and exercise. One, it's better. You know, we don't have this risk of muscle loss. Two, you know, there's no shortcuts in life and you get these better habits, all these sorts of things. How does that strike you? I'm looking at your face right now and it's not really. Because I think that now the threads algorithm just feeds me all of the GLP one rage bait that is out there. And that is what all of the things that you just said are most of the things that I see and I have to disregard rather than engage with because it's just deeply frustrating to hear and to listen to. So the first part of somebody said, I would never take one of those things like, fine, nobody's, you know, you don't have to do it like nobody's forcing you to take it. It's like perfectly okay to not if you don't want to. As far as whether or not you would recommend it to somebody else, I may take some quibbles with that depending on like what is your level of authority? What sort of patients are you advising? What are they coming to you for? Because are you a doctor? Whether you are advising or should be advising on anything is in question here. Because if you are not going to advise their use, I have questions about your ability to interpret data here, right? So if, for example, and this is a post that I have been like kind of drafting and editing in my mind for a long time that has yet to really bear fruit just yet. But let's say that these medicines were much more harmful than beneficial. Let's say that they dissolved all of your muscle mass and did not confer any benefits compared with, you know, quote unquote natural weight loss by regular diet and exercise, things like that. If it had this like net harm effect, we have ample research in randomized trials at this point that should show us those effects. We should see from the multiple different lines of evidence across the numerous different agents, right? That these things are causing harm, that more people are getting hospitalized, more people are falling, fractures, premature death, all sorts of things, and the drugs get pulled from the market. There is not even a signal for that. Now that is not to say that these medicines are completely have no potential harm, that they can be used carelessly, that they don't require monitoring. All of those things are in fact the case, that there are potential downsides that should be weighed against potential benefits for the individual patient. There are dosage adjustments that need to be accounted for. There are monitoring that should be in place, and that is why these things require care by a physician who knows what they're doing with these medications. But those folks are not honest brokers of information or accurate interpreters of the evidence around it. They hear something about muscle, and because maybe their whole world is fitness and muscle, then any effect on muscle that might not be the most favorable thing on earth is catastrophic. Well, fortunately, that's not the case. This is quantifiable. We see improvements in muscle quality. We see improvements in functional status, again, with typical use of these medicines for appropriately selected patients. It is possible to push people's weight loss way too far, but I almost never see that happening. Of course, I work in a practice where we are monitoring and paying attention to people and reassessing them when it comes time for refills and dose adjustments and things like that. But if you take somebody whose BMI is, I don't know, 20, and you put them on a GLP-1 agonist and don't monitor them, and their BMI ends up 16, yeah, you probably didn't select your patient very well, or there was not enough monitoring or something like that. But the idea that we're taking patients with clinical obesity and pushing them into sarcopenia, like left and right, is not happening. I just need to be very clear about that in practice. And so if the argument is that the net harms are exceeding the net benefits, or that's how this math shakes out, the evidence should show it. Otherwise, you are alleging that there is a widespread, multi-center, multi-randomized trial, multi-researcher conspiracy happening to where they are all colluding to generate ample amounts of favorable outcome data across numerous organ systems, numerous disease states, numerous patient populations, numerous countries around the world. It's kind of not super plausible. Well, Rockefeller controls all of this, so that's what happened. Now, the truth about GLP-1 receptor agonist and their ilk is that the way the evidence suggests they provide protection for a lot of different things that seem to be weight independent, or at least have some weight independent effects, especially when it comes to the heart and the kidneys, although there's some more interesting data emerging related to inflammation, potentially some cognitive benefits, and even just longevity, more broadly speaking. So with respect to the heart, the select trial showed that in 17,000 adults with preexisting heart disease but without diabetes, some agglutide reduced major cardiac events by 20%, and here's what's interesting, because if you were like, oh, this is just because of obesity management. Yeah, the benefit appeared almost immediately. Before significant weight loss had occurred, these risk factors had decreased, and there was a direct cardio protective effect, which to me is interesting. What else? Is this just an inflammation thing? Because people say that about statins, too. They're like, well, statins work by decreasing inflammation, not lowering cholesterol. I was like, well, two things can be true. We can be seeing a benefit from obesity reduction and also a benefit from inflammation control or even something else we don't even know what we're looking at. I don't know, how do you view the select trial? Yeah, similarly to other areas we've talked about on this podcast, I'm focused on the outcome, and the outcomes being in a net favorable direction is where I hang my hat. It's a good thing that we see improvement in cardiovascular risk by whatever mechanism here. It would be unsurprising to me if there is a fraction, potentially a large fraction of that mediated by weight-related benefits, but also some that are weight-independent. That is not surprising to me. That would not be a novel sort of thing, as you are alluding to here. One of the other areas where it's really interesting that I'm observing this more and more in my patient population are patients with inflammatory conditions and things like osteoarthritis. Arthritis and psoriatic arthritis and endometriosis and PCOS and things like that who have this kind of generalized inflammatory state and potentially some musculoskeletal aches and pains is improvements in those pains nearly immediately upon initiation of the medicine before substantial weight loss has occurred. To preempt a little bit of a caveat there that I would make to myself is like I'm not priming them to expect improvement in pain or purporting this or putting it forth as a potential treatment for that. It's almost more like an incidental observation that they are not necessarily expecting unless they have been primed elsewhere. It's another interesting thing that suggests that there are likely to be some non-weight-related mechanisms of benefit from these agents. We saw that in the Triumph IV study. That's the phase III clinical trial on retachrytide. It was originally on osteoarthritis and pain scores. We saw a massive reduction there, but also weight loss too. Is this mostly related to the weight loss? Is it mostly related to some other sort of mechanism? Can it be both? Yeah, to your point. Mechanisms interesting fodder for around the campfire at the pub, but ultimately are the outcomes good and what are the risks? There was actually another paper by one of our favorites, a friend of the show, Dr. Speakman. I don't know if you saw this. It was basically a mechanistic study looking at how some aglutide affected chondrocytes. Those were like the cells and the various tissues around the joint. Favorable changes there. Perhaps that is mediating in effect, not just inflammation, not just weight loss, perhaps some actual cell level activity going on there. The idea of cartilage regrowth has been the aspirational goal of orthopedics for decades now. There was a signal that that might actually be happening. I don't actually know how that would happen, but I'm glad there are smart people trying to figure that out. Yeah, well look, if you were a BPC person or a TB-500 peptide person, you'd say, well, that's what these peptides do. It's interesting if true. Where's the data in humans? And then like, oh, it doesn't exist. I'm like, okay, so anyway, we do have this data in humans. Right. Yeah, so maybe just replace the BPC with the terzepotep anyway. So we talked about osteoarthritis. We talked about heart disease. We've mentioned before that there's some good evidence on reducing kidney disease, the flow trial here with some aglotide reduced the risk of major kidney disease by events by 24% in patients with type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease. So you would expect that vulnerable population to see the biggest benefit.  you want to take a stab or a prediction on how this would work on individuals who maybe are at risk for chronic kidney disease? Perhaps they have high blood pressure, for example. Like, medication might help? Yeah, I think that the lower the patient's absolute risk is at baseline, the less likely they are to have benefit, or at least the harder it would be to show it. And so, like, if somebody is at elevated but still low overall absolute risk of developing this, you would have to have a massive study for a really long time to show a substantial improvement in that risk. But it also depends on, like, what does that at risk mean? So if it is, you know, do, you know, if they have a history of high blood pressure, then maybe that's indicative of do they have, you know, some metabolic disease that itself would increase the risk of developing chronic kidney disease? Yeah, I would expect some benefit. It would probably be modest at that stage. It's just easier to show bigger effects in people with bigger levels of risk compared with those with smaller levels of risk. So I would expect that if you had a sufficiently powered trial, you might find a signal, it might not be earth shattering for people who are that early. But I would expect to see one nonetheless. Yeah. And for our longevity maxers or health maxers, if you will, there's actually a new study that recently was published showing that a year of GLP-1 therapy can actually reduce the grim age clock. If you remember back to the biological clock, this is one of the second generation clocks that we were talking about. So actually changes the DNA methylation that is picked up on that test. To the extent, again, that affects outcomes, you know, we need some better mortality data, for example, to really correlate that. But look, it's not nothing. Yeah. That seems pretty interesting to me. Now, and the, and the, and the other thing I would add is again, not a signal for harm, right? Which who knows what the meaning of that potential beneficial signal is, even if it's a false positive and things are neutral, like cool, but we're not seeing signals of harm. And because that's the thing is, you know, in these frustrating conversations that I find myself trying to avoid more and more on the internet, it is often people kind of inappropriately waiting the relative benefits and potential risks of these medicines blowing theoretical or potential risks way out of proportion. While underweighting the potential benefits, mainly by saying that, oh, you could instead just as easily lose this weight through diet and exercise. Like if it were truly that easy, then short, just do it, right? But it is, in fact, not that easy for the vast majority of people who are benefiting from these medicines. Otherwise, intensive lifestyle intervention, we have randomized trials on it. They would have shown, oh, like equivalent success rates, right? In terms of clinically significant weight loss, that's able to be sustained as long as people are sustaining the intervention in the same way. That is not, in fact, what we observe. So, you know, hard to know how to argue with folks in these situations. That's tough. Yeah. We should say it's not all rainbows and roses here. A few different studies have been published recently showing maybe not the effect we were thinking about when it came to these GLP-1 receptor agnes one had to do with that cancer risk reduction. This was a really hot topic maybe like six months ago. It was like, look, we're seeing reduction in risk of all these various different types of cancer. And it's like, well, it's mediated by weight loss is mediated by something else doesn't really pan out outside of the obesity related risk. That seems to be the case right now. That may change in the future, but that was kind of a bummer. Yeah. I don't have a ton of additional thoughts on this outside of I think that proving cancer risk reduction in this type of way, for example, if we do think it's going to be mediated by weight reduction, similarly going to need a really big study and it's probably going to need to run for a really long time to detect the signal. And so that an initial trial was negative doesn't rule out this possibility for me entirely. It makes me less enthusiastic about it, but I still find that potential outcome plausible enough that I think a more strongly powered study or a longer duration study may show it. Now, what would that turn into on the back end? Let's say it did show something. Does that mean that we just put everyone on these medicines under the idea of, hey, if you're just on it for long enough, then it might reduce your risk of cancer. I actually don't see it gaining like a FDA indication for like cancer prevention anytime in the foreseeable future, but rather, again, it may be like another kind of quote unquote off target benefit in people who are otherwise appropriately selected for the use of these medicines. Yeah. And the last sort of bummer here has to do with Alzheimer's, some other neurodegenerative disorders, the evoke trials were recently kind of published, basically showing that the GLP ones did not really slow the progression of established Alzheimer's disease. Now, reducing the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in the first place or other other neurodegenerative conditions, that's a separate thing from actually reducing the risk of progression. So we'll be interested to see how data pans out there. But yeah, look, we're not we're not chilling for big pharma here. We're just here's the data and like do with it what you will. I kind of like your approach to this. It's like, look, you asked me to be your consultant, I'm happy to do that. But ultimately, what we decide to do is your decision. Yeah. And the evoke trials, my recollection of them was that it was actually looking at oral somagglutide, not any of the injectables, and it was using the ribelsus form. So like the older form of oral somagglutide up to 14 milligrams for patients with early Alzheimer's disease. So that I have like kind of multiple issues with that, like in general Alzheimer's like nothing really works for it. We have some medicines that are approved. But yeah, I don't really for established Alzheimer's disease. Yeah, we the older medicines that have been around for a long time, trivial benefit, the newer medicines. I think we talked about some of the monoclonal infusions. I definitely don't love those. I'm not surprised that a like low potency, low efficacy agent like ribelsus didn't have a significant benefit in an exceedingly difficult to treat condition. I reserve some degree of I wouldn't say optimism, but like there's still something to be studied as far as again longer term, more potent agents, longer lead time, maybe for patients who have not yet developed it already, or even potentially more potent agents in people who have then something kind of crummy like oral, the ribelsus form compared with now more, our newer oral wigovi or any of the injectables or the increasingly potent options. But yeah, I'm not, I would never be terribly optimistic about treatment of Alzheimer's disease, at least based on history to date. I don't know that we're likely to crack that nut anytime soon. But yeah. Yeah. So it seems like we've, you know, we've got some good signals in the evidence, but we don't really have any like 30 year trials showing that GLP-1 receptor agonists extend maximum human lifespan. But it does seem like there's something there with respect to health span delay in the onset of disease, particularly in individuals with obesity, are any results or any sort of leads there that are more interesting to you than anything we've discussed so far, something that's coming out? I mean, I think that by far the most prevalent issue that we observe in the population is just this kind of constellation of actually now what's been termed CKM syndrome, like cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome, obesity and its effects on all of these different organs, like instead of, hey, I'm going to put you on medicines for your heart disease and then medicines for your kidney disease and then medicines for your fatty liver disease and then medicines for your diabetes. It's like we have something that is truly attacking like the root of this issue. And so that's where most of my optimism stands as like the biggest and most prevalent health problem leading to preventable morbidity and mortality kind of worldwide at the moment. You know, we've talked about other kind of promising avenues in this space to include some of the ones that to whatever extent you worry about lean mass, they're all looking at these agents that are maybe combined agonists of things that will not only promote fat mass loss, but maybe accretion or gain of lean body mass or muscle mass. So like a jacked medicine, I think that the fitness industry would really lose its mind that kind of thing comes around. But essentially it would turn this into a solved problem if that kind of thing pans out. TBD, we'll see, that's an interesting idea for me. Yeah, yeah, I think I feel pretty confident saying that these are definitely good for longevity in those with obesity, type two diabetes, sleep apnea, particularly if that's a comorbidity and some forms of heart disease, again, especially if they have obesity as a comorbidity. Possibly good for longevity in those without any of those conditions, unclear on evidence, because mainly it hasn't been investigated in just generally healthy population. They're taking these at a whatever dose, let's see what happens. I feel confident that the sarcopenia risk is overstated when appropriately prescribed and monitored. I can think of a use case where things would get dicey thinking about a woman in her early 30s who's trying to lose like five pounds or something, doesn't resistance train, a Pilates princess, getting some research chemicals in a DIY sort of situation, right? And it's like, sure, I don't think she's at risk of quote, sarcopenia, like full, you know, the actual diagnosis, but losing some precious muscle mass, she didn't need to lose or couldn't really afford to lose. But yeah, if you use powerful agents inappropriately, like, I don't know that that was really like a surprise, I guess. Yeah, tools have uses. I mean, that's the bottom line. All right, so that's the story on using GLP ones for longevity. We'll see how the data continues to evolve and change over time, particularly any notable effects that occur independent of weight loss. But there's another pharmacological lever that people often pull to protect the same muscle mass and cardiovascular health as they age, and it's arguably even more controversial. We've spent the segment talking about the potential metabolic downside of aging. And now we need to look at the hormonal decline. Let's shift gears to the latest data on hormone replacement therapy and whether it actually moves the needle on cardiac risk. Now, Austin, there's a massive wave of fear that still surrounds hormone replacement therapy or HRT, especially women, largely driven by a misunderstanding of 20 year old data. You see patients every day who are interested in HRT. Now, are they curious because they heard about this on the news? Well, they removed the black box warning, it's good. And if they are, do they express concerns about heart disease or breast cancer risks? Well, I think you're probably talking about the black box warning that was on vaginal estrogen products. And most patients that I'm coming across are actually not terribly aware of that as a thing, nor is that really informing them seeking it. More often the conversations around systemic kind of menopausal hormone therapy, that would be things like transdermal estradiol or oral forms of estrogen replacement, et cetera, that can provide benefit for a variety of other symptoms compared with local vaginal estrogen therapy, which is beneficial and essentially has no significant risks and can be used safely in pretty much everyone, which is a big reason why that black box warning was appropriately removed. But the concerns around things like heart disease risk, yeah, they go back decades at this point. And I think that if we are to do a, our own treatment of the data around the women's health initiative and the implications that had both at the time and for how we should use these therapies these days, certainly would benefit from its own podcast. But that was definitely a different era using different agents and also in a different context compared with the way that they're more often being used now. So what I mean is literally different formulations of the hormones and also in a population that in general was quite a bit older than a lot of the folks who are interested in pursuing menopausal hormone therapy these days among the women that I tend to see day to day in practice now who are interested in it for a variety of reasons. Now to be clear, the current kind of approved uses or indications of menopausal hormone therapy are only for a handful of things. It includes the vasomotor symptoms, so that's things like hot flashes and night sweats, et cetera. Those include the genitourinary syndrome of menopause, so vaginal atrophy, dryness, pain, recurrent UTIs, things like that. Then osteoporosis prevention or protecting bone health through the menopausal transition and beyond, although that benefit necessitates kind of staying on therapy longer term, which is becoming an increasingly accepted practice. The evidence for benefits beyond those is increasingly slim, even though it is an area of lots of discussion and interest, whether it comes to claims around prevention of cardiovascular disease or prevention of dementia or addressing other symptoms that can be associated with menopause like musculoskeletal aches and pains and improving sleep and mood disturbances. A lot of people claim benefits of these things. I do not push back or challenge them when they report experiencing these things. I more often frame it as people's experience as pretty individual here and as long as it is being done safely, I'm very open to trying menopausal hormone therapy for women who may be going through the menopausal transition, whether in quote-unquote perimenopause or beyond it, as long as it is being done safely. There's a whole set of criteria that we use to assess patients and kind of risk stratify them, determine whether they are candidates for therapy and if they are, which type is the safest because there are a bunch of different types, again, very different from the type that was originally studied a couple decades ago in that original trial. So whether we're using transdermal or gels or creams or patches or orals or vaginal rings or all sorts of other kind of methods of administration, I'm happy to talk about the pros and cons with people individually about those as well as the other kind of complementary hormones that may or may not need to be included as part of their regimen. So in general, it's a hot topic. Lots of people are discussing it. I think that leaning too heavily on data from 20 plus years ago is not wise and fortunately things seem to be evolving at multiple levels with patients in the clinical and among clinicians and even at the level of the FDA, clearly because they're paying attention to this and kind of modifying things as we go. Yeah, it is kind of interesting as you mentioned that 20 something year old women's health initiative. Yeah, it seemed like at the time that it would you increase the risk of blood clots, major cardiac events. That's what the data said. I got the studies are in the show notes, you just pull them up and it'll say right there in the conclusions. And yeah, it seemed like and you can correct me if I'm wrong, when researchers went back and kind of did this like subgroup analysis based on various the certain age ranges in there, they didn't find that signal. In fact, they found like a cardiovascular disease like risk reduction in a certain cohort like women aged 50 to 59. Within 10 years of menopause, so like a 30% lower risk of heart attacks and death if they were in that trial. But that's not what the original data kind of like was how it was reported. Kind of an interesting shift. Do you think more people are going to end up on HRT now that this sort of like reversal? Oh, I think they should. I think that only a tiny fraction of women who are eligible to use menopausal hormone therapy are in fact using it. And there are tons of persistent fears about this. I encounter them regularly in fact had a woman recently who was still quite young in her 40s, but she had for other reasons, had to undergo surgery that removed her ovaries. So she was essentially put into what's called surgical menopause. And that is a situation that absolutely requires hormone replacement afterwards. Otherwise, an extremely high risk of osteoporosis developing. And she presumably because of maybe poor counseling inadequate conversation from the clinician was afraid of getting cancer. So she didn't take the hormones. And then I'm kind of trying to, you know, nudge in the direction of, hey, we got to take a close look at your bone density. And this is something that really ought to be addressed because in a completely other context, I've seen women who are a couple decades older in the hospital setting get admitted for multiple, you know, osteoporotic fractures. And when I take their history, they're like, yeah, I had my ovaries removed in my 30s and nobody ever put me on hormones. And here I am. And I'm like, this was 100% preventable. It's just decades too late. And so we know that there remains a lot of fear, a lot of stigma around the use of these things. It can be tricky to learn because this is not something that I would say that I received exceptionally thorough training in, in internal medicine residency, it's something that I had to kind of go out of my way to acquire additional training, education and experience in being able to use these things safely, and to be able to counsel and discuss these risks on an individual basis. So it takes time and effort, but it is ultimately worthwhile to be able to guide people through this kind of like a major transition in life, mitigate their risk of unpleasant symptoms, and also improve their longer term health outcomes. Yeah, yeah, I also want to know, are you seeing some tie-ins with like the musculoskeletal system? You talked about bone density and risk of fracture and falls and stuff like that, but what about actual just like muscle function? Because the loss of muscle and menopause, it's not a testosterone problem. Estrogen withdrawal, estrogen is like this shield has to have to do with muscle cell, not just atrophy, but also just apoptosis and such. And so are you seeing like a signal there where people who are being placed on HRT, they're having better muscular function and stuff like that, or perhaps they're more apt to go to the gym, anything like that? Yeah, it's hard for me to draw confident conclusions about like a direct causation there. I think that in general, for example, let's say that there's a woman going through the perimenopausal and menopausal transition, and their sleep is just wrecked from like drenching night sweats and hot flashes throughout the day. And they're exhausted during the day, and that impacts motivation to exercise. And certainly if they're able to maybe limits their load tolerance, volume tolerance, intensity, and so maybe, if you address those symptoms and they're able to sleep better, rest better, recover better, then they're like more energized and motivated. And so there's like multiple different ways that you could impact the kind of what we'll call the final common pathway to like muscle hypertrophy and physical performance. And it's really difficult just like, and either anecdotally or on a patient by patient basis to draw confident conclusions from this. So this is something that would just require a larger scale research. And I do not feel like it would be appropriate for me to comment confidently on this. Perhaps that is to our own detriment in the medical podcasting influencer space. Whereas a lot of people would just spit out hot takes about this and say, well, here's what I observe. And then that becomes a source of, yeah, a lot of discussion, debate, interest, whatever, I would not claim confident conclusions there. I think there's a lot of potential plausible mechanisms of benefit, but I'm not sure. Yeah. Well, and it's not just about the ladies, but also there's some stuff on men here, particularly with respect to testosterone deficiency. Now we've talked at length about testosterone deficiency, low testosterone on this podcast, I expect we're going to talk about it more. We got a book that talking about it, like, I can't get away from it. It's not possible. But there's some tie in here between low testosterone, testosterone deficiency, and heart disease risk of major adverse cardiac events. Now we think that for most, low testosterone and again, more appropriately named testosterone deficiency is frequently a symptom of it, the larger picture of what's going on health wise, not necessarily the cause, most notably due to obesity. That's been the biggest change. People talk about like this secular decline in testosterone. It's like, yeah, mostly related to obesity. Now with respect to replacing somebody's testosterone and its effect on cardiovascular health, there's a lot of interesting fodder around that. But when you look at the actual data, it seems like it's mostly neutral with respect to heart attacks and major adverse cardiac events. There's some signal that there's like this maybe metabolic paradox that occurs at the level like with respect to lipids. So like LDL goes down triglycerides go down visceral fat goes down all these risk factors for heart disease, but HDL cholesterol slightly goes down to on with folks who are taking testosterone replacement therapy. And oh, by the way, there's no real outcome data like long term on this. How do you view, you know, testosterone replacement therapy in an individual testosterone deficiency with respect to like cardiovascular disease trajectory? Yeah, I think we should look at the this from a few different angles. One is well, the historical or more traditional perspective would be, oh, this significantly increases risk. And I think that we have increasing data that would challenge that position at this point that again, when it is appropriately used and monitored, that we do not have evidence that it is, you know, causing people to drop from heart attacks left and right, that is fortunately not the case. So that side of the equation or of the curve is reassuring to me. The other side being, well, if it is not causing harm, that's great. But how confident can we be that it is directly leading to benefit? And that is where I am a bit less confident. I think that we have a fair amount of evidence indicating some essentially like neutral effects. We have association type data that is suggestive of benefit, meaning that when they look at kind of an observational way, looking at those who are on testosterone therapy versus who are not, those who are on might have lower cardiovascular risk, but that is not nearly enough or strong enough data to conclude that the testosterone therapy itself is what is lowering their risk. There is still all sorts of both measured and unmeasured kind of biases in those types of data sets to where the people who are put on are fundamentally different from those who are not. And that could lead to a big part of those differences. So we do not yet have what I would call a strong perspective like randomized trial showing that like putting men with testosterone deficiency on testosterone therapy like directly leads to a reduction in their risk of having incident cardiovascular events or cardiovascular death. If we had that, that would be earth shattering. That would be a pretty big deal, but we do not have that at this point. So that caveats or is kind of how I couch the conversation, I think that to your point in the developed world, if we want to call it that, the vast majority of situations where we see testosterone deficiency tend to be in association with metabolic disease. And so we also see that addressing that metabolic disease by way of lifestyle measures through GLP-1 receptor agonists, through metabolic bariatric surgery, we tend to see improvements in blood testosterone levels when people lose weight through whatever means. Whether that is enough to fully resolve their testosterone deficiency is variable. Some people will normalize their testosterone levels, others will not. And for those who do not, who may have clinical symptoms that still are suggestive of testosterone deficiency, totally reasonable and in general, quite safe unless they have some other contraindication that hasn't been brought up yet, to try them on a course of testosterone therapy. And it does not necessarily need to be, oh, if I give you your first dose, you are on this for the rest of your life. It is actually okay to trial it, see if they get benefit. And if not, there is a reasonable early timeframe in which you can stop it and not lead to a significant risk of permanent HPG or testicular suppression. And so that's a pretty reasonable, safe approach to take if somebody has maximized the lifestyle levers. And if they've been able to lose as much weight as they're able to through those means or through pharmacologic means, or if maybe they do or don't want to go through metabolic surgery and you want to try it, I would not promote the use of it to say, oh, this is going to be used to lower your heart disease risk because I don't have a ton that I can hang my hat on there. But it can be something that, hey, this can improve your overall quality of life potentially in a similar way to how I have that conversation on menopausal hormone therapy. Any benefits on other stuff like cardiovascular risk are as yet unproven. And so that's kind of how I have that conversation. Yeah, no, well said. So for women, if you're a candidate for hormone therapy, the benefits for like vasomotor symptoms like flushing, bone density, and genital urinary syndrome of menopause likely outweigh the risks, big benefits there for those things. Other cardiovascular health and muscle preservation benefits remain hypothetical, mostly unproven, but interesting. You should consult with a clinician who's familiar with this and who can discuss your specific case. Both the Dr. Barocchis are available for this, link that in the show notes. For men, testosterone deficiency is often a symptom of underlying disease, most commonly obesity, as you mentioned. Addressing overall health may be sufficient to restore testosterone levels to normal. If testosterone replacement therapy TRT is indicated, it seems to improve risk factors related to heart disease, thereby theoretically lowering the risk of having a major cardiac event, though long term data isn't currently available. So TBD. Yeah, we'll see. All right. Before we end this podcast, I want to introduce you to something I thought about this. It's like, look, we're talking about longevity, doctors, Feigenbaum and Barocchi. If you were coming up with a series of markers that you would use for longevity, are you using biological clock, are you using telomere length, are you using high sensitivity, CRP? No, we are not. So I came up with the VITAL 5, the Barbo Medicine VITAL 5. Tell me what you think about this. So at the top, your favorite, blood pressure. Gotta measure blood pressure. It's gotta be within range. And I can't say lower is better because obviously that's not true. Yeah, not entirely true for blood pressure. But I would be very hesitant to be permissive of blood pressure that's elevated above 120 over 80 for most individuals, unless there was a specific reason to kind of permit it to go above that. I'd be pretty aggressive at treating it or managing it, mainly because we think there's like this dose dependent risk, not only how high is it, but for how long is it elevated. So the sooner we can get it under control and the better control that is, the better off the individual. What do you think about that? I think it's a reasonable take when viewed through the lens of this kind of like longevity promotion because there are certainly, you know, situations. I'm thinking about lots of the older folks that I see who are already multi-morbid and in the hospital or who are like, you know, on the very later stages of their life for whom this is like not at all a major consideration. And I'm much more permissive and I don't particularly care if their blood pressure is 130 or 140, sometimes even 150 because it's like, you know, if you're on hospice, then that is not something we, why are we even checking your blood pressure? So that context matters. But through the lens of longevity, if that's the lens we're taking here, then yeah, we know that risk starts to go up as that blood pressure starts to creep up over I think like 115 over 75 or so. That is not to say that necessarily, that necessarily pharmacologically lowering it back down to that level is always going to lead to benefit. But that is just kind of what we observe in a population wide kind of data set. So if you are one of these kind of like maximizers, then yeah, being stringent lower for longer to that threshold would be wiser. Yeah, so that's our first of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. Second thing we're talking about here is Apolipoprotein B or ApoB. I could have just put standard lipid panel, we say non HDL component, but you know, look, if I get to make the list. Yeah, sure. I'm gonna do a better job. So Apolipoprotein B, mainly because this represents your atherogenic load as far as a single test goes, you can do that. And it's similar to blood pressures, another dose dependent relationship between this risk factor and cardiovascular disease. The higher it is and the longer it is elevated for, we think that incurs more risk. Now this is a probability based thing. We think that if we lower it, generally speaking, lower is better unless you've developed a medical condition that lowers it for you, in which case that is more problematic. But generally speaking, lower is better. And this would be another part of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. What do you think about that? Also fair and similarly, the context of lowering matters and how aggressive you choose to be is a very individual decision in terms of maximizing lifestyle stuff versus the use of single agent pharmacology, multiple agent pharmacology, and should also be couched in the context of your overall risk. You could have also made an argument, of course, as many people may to include a lipoprotein little a here. I'm also in agreement with you of not including it here if we're just being limited to five. For several reasons, the ApoB particle burden in our bloodstream drastically outnumbers the number of lipoprotein little a particles that we have. The numbers are just so much higher of ApoB. And that is currently the focus of therapy. As we mentioned, I think on a recent podcast, we actually don't even have the randomized trials yet on lipoprotein little a lowering therapies. And so that remains an unproven thing. Once that is proven one way or the other, then we'll have more to say on that topic. But I agree with excluding that for now. All right. So we've got blood pressure, got ApoLipoprotein B first two, they're not in any particular order. But number three is VO2 max. I think, look, if you're going to go through the trouble of getting things measured and you want sort of actionable insights on what's next, I think having a VO2 max is a reasonable test to be done. Now, whether you do it in a lab, you know, hooked up to a metabolic cart, or you just do a one and a half mile run or the 12 minute Cooper test or whatever, all of those things would be fine to get you in the right ballpark to see, Hey, do I have an average VO2 max? Is it below average? Or is it nearing elite? And we would try to push people who are able to to get closer to elite because we think there are continued benefits above just doing the exercise, just meeting the guidelines, going beyond that and making sure that you're achieving the actual elite level fitness relative to health. As far as that's possible for a person, what do you think about that? Yeah, I would just pick a performance test if it were me, but I'm more of a pragmatist in this than somebody who wants very specific data points like a proper VO2 max measurement. And so I would say if you want to pick your performance test of choice among those you listed and try to PR that, then go for it. Sounds great. Yeah, it moves us on to our fourth factor here on the Barbell Medicine Vital 5, relative strength. If we've hemmed and hawed about absolute strength levels, like, do we care about your absolute grip strength? Maybe it's relative grip strength. Do we care about your absolute leg press one rep max? Or should it be relative like a body weight multiplier? And I think we just need a good sort of test for your musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems being integrated together in a functional way, some sort of functional test. I don't think a sit to stand test is going to be useful enough for a young healthy, you know, otherwise healthy population who's interested in longevity, right? And I further, I think that test just  generally speaking, is not as predictive as we'd want it to be, as far, with like, for an intervention point. It's not a great screening tool. It's like, you can identify folks who already have sarcopenia, for example, or poor function, but it's like, the change in very, maybe small changes over time, less noticeable until it becomes, you know, frank and avert, and at that point, you might not have even needed the test. So what do you think about this? Yeah, I think it's a late indicator. I mean, there are other examples of this in medicine. Like, ahemoglobin A1c, for example, is a late indicator of insulin resistance. By the time that that gets up over the threshold to diagnose diabetes, the insulin resistance has been present for over a decade in most people. And there are other potentially more sensitive metrics to catch this earlier on, that, you know, we'll probably discuss at another time, but this would be an example of that. By the time the CITDA stand is abnormal, yeah, that's a late stage indicator, compared with other potential tools. Yep, all right, so that's the first four of the Barbell Medicine Vital 5. And the last one, this may be surprising to you. But I needed something for body composition. Didn't feel like BMI fit the bill. I didn't think that waist circumference fit the bill. And it's like, can we just put these things together and have like a joint metric? Oh, that does exist. And we call it the body roundness index. Now look, the name needs work. To be clear, needs to be workshopped, change it, right? Not if anybody wants to have their body roundness index assessed. Might be more inflammatory than just, than BMI generally speaking, but like some decent data available on this, so far not as much as I'd want. But I think reasonably it tells people, are you at risk based on your, not only the amount of body fat that you're carrying, but where it's located. And that's really what I want here. Does that strike you as totally, like look, you should have picked something else. Is this stupid or anything? I think it's a reasonable argument. And you also preempted somebody who might have said, well, why don't I just go get my body fat percent tested? Because the distribution is something that you actually care about and want to have captured in your metric. But I think that's a reasonable choice. If you can get an MRI or a CT that can otherwise tell you how much visceral adipose tissue you have, and you were okay in the case of a CT with Billen being exposed to those receivers of radiation, more power to you. But I'm like, we could just do this based on measurements and get close enough. Yeah, no, I think that that's fair. The only thing that I see, you know, that you might want to think about some sort of assessment for which I'm not the expert to provide that would be some metric of like psychosocial health and functioning. How many friends do you have? Exactly. What was the last time you went outside? Yeah, look, we're starting o'clock, 60 seconds, name as many friends you could call right now, they pick up their phone. Yeah. And there's some sort of mark. Yeah, and interestingly, this is probably bad for business, but like the total cost on these tests, on APO, like for protein B is what, like, you know, maybe 75 bucks, 50 bucks. Not even, yeah. So yeah, we're gonna be selling our Barbo Medicine Vital 5 screening test. It's 50 bucks. Yeah, right. Get a blood pressure check, get the lipid check, do a performance test for strength and conditioning, and then body fat assessment. Pretty straightforward, that'll take you quite far in this game, and then have some friends. That's the hard part for some people. Wow, nailed it. Nailed it, love that. All right, well, that is a wrap on the Barbo Medicine Longevity podcast. At least part one, we'll see as stuff comes down the pike, I'm sure we'll get some feedback on this. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me today. Catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbo Medicine podcast. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water. I'm gonna go get some water.

=== FILE: Episode 377： GLP-1 Anti-Obesity Medications Update-Efficacy, Muscle Risk, and Future [RjZzDFj6ZIc].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're tackling a topic that has fundamentally changed the landscape of health, weight management, and chronic disease, the rise of anti-obesity medications, specifically GLP-1 receptor agonists. Now, whether you're an athlete, a health or fitness professional, or just someone trying to navigate your own health, you've heard the names, Ozampic, Wigowi, Monjaro, but the story has evolved rapidly and so has the data. And in this podcast, we'll provide an update on these medications. Are they just for weight loss, or do they also help with other medical conditions? And just what does the data say about efficacy, side effects, and the loss of muscle mass? To help us out, I have two of the best minds in the business. First, the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki, and obesity medicine expert, Dr. Spencer Ndolski. Welcome to the show, guys. Dr. Austin Baraki Am I the third? Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum I don't know. I just assumed that everybody that we ever have on the podcast is in the top 10. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Okay. I'll take top 10. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Dr. Justin Marchegiani I'll take what I can get honestly. Dr. Justin Marchegiani No, that's just– yeah, for sure. But, you know, people are like, are you– Jordan, do you– are you the most handsome? I'm like, no, no, no. This is an inside joke. And if you're a long-time listener of the show, you know who's the most handsome doctor in North America. But anyway, uh, Dr. Baraki, what's going on, man? Dr. Jordan Baraki Hey, I'm doing okay. I'm glad to have Spencer here to cover this topic. I'm attending on the wards in the hospital at the moment, but uh, able to sneak away and set some time aside for this conversation. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. And then if you guys don't know who Dr. Spencer Ndolski is, he's been on the show– I think you've been on our podcast a few times. We've been on your podcast. We actually met when I was in medical school in Virginia. I believe you were in residency at the same time. Yeah. Shout out to your– Dr. Justin Marchegiani Jordan drove up in his M4 while he's in med school. And I was like, Jesus Christ, I don't– I'm resident. I'm freaking poor. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Well, yeah, that barbell medicine money, you know. Dr. Justin Marchegiani That bar– that bar– that bar– big barbell. Dr. Justin Marchegiani Yeah. Uh, can you– before we pop into this, we do have a lot of questions and a lot of stuff to get to. But real quick, Spencer, can you give people just a rundown who may not be familiar with you, uh, what your background is and what you're doing now? Dr. Spencer Ndolski Yeah. Very quickly, NCAA athlete. I was a heavyweight wrestler, uh, UNC Chapel Hill. Actually, went to Michigan State to play football. I wrestled there as well. Ended up transferring, trying to do both. Realized I wasn't Bo Jackson. Had to pick one sport. Ended up going with wrestling. Then went to med school, went to Virginia College of Oceopathic Medicine at the time. That's what it was called. It's now Edward Viya, something– Virginia College. Went to family medicine residency at VCU in Newport News in Virginia. After residency, 2014, that's when I met you, uh, Jordan. Um, then I specialized into obesity medicine and lipidology. Really interested in innovating, uh, delivery care models. And so, you know, we all work together at a startup called SteadyMD. Very quickly started doing all sorts of other stuff and, uh, made a company called, uh, Sequence, which was bought by Weight Watchers. I then left Weight Watchers to recreate a new company, kind of an evolution, uh, online, cardio metabolic, um, direct care model practice, uh, called Vineyard. So that's the gist, really. And, you know, we have a podcast called Dox Who Lift. So we're all, we're all meat heads here. A lot of meat, uh, flowing around in this podcast. And then, uh, Dr. Baraki, you're actually starting with Vineyard. You're going to be taking some online patients starting in December, I believe. Is this the big, is this breaking news? This is breaking news. Yeah, I suppose it is breaking news. I mean, yeah. So Spencer and I have known each other for a while in the telemedicine space, worked together for, for a while in the past at SteadyMD. And I've been doing telemedicine, I guess since 2017 or so, um, maintained a panel of primary care patients, was doing essentially full scope primary care, metabolic, uh, you know, health management, cardiovascular risk management, things like that. So this is something that I've been doing for a while, but I think, uh, am intending to expand given that there's a lot of need out there for it. And Spencer is certainly a leader in this space and, and we're in this shared communal space of, uh, Dox Who, Who Lift who are interested in this topic. And so, um, yeah, felt like a natural next step to, uh, expand my existing practice in a way that, uh, is well supported by the organization that Spencer set up. And I'd be happy to have him speak a little bit about how he has it set up and, and, uh, you know, what, what we're doing there. Yeah. I'll now be not the strongest doctor at my, my own clinic. Yeah. So the, the concept is, so everybody knows about, we're going to talk about these GLP-1 receptor agonists and just the, the field of this, it's kind of cardiometabolic medicine. I would call it's not the old kind of obesity weight loss doctor, just focusing on the scale and pounds lost where, and if you, obviously people follow the barbell medicine, uh, discussions where talking about lipid management, probably a lot of blood pressure management, glycemic management, it's really this concept of cardiometabolic. So not just pounds loss, those translate into a lot of cardiometabolic improvements, but you really gotta think of this person and their contacts and their comorbidities. So like if they have cardiovascular disease, what if they have liver disease, all sorts of these different angles and it might, it's going to require, uh, smart people like Dr. Baraki to think through who are the right candidates for each of these types of medicines. So that's what we're doing. We really think of it as like a, uh, I hate to use the cliche term of holistic care, but really holistic cardiometabolic care that focuses on obesity, but really wraparound care online. That's great. Yeah. We'll put, uh, links to that. If you want to work with Dr. Baraki, if you want to check out Vineyard, we'll put that in the show notes. Let's get into this podcast. We'll start, uh, a little bit, I take a step back. So before we get to the drugs, Dr. Baraki, can you quickly explain what GLP-1 actually is and how it influences our body's function, especially appetite and like feeding behaviors? Yeah, that's a super huge question. And we're going to keep this discussion, you know, this part of it, the basic science side, I think a little bit high level. So GLP-1, you could think of as a hormone. These are little peptide molecules that our body secretes from one area of the body, end up traveling through the bloodstream and having effects on distant organs and sometimes on more nearby organs. And so GLP-1 or glucagon like peptide-1 is a hormone that is released from the cells of our intestines, usually after food ingestion. It has a few different effects on increasing the secretion of insulin from the pancreas, decreasing secretion of glucagon, slows down gastric emptying. But also we found that these receptors are pretty widely distributed throughout the body and all sorts of tissues and including in the brain. And this is part of how we think that they have a role on impacting and regulating things like appetite and feeding behaviors and things like that. But that they are so widely distributed leads to a lot of the other kind of potential benefits and some of the potential downsides that we'll end up talking about a little bit later. And I think that that's probably about as sufficient of a level of depth as we need for now. Anything important you would add there, Spencer? No, I think that's great. Have you ever talked about like the incretin effect? I think people might be interested in in that effect. So the incretin effect, what these drugs are, 50s or 60s, they injected glucose into people's veins versus having people ingest glucose. And like, I don't know, it makes sense that if you injected glucose straight to the veins, the glucose gets to your pancreas quicker. There's a bigger release of insulin as opposed to kind of this delayed increase in glucose in your serum. But what they found out is that people that drank the glucose had a larger insulin response area under the curve, total amount of insulin release. And so they call it this incretin effect. They didn't know what the hormones were. They some intestinal secretion of a hormone. So incretin, they were like, all right, incretin, then it wasn't until later, they found the various incretins out there. And so the GLP one was obviously the one that they started going towards for big pharma, some cool history there. But yeah, that's the only thing I would add. It's just a really interesting story of how they discovered this. Yeah, between that and Gila monsters, there's a really interesting background here, but for another podcast. So to Dr. Ndolsky, this is something I've seen you talk about. And people certainly are going to ask about it. You know, hear about natures, ozempic or like natural ways to boost this GLP one hormone that Dr. Baraki just described. Do we actually need drugs for this? Like, do we need pharmacological doses to actually get an effect here? Yeah, so this kind of goes back to the history of this whole figuring out for big pharma, how they how they tried to develop these drugs. We have an enzyme called DPP for dipeptyl peptidase for its breaks down our own natural incretins or in GLP one being one of them. So he breaks down within a minute or two. So even if we increase our own natural GLP one, it doesn't necessarily have the effect on appetite that we'd see with these receptor agonists. We do actually have an I don't know if you've talked about in the podcast drugs that inhibit our own DPP for so like citagliptin if people have heard of that or genuvia if you know the brand name. And those can increase our own natural GLP one by like two to three fold. But we see glycemic benefits like blood sugar benefits but not really weight loss or appetite differences. So we can just briefly chat about the Gila the Gila monster. I don't know if it's Gila or Gila. It's like a GIF or GIF. You know, it doesn't really matter. The little lizards out in the desert that they were studying them for there's a few reasons why but they thought it might have something to do with blood sugar and serendipitously they found that the venom was like similar to our own there was a part of it that was similar to our own GLP one but it was resistant to breaking down by our DPP for so I was like how the first drug by Eta came out or exanityde and later they've developed these GLP one receptor agonists to basically be resistant to our own G our own DPP for so nature's so nature's ozepic. I just did a video response video. There's an internal medicine doctor saying you got to eat more fiber and take probiotics to increase your own GLP one. That's how ozepic works and it's like no these drugs are their own agonists. They are analogs. They're synthetic versions that are not broken down by our own natural enzymes the DPP for and that's what makes them so powerful because then they can stick around longer and hit the receptors differently and actually get to the brain to have those appetite effects. Even if we increase our own natural GLP one there may be some glycemic benefit but we're not going to see much of an appetite difference. Yeah. Yeah. I've talked about a few times that like yeah you can increase your own GLP one a bunch of different ways. Unfortunately it's usually not large enough and it's not long enough lasting to have the same effects as these medications so anybody's trying to sell you a GLP one supplement you know or like a way to increase your own GLP one. Yeah you can just ignore them. That's basically a good takeaway there. All right back to Baraki. Now the science is moving quickly here so can you walk us briefly through the evolution of these medications from you know first short acting injectables. I think you had to do them twice a day to now we have agents that hit multiple receptors like tersepotide and even some new oral stuff that's coming down the pipeline. Can you talk about this? Yeah I think a brief overview will be helpful and it's been really interesting and fun. I think Dr. Nodolski probably shares this because the period during which we went through most of our medical training exactly overlapped with a lot of the development and dissemination and uptake of these medicines. Like I vividly remember being in the endocrine clinic the first time I ever heard of the name Ozympic and I didn't not have anywhere near the appreciation for what it was going to become or turn into at that moment in time. I was like oh this is just another new medicine like like any others whereas you know at the time we were still you know still prescribing these DPP4 inhibitors like Cetaglipton all the time even though I recognize like this doesn't really work that well but it's kind of what we have for this particular you know situation where the patient wants an oral pill or something like that. But anyway so yeah we had the original discovery of endogenous or like natural the GLP that our that our body makes on its own that only lasts again for a minute or two before it's broken down. And if I had to summarize the overall evolution of this class of medicines it's been kind of engineering the molecules to do a few different things. One to make them last longer so going from as you said Exanitide the first one was a twice a day injection which didn't even really work all that well extending it from twice a day to once a day with medicines like Leraglutide that came and was approved in 2010 whereas Exanitide was approved in 2005. I just point out the years so that people who question do we have enough experience with these medicines they have been around now for a couple decades. So longer duration of action from twice a day to once a day to once a week with medicines like Bigerion or Ozenpic, Dulaglutide and some of the most recent ones are all once a week in general and then we have upcoming ones in the pipeline that are going to be once a month potentially longer which will come with their own pros and cons to have drugs that act that long in duration. The other general trend that has happened with engineering of these peptides and these molecules is that they have increasing potency so they achieve more of the effects that we're looking for so more potency in terms of better weight loss effects and better glycemic effects in terms of blood sugar and diabetes control among others and then the last aspect of the engineering that's important is less undesirable side effects so better tolerability. So these medicines over the years going from that first generation back in 2005 to the next generation around 2010 of Leraglutide, Victosa, Saksenda, things like that to the 2018 Sumaglutide Ozenpic, Wegovi and then most recently drugs like Terzepotide, Zepbound for example and then most recently the ones that are kind of in the pipeline we're anticipating probably within the next year or so is going to be some of the oral medicines and then some of the even more potent what we'll call multi-agonists or triagonists like Rutatrutide however that is exactly going to be pronounced and all these just in general tend to gradually last longer, more potent good stuff and less bad stuff or better tolerability I would summarize as the evolution of these medicines over the past 20 years or so. Yeah that's a good summary and things are moving quickly and it almost seems like daily or weekly that oh look a new phase two or phase something trial comes out and this one is oral and you can only have to take it every so often which ultimately I think people are going to prefer more than the injections but cross that bridge when we come to it. Last thing before we start getting into some of the clinical data that has emerged recently on how effective these things are is this concept of food noise this is all over social media mainstream media has picked it up as well. Dr. Ndolsky can you talk about this concept of food noise like what is it and how does it relate to this topic? Yeah you know so it wasn't really it didn't really come out until these medicines so much there there was this concept of it and it's always kind of been a thing probably an evolutionary thing because we got to seek out food and think about food to survive but somewhere along the ways it's likely related to our dysregulated appetites and why we struggle with helping people lose weight and keep it off and people just thinking about food. Now when people are trying to articulate I've asked I don't know how many hundreds of patients about like how would you describe it and what they describe it's not a craving so cravings are usually something specific so like after dinner I really want some chocolate or potato chips or whatever something very specific it's not hunger everybody knows what hunger is you've gone all day and you're like oh my gosh my belly is kind of I need to put something into it cravings you know we want the dessert or whatever food noise is really just it's this relentless thinking thoughts about food so what they'll describe is that it's not it could be something healthy it could be something not healthy it just in general thinking about is there going to be enough to eat at dinner am I going to go get seconds is there going to be dessert afterwards and it's not something specific about it is is what about the next day it's all it's like and it's constant they could have just eaten and they still are thinking about food they could be just stuffed and like completely satiated but like still thinking about food and so this is a it's a completely different concept to people and they didn't realize they had it until they started taking the medicine like for example a patient said yeah I was able to enjoy my meal out with my wife because I wasn't thinking about whether my dinner was going to have enough in it I wasn't thinking about the bread that was not here yet it was just like they just actually enjoyed like they they could actually think and this is maybe why some people feel like they they have like less anxiety overall like they feel like they have more brain power to put towards things that matter more in their life as opposed to just always thinking about food really interesting concept and you know there's some new validated questionnaires but in general I just I just asked my patients like you think of I mean do you think about food when you're not hungry yes and and you just it's you can just ask them almost subjectively to talk about it yeah there's like a running joke in like like amongst bodybuilder like physique type focus but people that are like yeah look I'm eating one meal and then I'm actually thinking about the next meal and on some of it it is it's kind of humorous because like yeah we're we're losing weight and so it's almost like an expected part of the journey but but for them it's not it's it's transient like context specific because they're actively trying to lose weight to get very very lean for a show or something like that and then also it's not like they don't perseverate on this indefinitely whereas I do I do tend to agree that people who have this maybe aren't even aware that it is a separate entity that's going on until it's gone and they're like what was that that I was always I was always thinking about food one way or another and again not something specific or not like I'm actually hungry but just you know preoccupied yeah with food and then when it's gone they're like huh it's quiet the noise is gone it's it's it's really interesting so yeah that's just there's some there's a Travis Masterson there's a few of these uh uh psychiatry psychology neurobiologists kind of looking into the mechanisms of it all as it's been studied before for eating disorder type behavior kind of ruminating and thinking about food a lot but like it shouldn't happen in obesity constantly they yeah they have enough energy stores so to me it's something pathologic yeah yeah that's the thing you would expect that if a person has expanded energy stores they've they've developed excess body fat excess adiposity we'll call that obesity that the body would subsequently compensate by reducing energy intake and reducing food seeking behaviors and maybe even increasing activity to sort of maintain a normal and ideally healthy for reproductive fitness in the future level of body fat but that's not what seems to happen in the modern food environment so anyway we could do another podcast on that but let's transition to some of this clinical efficacy data we've talked about some of the basic science here and kind of how they work by targeting appetite and and and you know the transit of stuff through the the gut but how well do they work so this is to Dr. Baraki so Dr. Baraki, semaglotide or wigobi was studied in a series of studies known as the step and sustain trials those are just acronyms among others what were the main findings of these studies in terms of obesity yeah really encouraging findings overall without getting again too far into the weeds of the statistics and minor you know variations in data between the individual studies because each of these were kind of big collections of a series of studies run looking at slightly different outcomes along the way in general showed excellent effectiveness of these medicines good potency on average you'll hear a lot of kind of average weight loss data cited in these which is just one metric of efficacy that you can look at so on average about 15% weight loss when these drugs were you know studied over about 68 weeks or so compared to placebo at least in the earlier studies as well as the kind of what you would expect to see in terms of reductions in waist measurement reductions in blood pressure reductions in blood sugar hemoglobin A1c things like that again some variation around those numbers but that's kind of like in a commonly cited average weight loss figure but the other useful metric that I like to look at is proportions of patients who achieve the goals that we're looking for right so it's not just what's the average amount of weight loss because there's going to be a distribution around that but there's going to be a distribution around any intervention so if it's a weight loss intervention that's not related to the use of medicines just lifestyle diet exercise some other weight loss related medicine when we talk about what is deemed quote significant weight loss at least for health outcomes what used to be maybe around five percent in some situations you'll hear people quote a little bit higher maybe seven and a half percent for some medical conditions it's actually even more beneficial to get larger amounts of weight loss what proportion of patients are achieving that level of weight loss if they were to get placebo over that course of time compared with if they get the medicine over that course of time and when I recently pulled some of this data together across a variety of these semaglotide studies and looked at well what proportion of patients achieved greater than five percent weight loss when they were on placebo which was about 30 percent which is actually a little bit higher than I would expect and the higher than we tend to see in practice but about 86 percent achieved achieved it on the medicine and so we can see that it shifts dramatically like if you imagine a bell curve of people's responses to these interventions it shifts that whole curve of more people are achieving the target regardless of what the average amount of weight loss is but we're getting more people the outcome that we're looking for which then translates into a lot more downstream benefits on health which is the main thing that we're talking about here so that's my overall take on this maglotide data yeah not only like a big effect so like just in general greater amount of weight loss so people achieving that clinically significant weight loss that they go beyond that but a greater proportion of folks make it there too compared to lifestyle alone so yeah exactly big big effects here uh Spencer Terzeppetide or Zepp bound Manjaro has been studied in the surmount trials and what were the findings from these studies that you found most compelling and maybe you can contrast those to what we learned from about semaglotide from the previous data yeah somewhere around like 30 or so percent stronger in terms of uh total amount weight loss and you can see the responder data the categorical weight loss is just stronger as well so we see uh just over like a 20 or so 21 total body weight loss over the course of like 72 weeks and so they've done a head to head in one of these studies and showed like it's it's better a little bit better tolerated and anecdotally we noticed that as well so a stronger drug that's better tolerated just a better profile in general we didn't get into like the select trial with the cardiovascular disease reduction with semaglotide but like patients prefer Terzeppetide so we're thinking about 20 21 percent total body weight loss versus like the 15 or so percent total body weight loss with semaglotide high dose semaglotide actually they um we'll probably talk about they did a another study step up they did a very very high dose a week ove semaglotide they got a little bit more like 17 or 18 percent total body weight loss with that but in general even just the lower doses of even five milligrams of Terzeppetide which is the the second lowest dose gets about the same that you would see with 2.4 that the previously highest dose of we gov semaglotide better tolerated it's just um i'm not even paid by lily but yeah yeah i did a novo ad board and i just felt bad because i'm just like like the lily drugs better but like if you can make this cheaper so anyway i like Terzeppetide much better just the data is pretty clear on that yeah it does sound like Terzeppetide is generally superior to semaglotide all else being equal but dr baraki what is this what does the pipeline look like um our triple agonist like retractor tide uh gonna push this even further and like is that what we think the advantage is to Terzeppetide yeah i think so it's interesting to see because i think a general theme in in medicine in a lot of other areas is like when you see a drug or an intervention that has a lot more potency you might in generally expect okay well more effect in general might also come with more adverse effects in general and so seeing the effects of uh i guess bioengineering uh really smart people doing these things to these peptides to achieve simultaneously higher efficacy of the things we want with less adverse effects of the things we don't want is a really unique combination and speaks to the level of uh i don't know expertise and incentives that are at play for them to get this right and so that's what we're seeing with the newer agents like the one you just mentioned what what's being termed a quote unquote triple agonist because it hits multiple different receptors and again setting the details of that basic science aside hitting multiple receptors lets us target multiple different pathways to achieve the effects we want and add on additional beneficial things we've talked about this before for example when we recently did like our blood pressure update and i talked about how a lot of the time when i have a patient who's willing to do it i tend to use multiple lower dose medicines to get the bang for my buck from multiple meds with less side effect risk same thing with lipid or cholesterol lowering therapies using different medicines at lower doses that work in different ways because we know that hitting different pathways that all kind of converge on a similar outcome we can get a lot of effectiveness and by keeping the doses on the lower side if that's feasible for a given patient then we can mitigate and avoid most of the tolerability type of issues and so what we're seeing with these triple agonists and and the the data coming from reticitrite is that it is more potent achieving now into the mid 20s on average like 24 25 percent say weight loss starting to compete with metabolic bariatric surgery efficacy and then also having some seemingly you know unique aspects to it the glucagon receptor that it targets i've seen some discussion that it maybe like increases energy expenditure maybe helps to accelerate you know the resolution of fatty liver disease as a result of that maybe a little bit more lean lean mass sparing which is would be awesome as well and so again i think the level of expertise and incentives at getting this right are leading to just phenomenal development of these things to get all the things we want with less and less of the things we don't want coming out yeah yeah i found this the development pathway super interesting mainly because as you said the incentives it's like oh look if we can make this work better with less side effects yeah we're we're going to do it and it's like wait if big pharma was super evil like that doesn't necessarily seem like the the move there but uh yeah uh it would be interesting to see with if reda gets you know once it gets past all the phase three clinical trials and and there's some better dosing and and monitoring sort of profiles available for that but yeah it's out in the wild people are obviously like using these research chemicals which we're going to talk about shortly not not my favorite thing but we'll talk about that before we get there though dr. nodolsky because of this pipeline is being just kind of pushed to the to the nth degree there are some oral options coming down the the the pipeline and i suspect as i talked about earlier that people are going to prefer an oral option compared to you know self-ejecting or whatever what are you expecting from some of these oral options coming out yeah there are two one two of them that are going to come out uh six to twelve months from now they just actually just put on a fast track for or four or four glipron i used to say or four glipron but it's apparently or four glipron whatever it's a small molecule i suppose a big huge peptide that you have to inject or with the semaglutide um oral you have to put it in this special uh packaging that changes the ph of your stomach to be able to actually not break it down and absorb it which i'll talk about in a second more or for glipron is a small molecule so you can actually uh take it orally with food you don't have to worry about drinking tons of water or anything other medicines interfering that i know of and it has you know around like 10 11 percent total body weight loss we don't have all those cardiovascular uh trial data like we do with the oral semaglutide which i'll talk about in a second but you know somewhere around like a uh 10 11 percent total body weight loss there's it's supposed to be cheaper because it's easier to make because it's just a regular molecule instead of a peptide that needs all this special transporting and things like that so i'm kind of excited to see that because if it's cheaper and uh we'll talk about the prices and stuff about people trying to maintain their weight loss and having to come off the medicine because of price this might be something that would be of use there and hopefully they do cardiovascular i think they're going to do some cardiovascular trials to make sure uh as we've seen before other drugs where we thought we're going to be really good you know in the end there might have been some bad things happening that we just didn't know about and some of the oral drugs oral small molecule GLP-1 drugs that didn't come to the market they found some of these through the phase uh two phase one phase two  linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, linguparnutrile, phase 3 trials and even further post-market surveillance. So that's or for glip-ron, small molecule, not a large peptide. They can make it easier to make, cheaper to do. They have a ton of it stockpiled that they're ready to launch here. Again, I'm not getting paid by Lily, but it's excited. That's a Lily drug. The other one is high dose oral semagletyte. So we already have this available in the form of a type 2 diabetes branded drug, which is rite balsis. If anybody's heard of that, that's been out for quite a number of years now. Not super popular, popular though. It goes up to 14 milligrams. This new higher dose version, they're going to call, allegedly call it like oral we go via. That's what I've heard through the pipeline, which I don't know. Whatever oral we go via is what they're going to call it. So it's high dose. They actually studied it first at 50 milligrams. That's 50 milligrams. So it's about a 10-fold difference in absorption. I talked to a farm D on my podcast all about it. So they put in 50, but then they found that the 25 worked pretty well. And it's around somewhere around 14, 15% total body weight loss. It's not bad. Not a bad option. And they have that cardiovascular disease data that we can discuss here. But not a bad option, but it is. It has to be packaged in the snack package that allows your stomach to absorb it. Because otherwise, if you take an oral peptide, it gets degraded by your own stomach acids and won't be absorbed, it'll be broken up and everything. So they have to put it in this special thing. You have to take it with a tiny little bit of water in the morning, no food for a while. Now, the question of whether people would prefer it. So what's interesting is my patients almost love the weekly injection. It's because I thought the same thing. Maybe people would love taking just a pill. They love just because the needles are so small. They're teeny tiny and some people are afraid of needles and like, just do it and let's see what happens. And they're like, I didn't even feel anything. So a lot of patients actually love the weekly injection, but I don't know. We'll see. I think really what it comes down to is price. If you can make these things cheaper, that's going to take the cake. Whatever is the most powerful, but then the expense really takes the next. Yeah. Not that anybody's asking me to name drugs, but oral Zempik seems like a way better thing than oral Wigovic. Yeah, look, I'm available. If you guys need me to consult on drug naming, I'm here. All right. Well, look, we've talked about some of the efficacy very, very effective, but there are some cool other benefits to these medications that have been coming out. And I think there is some interesting stuff here. Not only with weight loss associated benefits and things like heart disease, a certain type of cancer and so on and so forth, but also weight independent effects. So like maybe these medications do something on their own to reduce the risk of either disease development or disease progression that's independent of weight loss. So Dr. Nolski, what have trials shown so far in terms of like the impact on heart health or cardiovascular health from these drugs? Yeah. So the semaglutide is the big one that we saw a couple of years ago. Actually, it's pretty much two years ago, the select trial, at least the top line results came out. I believe the full study came out, but select trial was Wigovic and those with a history of obesity and cardiovascular disease and not type two diabetes. So we've seen benefit in the past. My brother always talks about the leader trial with loraglutide. Now that was like, whatever it was, 10 years ago. So that was the first drug to show cardiovascular benefit and those with type two diabetes at high risk, cardiovascular disease. This was the first one that I know of that people did not have type two diabetes, but had a history baseline cardiovascular disease. And what they showed is a reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events. And they've done further analysis to show like, it doesn't look like it's mostly, maybe at least two thirds of it's unrelated or independent of the weight loss. And when you look back at studies, we thought that like around a 10% total body weight loss, whether it's from lifestyle, bariatric surgery would lead to reductions in cardiovascular events. So that's kind of what they were thinking. But now with some of these other drugs, like they've had older GLP one receptor agonists, alboglutide was one of them. There was a, that was for type two diabetes, but people didn't lose any weight, but they still improved their cardiovascular event reduction, like there was improvement there. So there are receptors all over the myocardium, there are receptors in our endothelial tissue, there's, there's receptors changes in our immune system. Something's going on with this GLP one receptor agonism that goes beyond just the weight loss. Of course, we're going to see blood pressure improvements, we're going to see lipid improvements and just overall mass in general, which may be a less strain on the heart. But like there's something else going on just from taking a GLP one receptor agonist. So for the heart, I think that's what's really exciting. We're, we're waiting on. There's appetite data. There's a terseptide study similar, but they're actually doing in like primary prevention as well. I don't know. So I'm sure you've all talked about differences between primary and secondary prevention. So primary would be preventing that first heart attack, secondary is somebody's head heart attack or heart event and you're preventing another one. So the, the terseptide, the surmount MMO they're looking at like, it's going to be really interesting. I think it's going to be positive though and good. Yeah. No, this is just a brief aside. You're hearing Dr. Baraki, Dr. Ndolsky and sometimes myself talk about all these various studies that are very specific to a particular intervention in this case of medication in a particular population to come up with a particular outcome to see if that changes contrast this to mechanistic data in exercise science where it's like, look, if you, you know, fast, then your growth hormone level goes up. Some percentage and people are like, yeah, that'll probably lead to more muscle mass. And it's like, do you know how many steps you've skipped in the middle to get to that point? And in medical research, particularly in, in agents that have a lot of evidence and data behind them, you can feel quite confident in saying, look, if you are in this population, you have a high probability of seeing some level of this effect and it's, you know, relatively well characterized, which I find very reassuring just to like, you know, if you're, if you're advising somebody on taking these medications or to not take these medications or other medications that can all be useful there compared to it's, it's mostly vibes. Like we have like a mechanistic like plausibility, but we don't have like good outcome data or the outcome data we do have is not good. In that case, you're like, I don't even know why we're talking about this, but just a brief aside anyway. Also, I see this on, on threads, there was just, they were talking about this, a very quick tangent. People do this with drugs and doctors. I think it's because they don't understand study design and how to design trials to look at outcomes. So menopausal hormonal therapy, they're saying reduces cardiovascular events. It's like, it's a whole thing. We could do a whole podcast on that. And so Austin and I were going on threads. I saw, I noticed he jumped in and it's just, but it's not just exercise science. It's unfortunately a lot of other places too. Austin and I have, I think turned into Clippy from Microsoft Word, the little guy. So we're like, hi there. What do you think the best direct human evidence is to show that this actually, you know, I enjoy it. I show up in my feed and I always like it because it's always so funny. I'm always like, Oh my gosh. Yeah. You and your brother are, we like, we like seeing your likes because it makes us feel good about what we're doing. So to Austin, you know, what about other major organ diseases like that of the kidney and that of the liver? I know there's evidence coming out here. So what do we know on that front with respect to these anti obesity medications? Yeah. Several years back, there were just a broad policy about medicines that were being looked at for use in diabetes that they were essentially all being required to look at cardiovascular outcomes, these things like heart attacks and strokes and things like that. But interestingly, we're also accumulating evidence in other very, very common organ system diseases. Obviously, as I mentioned, I'm sitting here speaking to you from the hospital where I have a ward full of patients with all of these things, be it cardiovascular issues, heart attack and heart failure, which have been looked at with these medicines as well as various levels, degrees of chronic kidney disease all the way up to dialysis patients. And then my least favorite and the most horrific is advanced liver disease, which is something that we see more and more of these days. So when I went through training, I saw boatloads of, for example, hepatitis C related cirrhosis. Now that we can cure that condition, seeing less and less of that, but much more fatty liver disease that has progressed to steatohepatitis and then cirrhosis as a result and then the complications of that. And so when this has been examined so far, for example, in the flow trial, looked at GLP one agonist and what they called kind of this kidney events to borrow a term from the cardiovascular literature, things like progression of chronic kidney disease or death related to kidney related causes. These medicines are showing benefit in that realm. And then similarly, when we look at, for example, the rates of fatty liver disease or resolution or improvement in fatty liver disease, improvement in inflammatory markers around fatty liver disease, which would all lead to a reduction in the risk of progression to cirrhosis and all of those really horrific complications that I have the pleasure of dealing with in the hospital, the more potent these medicines get, the more benefit we're seeing on fatty liver disease. And that's what I mentioned earlier. The interesting kind of maybe unique aspect of RETA that you mentioned as one that can maybe increase some energy expenditure, maybe has some unique benefits on the liver. Whether or not that ends up panning out and being fully accurate, just a sheer amount of weight loss that these things can induce. Once you get well beyond 7.5 to 10% percent of weight loss, we can see essentially curing of fatty liver disease, which would be great to reduce the burden of chronic liver disease worldwide. So not only heart, but also kidney and liver, like three of the major chronic organ system type of conditions that are often also comorbid. They have led to this development of a new term that they're calling CKM syndrome or cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome that kind of encompasses all of these things. People having heart disease and liver disease from fatty liver and kidney disease as very frequently overlapping in patients. And we have increasingly potent and increasingly well tolerated agents in these in this medication classes that can somehow simultaneously benefit all of them. Not only because they have a shared mechanism, but also because of some of these weight independent effects that Spencer alluded to earlier. Yeah, maybe we can rebrand CKM as type three diabetes so people don't inadvertently refer to that as like dementia, which is definitively not the case. That's another like quack watch red flag. If somebody calls dementia of any kind type three diabetes, just you just block, just block and move on. Yes, right. Before before moving on to some of the side effects we're going to talk about, there is another areas of emerging evidence coming out for everything from like sleep apnea, to addiction, some forms of cancer, so on and so forth. So I'll have both of you weigh in on this. Start with you Spencer. What are some of these areas, these other areas where these medications could be effective based on emerging evidence? Yeah, so obstructive sleep apnea is pretty well established. There's a surmount OSA trial. That's why they've actually made it FDA approved for those with obesity and obstructive sleep apnea. Medicare even allows for it. We see sometimes a resolution in obstructive sleep apnea. People stop needing their CPAPs. It's not all the time. Weight loss doesn't always improve obstructive sleep apnea or resolve it as there can be some anatomical differences. But when you start getting that 10, 15% total body weight loss, we start seeing reductions in the apnic events from obstructive sleep apnea. So pretty good data there. There's another drug called Q-Symia that actually it's not FDA approved for, but it's a fentramine to a pyramid combo. So we do know that a lot of weight loss can result in improvements in obstructive sleep apnea. I do believe most of that is weight dependent. However, some argue there may be some other weight independent effects. It would be hard to tease that out exactly, but kind of interesting there. From addiction, so there is a there's a new another lily. I swear I'm not getting paid by lily, but they you know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, figs make scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus their antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers. They make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet. And they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an ice box. And with the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because figs just dropped a ton of new limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare, if you want to shop for a loved one who is figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at wear figs.com with the code figs RX. That's where figs.com code figs RX. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year is over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards barbomethson coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit, by the way, your accountant will approve and your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not right away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long term health and performance instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to barbomethson.com, choose your plan and at checkout, select flex pay with HSA, FSA, because those dollars were meant to make you healthier and that's exactly what we do. Barbal medicine, evidence based training that pays off, literally. We should get video. You know, honestly, I'm going to text them after this because I have a direct line. Someone's like, look, you guys like you guys got to start putting me on your ad boards. We'll see what happens there. But they're, they're starting to trying to find drugs that are made for alcohol cessation. I had a so funny, so stupid, but I had a viral tick tock a few years ago when I started using a lot of manjarro is it was the type tube diabetes version of Terz epitide. When that first came out, I was using a lot of it off label and people right away were like, wow, this is so weird. I don't really want to drink alcohol. And I was like, really? So I actually published some retrospective data of all of the changes in alcohol intake from our patient population of like tens of thousands of patients kind of kind of cool to see that. So I believe that we're going to see, we're going to see other addictive like behaviors people not biting their nails anymore, maybe even some gambling sex addiction type of stuff, opioid addiction type of things that the drugs have a strong response in the reward center of our brains. And really stuff. So I think we're going to see addictive like behavior improvements there. Other things, so anti inflammatory things. So psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, some of my patients notice, wow, I was on my biologic and it kind of helped me with my psoriatic arthritis, but it wasn't until I started Terz epitide. Again, this is anecdotal. But when you go to Eli Lilly's research page of what they're looking at the trials are doing, they are looking into this. So big farm is not stupid. They're not going to pay good Gillian's amount of dollars to look into some silly anecdote. They're clearly seeing the signal too. So I think we're going to see a lot of really interesting stuff there. I see gynecological improvements. People start having normalized menstrual cycles. There's GLP one receptors on the uterus ovaries and in the hypothalamic pituitary region. I don't know. There's some interesting stuff. So yeah, some of the most interesting stuff I've seen come out has to do with like cancer risk reduction. And it almost seems like, you know, not to get too technical or jargony, you know, pleotropic effects of these medications, they just affecting multiple different areas. Look, if there's a receptor there or like something that these things combine to it seems to have a decent effect. Dr. Baraki, what's your take on this like cancer risk reduction? What's up with that? Yeah, I think that it's really difficult to study in the way it has been studied so far. You know, cancer is a very heterogeneous disease. There's so many different types of cancers they develop by way of so many different types of exposures and things like that. So like looking at acute leukemia, for example, and comparing that to, you know, estrogen sensitive breast cancer, they're like completely different pathologies. And so lumping these things into big buckets and looking at it in an observational way, which also lumps in a whole lot of other, you know, variables that are not being equally distributed in a randomized trial makes it kind of tricky. I find it plausible that there could be some impact on cancer incidents, particularly among the adiposity associated cancers and things like that. But that's something that I would want, I think, higher quality data to try to tease apart to what Spencer mentioned earlier. We already have, for example, some of that insleep apnea. We already have that in osteoarthritis. We're looking or expecting that hopefully coming soon in some of the addiction space. And, you know, I have some concerns around, you know, judicious use of those medicines in the addiction space knowing that, hey, well, a lot of the patients that I see, because I see tons of alcohol related issues in the hospital setting, and I have a few, as we speak, who are not very well nourished, for example. And so then what's going to be the impact? They're not very well muscled. They're not very well nourished. They don't have, you know, high quality diets. They're not exercising. If I induce 20% weight loss in this person whose diet is comprised mostly of alcohol, what's the impact going to be? So there's some thoughts and can sort, which is the lesser harm there, right? And in general, I'm trying to get people to drink less. And I will tend to accept a fair amount of risk in other ways because alcohol is like the most harmful thing that they might be doing. So there are going to be a lot of considerations around all of these areas. I share some of his observations around PCOS. There's also conversations around like maybe neuro protection, dementia risk, things like that, that will also be super interesting because, you know, we've seen cardiovascular disease remains the number one killer, but on a per capita basis, rates of death from cardiovascular disease can have been declining for decades now. We're making a lot of progress there with all the tools that we have at our disposal. Now we seem to have one that's going to be helpful for obesity and the obesity associated comorbidities. The longer we live without dying of things like cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or liver disease, the longer our lifespans extend, it's going to be more and more cancer and more and more neuro degenerative disease. And so if these have a favorable impact on those things, that would be a win on those fronts as well. So super interested to see how it plays out. Yeah, what I'm hearing you say is that if we just take terzepetide or some aglutide and you stack it with creatine, effectively you're going to live forever. 10 grams still. Yeah, no, it's 30 grams. 30 grams. More grams. More grams. All the grams. All the yeah, so many grams. All right, well, let's transition to some of the side effects because with any effective medication, there are no biological free lunches here. There are risks and side effects. So let's discuss some of the common side effects and some of the rare but serious ones. So Spencer, what are the most frequent side effects that people should be prepared for? And how do you go about dealing with them in your practice? Yeah, by far number one is nausea. Very common. We saw this very early on with exanthetide or bietta and all the GLP when receptor agonists. In fact, many of the haters would say, look, people just lose weight because they're nauseous all the time and thrown up, which is plausible, I suppose. If people are, you know, you get sick from a GI bug and you don't want to eat, you lose some weight. And if you feel like that all the time, that can make sense. But when you look at the data, it's pretty clear that the nausea is the highest in the beginning and the longer you've on the medicine, it tends to go away for pretty much everybody. For most people, it's mild to moderate at first. Very once in a while, it's more moderate to severe where you have to intervene with an anti-nausea medicine. We try to minimize it with our diet. I have dietitians and we try to promote kind of a lower fat diet. Now there's reasons why this may be higher fat. You're so like chips, fries, pizza burgers, wings, that type of thing may be increasing that knowledge in the beginning. It could be because the gastric emptying is slowing. So you put more fat in the gut and then it's more having an increase in other things like CCK and other hormones that from the fat intake that can also increase nausea. So potentially, I don't know what, but lower fat diets tend to help minimize this and maybe smaller, maybe more frequent meals. Not the booster metabolism or anything like that, but to help with the nausea. And you don't have to do that long term. It's again, the nausea is high in the beginning. When you look at the trial data, it doesn't matter what trial it is, some aglutide, trazebityde, they show the trial data. It's all picked up in the beginning. And then as the trial goes on, the nausea goes down. Sometimes we have to do Zofran or on Dancitron to help with the nausea. In general, though, most people don't have to do that. So that's, that's number one. I do see a lot of constipation from unlike nausea, it's constant. So you have to get in front of it early. Lots of fiber, lots of fluid, physical activity, the very standard things we do for constipation. Sometimes we add a laxative and or add some fiber supplements and things like that. But constipation is pretty common. Try to get in front of it to minimize that. Reflex, if you're slowing down the gastric emptying in your stomach, there's more of a chance for food and stuff to come back up to esophagus cause reflux. We do see that. So people with a history of reflux, we're like, all right, we got to be careful here, you might get some worsening. Don't stop your mapers or whatever right now. Sometimes they need to add it back in for a little bit. Hopefully over time that improves and generally we see that improve because that gastric emptying is higher in the beginning and then wanes or even goes down a lot at the end of or while you're on the drug longer. We do see diarrhea, usually self limited. Generally, we try to help people bulk up their stools if happy, but it's usually self limited. Sometimes I do pepto, sometimes I do amodium. Generally, something that goes away over time. We see fatigue. A lot of people thought, oh, yeah, you're not eating, you're going to be tired or something about the drug and this likely has to do with the brain effects of the drug, the receptor agonism in the drug. We're talking about the dopamine where people feel like not as addictive, but sometimes it's got a pretty strong effect up there. Almost they feel like like an anhedonia, like just kind of like they feel unmotivated and tired. That happens. Sometimes you got to adjust the dose. Sometimes it's just at the beginning. The fatigue generally goes away by itself though. A lot of people argue over the cause of it, but it's likely in the brain. Some of it maybe because you're not eating as much, but you'll feel it like a couple days after your shot and then it goes away after a few more days. Kind of interesting. Worse side effects, gallstones probably. We see that because of weight loss likely. There may be an effect of GLP-1 on the actual gallbladder and changes in how it's moving. We can see gallstones precipitate, but we see that with any type of weight loss, bariatric surgery. From that, we can see the colostitis or gallbladder attacks rarely, pancreatitis. When you compare placebo to the active drug and these big huge trials, they put them together in a meta-analysis, there doesn't seem to be a statistical difference between the drug and a placebo. Patients like, yeah, it causes pancreatitis. It's not different from placebo. Those are the common things. I don't know if you want to hit, Austin wants to talk about the black box warning of thyroid cancer and all the scary things people talk about, but those are the common things. Yeah, I was going to echo much of what you said. The pancreatitis one is interesting for several reasons because pancreatitis is a relatively common condition. It's something that also just happens to people sometimes. In general, it happens related to alcohol use pretty often. It can happen related to gallstone related causes very often as well. I see it very regularly in the hospital setting. Given that there's a relatively high what we'll call base rate of people experiencing pancreatitis, that also increases the risk of like, well, also there's a high base rate of people getting put on these medicines. There's going to be a scenario where somebody gets put on one of these medicines and because they were just existing, they were going to get pancreatitis anyway. Humans, what we do in our brains is we tend to observe patterns and assume causation between them. Well, I started this medicine and afterwards I got pancreatitis, so it must be that one caused the other. That is a reasonable hypothesis to have, but that's also why we benefit from having controlled trials. That's where this interesting observation comes from in the controlled trials that when we compare people on drug versus on placebo, we don't actually see a significant difference in that pancreatitis risk, even though there is a higher risk of developing gallstones relating to the rapid weight loss. It's like all the signs you would expect there to be a signal, but it doesn't actually lead to the outcome that you would expect, which is, again, why we benefit from these kind of studies and why all three of us get in arguments on threads all the time because people make arguments based on vibes or observations or just assuming patterns exist, whereas when we actually control the data to account for our own flawed assumptions and tendency to draw patterns where none might exist, we actually can get to the truth of the matter. So pancreatitis ends up being something that I don't tend to routinely counsel on because what are you going to do aside from, well, I already advised that you probably shouldn't be drinking very much. We're advising weight loss regardless here, and so there's a risk of gallstone development with rapid weight loss no matter how we go about it, and that's something that we can be attentive to and intervene on if we need to. So that's just an interesting aspect of the data that all the things that you might observe or anecdotally hear or expect based on some of these things don't actually tend to pan out the way that we thought. Yeah, and just lastly, before we get into some of the body composition and performance stuff, Dr. Ndolski, there's been some concern about this non-arturidic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy or NAION, this irreversible eye condition causes partial or complete vision loss in one or both eyes. And this is a major lawsuit against a Novo notice right now, like for that, you see that all over the place. There's a $2 billion lawsuit against the manufacturers because these drugs, who they don't want you to know, they're taking your vision. Does any merit to that? Yeah, notice it's not against Eli Lilly. I'm kidding. Someone from those pharmacies, they're going to come get me. I'm actually friends with a lot of those people. And they're always switching teams all the time. So it doesn't really matter. But it is true. There are some lawsuits out there. It's a rare risk. We had my buddy, an ophthalmologist, retinose specialist on. There was a JAMA article last year that looked at a group of people on somaglutide with type 2 diabetes that showed a maybe a small, maybe one in like 10,000 people increased risk of people on the medicine, maybe an increased risk of this type of blindness. But then more recently this year in Journal of Ophthalmology, they showed maybe a trend towards a decreased risk, at least not statistically significant, just no statistical significant risk compared to people not taking the medicine in a similar population. So if it is a risk and what my friend told me is that we see it from people's blood pressure going down and usually in the middle of the night. I could see it where the medicine, it's just so powerful and people are still on their blood pressure medicine, they may have sleep apnea where they're going apnoic and not getting as much blood flow and oxygen into their blood where there may be maybe there's some sort of risk there. But like the most recent data doesn't show the signal. If it is there, it's extremely rare. It hasn't been seen in any of the weight loss data. It's only in these patients with type 2 diabetes where maybe there's an increased risk anyway. I'm not super concerned, but patients are concerned. I wouldn't want to go blind. So we try to talk about these, try to talk about the data. I would just say, look, the signal is not there in the most recent analysis.  maglutide only, and those with type 2 diabetes. Potentially, maybe there's some plausibility there, but I would just, if it's there, it's extremely rare. Yeah, all right. I feel satisfied there. We can now move on to some of the other risks and potential side effects that would maybe be pertinent to our listenership, because we're talking about gains, talking about body composition and performance. So, Austin, a lot of people talk about the potential risk of losing all of your muscle when you go on these agents. Maybe speak more broadly about, well, look, why is losing lean body mass a problem with weight loss in general, and then what is the long-term consequence of that for health and performance? Yeah, before we get into that, I do think it's worth pointing out, because a lot of these terms can get conflated and definitions can get baked into one another in ways where one audience might hear and interpret this term lean body mass in one way, where it's not necessarily being intended in that exact way. Body composition science is complicated, and I know Spencer will get into this a little bit as well, but what does lean body mass mean? What does fat-free mass mean? What does muscle mass mean? All these things have very specific definitions, and so it's important to be clear on what you're talking about. So the haters, as Spencer referred them, described them earlier, use this kind of terminology, and they seem to imply that these drugs have a unique effect on reducing or impairing your muscle mass in particular. Potentially baking in bone into that as well, and that's a strong claim that would require direct evidence showing that when these medicines are used, that there is a substantially greater degree of specifically muscle mass and or bone mass compared with equivalent amounts of weight loss by other means. When we look at this, we'll get into the specifics of what's observed, but it is a valid concern, just to address your question directly, that if people are losing significant amounts of muscle mass and bone mass, yeah, I would have some concerns about that. I see the end stages of frailty, catechia, people who have severe sarcopenia, osteopenia, osteoporosis, people who fall, they lose their physical independence, they have fractures, they need to go to nursing homes, things like that. I've been seeing that my entire medical career so far in the hospital setting, and it's not like I have seen, for example, over the course of the past decade, oh, gosh, I'm admitting these people left and right for GLP-1 induced osteosarcopenia, and they're all needing to go to nursing homes because they can't stand up out of a chair anymore. And so that's kind of where a strong claim is gonna need some strong evidence to support it, or we need to look at it more directly. So those are some of the reasons why we care about lean body mass, is that risk of long-term musculoskeletal health, physical function, independence, things like that. And so that would be the question, is do we see higher rates of those things specifically being impaired from the use of these medicines compared with, if you lost 15%, 20%, 25%, whatever amount of weight loss through diet, or through metabolic bariatric surgery, do you see that more? Do you see it less? Does it seem to be about the same? Are there ways, if it's a real thing, can we mitigate it? And what exactly are we talking about? Is it muscle? Is it bone? Is it just lean body mass, which includes body water, all sorts of other tissue compartments and things like that, organ mass, stuff like that. So that's kind of my broad take on it. Yeah, just to summarize for the listenership, the claim is, by again, the haters, is that these particular drugs, anti-obesity medications at large, have a unique effect on the skeletal muscle tissue that results in more proportional muscle loss per unit weight loss. And what's widely quoted in literature for just like diet-induced weight loss is that about 75% of the weight you lose is gonna be fat mass and 25% is gonna be not fat mass. And some of that is gonna be actual skeletal muscle fibers, but to Austin's point, some of it's just gonna be other things that aren't muscle, but are also not fat. And so literature then would show you that per pound people lose when they take these medications that more than 25% would be not fat mass that people were losing. So the question to you, Dr. Ndolski, is what do you think about the actual risk of losing skeletal muscle mass in relationship to these drugs? Again, there's been a problem that's been a lot of concern over this on social media, especially in the fitness space. Is this a real risk? Like is that, is this real? Yeah, some history around it really is the Peter Tia, which my brother and I call our podcast, the Peter Tia Hater Podcast, in not because he's generally okay, it's just some hyperbolic statements. He was on the Megan Kelly show a couple of years ago and said that his patient got fatter, quote, fatter on this medicine. They lost more muscle than they did fat. It's kind of interesting, nice anecdote there. But then he has pulled up that the step trials, there was a subgroup analysis, they did a subgroup DEXA of some of these patients that use semaglutide in the step trials, which was the obesity trials with semaglutide, high dose semaglutide. And it looked like somewhere around 38 or 39% fat-free mass loss. So it's kind of like, well, that is more than we'd expect. But Dr. Brachy said, fat-free mass loss isn't necessarily muscle. So when you look at a DEXA scan, and this is why I have a chief science officer, Grant Tinsley, he's literally a body composition expert. He would talk circles around me in terms of how to look at these different compartment models where they look at body composition, because a DEXA scan, they're like, oh yeah, you got your body fat percentage there, but it's because it looks at fat-free mass and fat mass. And so like, pretty much everything that's not fat mass, it's like, oh, they lost this much fat-free mass. But a lot of that includes glycogen. Is the interesting thing when they did these same subgroup analysis in the surmount data, the terzapentide data, it was around 25%. So a stronger drug that resulted in more weight loss actually resulted in about what we would expect amount of fat-free mass loss, which we assume if we're just making assumptions has a similar composition of that fat-free mass loss with muscle. So similar to what we'd see with just dieting alone or bariatric surgery alone. So then the claim would have to be something about somaglotide specifically is extra catabolic beyond its ability to help people lose weight beyond this calorie deficit. And there's nothing biologically plausible to make that accurate. What I personally think is that there's some sort of fluid shift because of the GLP-1 receptors we've, Dr. Baraki talked about the kidneys and the flow trial. I don't know if there's some diuresis effect, there's some fluid shifting, but it's very possible what looks like an increased fat-free mass loss is literally glycogen or fluid changes. That's what I think, because otherwise it doesn't really make sense. And having said that, we are doing studies in our online clinic. So we partnered with Dexafit, Dr. Tinsley is doing all this where he actually looks at lean soft tissue. So trying to nail it down to closer to the muscle tissue. And we did a case series, but we have a whole cohort going on. We don't have the data from that yet. And it looks like if you just lift some weights and we're not talking about like barbell medicine style, you're freaking obsessed with it. Even if you're just kind of like doing like basic two days a week of like what would be recommended and eating sufficient amounts of protein, you're not loading up your each plate with protein and eating a gram per pound of body weight. We're talking like one to 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight, even somewhere around there with just a couple to two to three days a week of resistance trading full body or splits. You pretty much mitigate it all or minimize it all. So I'm not worried. I think it's good that it's brought this whole thing to the forefront, but I think the whole concern is overblown. And I think it's just a reason for what we call weight stigma where it's like, no, we don't want people to lose weight. They reduce their risk of heart attacks. They have less liver disease and kidney disease and fewer strokes, but oh my God, they lost some extra fat free mass in there. So watch out, these drugs are bad. I think it's just people are looking for a smoking gun to say, so you can't get out of the hard work. That's my probably my bias opinion, but just from a clinical standpoint, I'm not concerned. I want people to lift weights and eat protein, but like I'm not concerned if like they don't and they lose this amount of fat free mass percentage wise. Yeah, yeah, two additional points. If you actually look at that subgroup analysis in the STEP trial and you look at the placebo group who was just doing lifestyle stuff alone, they also lost more proportional lean mass than you'd expect. So to me, it almost is like, perhaps there's an artifact of the measurement technique, or at least that's a positive possibility, but even the latest trial, the semilean study where they had folks on max dose semaglutide and then they did dexa scans on all these people. It wasn't 75, 25. It was 80, 20. I was like, ooh, that's interesting. Is there a muscle preservation effect perhaps even? And there's some animal models to support that. I don't think that's true to me. That seems like within the realm of like what's expected, but I just find these concerns about losing so much muscle mass that now you're there, you have sarcopenia because of reduced muscle function from all that muscle loss due to these medications. That seems like an overblown risk compared to the potential benefits everywhere else across the board. Yes, if you have somebody where you have concerns about frailty initially, they're probably not a great candidate for a GLP-1 or other anti-obesity medication, although that does get a little more tricky when you talk about like sarcopenic obesity because that was also assessed in the semilean study where they, 49% of the starting population had sarcopenia as diagnosed by, I think it was hand grip strength and the appendicular skeletal muscle mass. And then at the end of the year, only 33% had it. So it seemed like even though they lost maybe some lean mass, their actual function or muscle quality improved. So I don't know, it seems pretty interesting to me. Yeah, this is just not fundamentally a major concern that I have, I agree with Spencer's take in general and just look at the major outcomes that we care about. And if somebody says, well, the outcome that I care about is my lean mass and I don't actually care about cardiovascular risk and kidney risk and fatty liver risk and diabetes risk and I'm unconcerned with the amount of fat mass the person carries. This is my like myopic focus is just on lean mass. Okay, don't take the drug. Like nobody's worse than I can make it. But every other area of health and like what we'll call hard outcomes, things that we really care about the most seem to be benefited. And if we were seeing, you know, because we know that sarcopenia, for example, on osteopenia and osteoporosis, they increase the risk of certain things. And so if those risks panned out, we would expect to see those signals in the data. I would expect to see, oh gosh, we're seeing way more hip fractures in these patients or we're seeing way more falls or we're seeing, you know, all sorts of things. If that doesn't show up, then this is an unsupp, this remains in the realm of hypothesis, but not something that's gonna impact my clinical decision making. So yeah, I agree. It doesn't take a ton of training and it doesn't actually take a ton of protein to mitigate lean mass loss to the extent it's gonna happen here, especially in under trained or insufficiently active people at the start. And the training is the thing that I emphasize even more than the protein. Like if somebody is willing to do a bit of exercise, I'm gonna put even, not that I'm gonna put less emphasis on protein, but it's not my major lever that I care about, getting people active in general, not just for the lean mass, but for all sorts of other health benefits is my strongest, heaviest emphasis for people. And always has been, even before these drugs ever existed. Yeah, if you looked at an equalizer, like you got a seven band equalizer, and these are all the variables that affect like the proportion of mass compartments that are lost. And so you have things like sleep, protein intake, you have these medication use, whatever. All well and good, all can certainly affect that, but exercise, specifically resistance training is the volume knob. Like that is the main controller here. And so without resistance training, all of these other things are, the effects are so much smaller. And so eventually we're gonna get a study where people are using these agents and actually lifting weights, like no shit, they're actually lifting weights. And then we're gonna see the results. I suspect they'll be very positive. And then at that point, we should follow up with the Tia, with some other folks who've expressed strong concerns about this and be like, what now? There's a study that's, they presented it's not published, it's called the T-Rex study. So funny story with my brother and I with Brad Schoenfeld, if you know who that is, went to Lilly again. I'm like, come on, I'm the biggest Lilly lover, but they decided to go with a different study team. Apparently they probably, probably a good choice. They're like, who the hell is this guy on podcast? He doesn't know what the hell he's doing. They chose a different team, but they showed it. I saw the slides from the conference where they showed a decrease compared to, I believe the standard of care group, a decrease in fat free mass loss. So as we'd expect, and so it was pretty, they cut it in half. And that's kind of what I'm seeing. I'm seeing cutting in half versus like none at all when people are lifting weights. So pretty cool. Yeah, so again, what I'm hearing you say is that if you take tersepati, put creatine, plus resistance training and a little bit of TRT, it's basically a PED cocktail. Is that what we're talking about here? Yeah, and I mean, I'm sure you have talked about all the Myostatin inhibitors yet on podcast. I mean, they're studying it. The thing is, it might be overblown. Like we're, of course, barbell medicine, I'm obsessed with muscle and that type of thing. Is it possible that we're overstating the benefits? We don't want people to get frail, but like is it possible that we're overemphasizing it? I don't know, we'll see, because if people live longer and live better with these Myostatin inhibitor drugs, then everybody's gonna be jacked, ripped, and just like it's gonna be an interesting time. I don't know. Yeah, just walk around and at that point, at that point we will have to reject BMI. There'll just be too many jacked people just walking around and we're like, all right, well, we need another scale here. So. Yeah, like forget BMI. I mean, yeah, actually that was a big part of the conference and not another tangent, but like going way past the BMI at this point, I'm sure you've talked about this, but we know that the BMI is actually, it does a decent job. We're not everybody's a NFL linebacker. Most people are not NFL linebacker walking into the clinic. Not everybody's Jordan and Austin walking into the clinic. And if they were, I would look at them and be like, cares what their BMI is. Somebody should do that, but pretty cool that we are looking at body composition. I think it's important. Yeah. All right, well, let's wrap this up with maybe one of the more controversial parts of this podcast. We save it for last because if people tuned out, then they won't send us hate mail. How hard is it to get these medications? You know, we've got some new government policies potentially coming down the pike. It's gonna make these more accessible, but to you Spencer, what is the biggest hurdle for people to like gain access and maintain access to these sort of medications? Yeah, it's costs. The costs are ridiculous. You see it over here in the United States. There's these middlemen, these pharmacy benefit managers, and because it rebates in the way they structure it, and with the manufacturers and go to the insurances and the pharmacies, instead of being like 500, 600 bucks net price, they see this list price of $1,200 at the pharmacy, 20 to 30% of commercial insurances approve it. Actually, it's probably gonna go down here because of the cost of these medicines. So that is probably the biggest thing we see. We're gonna see that improved over this next few years, though, they just announced lowering the prices. If you go directly with the manufacturer, there's some new prices with Medicare that we weren't seeing before that just were announced. So price, by far price, it used to be, well, price and then access, there's a lot of weight stigma, but now everybody's asking about them. Primary care doctors are feeling more comfortable with them. So the access isn't as big of a deal with finding a doctor who's comfortable doing it. It's really the cost. And I think we're gonna see in five to 10 years, just the prices are gonna be very low, but it's not so much right now. What is the role of vineyard? How does vineyard fit into all of this for access and maybe making sure that people are getting the lowest available cost? Is that something that vineyard does? So our big thing is like, look, because primary care offices aren't equipped with prior authorization specialists, they don't even, I mean, we get referrals from primary care because the back office simply cannot handle the amount of prior authorization. So everybody knows what that is. You're basically asking insurance permission, can I write this drug that I recommend for my patient? And you have to jump through these hoops of answering all these questions. They make it tougher and tougher because they don't wanna pay. And so I was like, all right, this is one of the biggest pain points. I have to hire a prior authorization specialist to handhold the process of going through that. So that's one thing. Obviously we're specialists in the field to where like we know the dosing better, we know the interactions and how to adjust other medications with losing weight. We're gonna focus on resistance training. We have dieticians to minimize side effects and optimize your whole journey. So that's the big thing. We're gonna try to get at the lowest cost possible for you, but we're also gonna handhold you through the process to make sure your side effects are minimized, your body composition is optimized and you just have the best time. And you can chat with us online texting us as opposed to waiting the whole month to go see your primary care doctor. That's just, it's very quick replies, but also expertise is unparalleled. This is actually a little tangent to that topic about cost. And the way I view it and the way I kind of explain it is that you have these, not only brand name, but just prescription medications. And those are the highest cost tier. And then you have compounded versions, which you still need into prescription to obtain, but much lower cost. And then you have research chemicals, which are even lower cost and you don't need a prescription for. How do you kind of view the risk benefit analysis across that continuum? And do you have these conversations regularly with patients because they're like, look, I like what you're saying, I like the benefits, but that cost, that price point is just too much. So is there ever like a scenario where you think of like permissive use, they're like, oh, look, man, I don't love these compounded versions, but I actually think the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Like, yeah, how do you talk about that? Yeah, the problem with the compounded versions is that they haven't been studied for safety or efficacy. Now, if you look at, you can see Reddit, I have had patients come from the compounded versions, they've lost plenty of weight, but because of the nature of the compounded industry, you'll never have safety data. You can't do an FDA, you can't do a trial because the ethics committee would be like, no, you gotta use an FDA branded version. There's concerns over where they're getting the sourced active pharmaceutical ingredient, and if they're making it in a certain way, that's making immunogenic material that wasn't detected, it's a lot of different things, and that might be big pharma, fear mongering against the compounded version. So I usually just say, look, if you cannot get, if you can't afford the FDA approved versions, and you can't get it direct, like it's getting a lot cheaper now, and it's getting similar, almost similar costs to the compounded, it's still more expensive. I can't personally attest to the safety of the compounded versions. I sure as heck can attest to the research grade peptides. Now the thing is, you'll see, there'll be some analysis where it's like 99.5% pure. It would be as pure as a pharmaceutical grade version, and then they'll do an analysis on the next batch, and there's nothing in it. It's actually insane. So like you would have to verify every single batch that you got, I wouldn't mess around. I would never have a family member mess around with research grade. I wouldn't recommend compounded versions, but I'm in a, if you wanna call it a privileged position to where we could get them the FDA approved versions. So I don't get mad at people for going to the compounded versions because of affordability. What I do say is that the pain of that in the next few years, I think it's gonna be so, we're gonna look back and be like, oh wow, those are crazy times, because the drugs are gonna get so much cheaper and you'd be stupid not to get the FDA approved version, because they're gonna be so much cheaper. Again, we're just gonna go through the pain in the next few years, unfortunately, to get there. All right, final question to Dr. Baraki. Well, we've been talking about some aglitide, terzepitide, and the future. What about older anti-abucity medications? And what about microdosing? Because people talk about that too. So yeah, thoughts on some of these older medications and also microdosing, because we wanna be fashionable. Yeah, I think the question about older meds fits in nicely with the conversation that you just had around balancing risks and benefits of the non-FDA approved versions, if you're either going, considering a compounded version, or you're going like Chinese bathtub level peptide or something like that, because we have at least as much, arguably much even more experience with some of the older anti-abucity medicines. Now, what are the downsides of them? Many of them are not quite as potent in terms of their efficacy. Some of them come close, but the upside is that in general, they are way cheaper. They have maybe some of their own inconveniences. I've had plenty of patients, for example, the brand name Qsimia or Fentrumine Topiramate is one that is probably the most potent and has the best efficacy among the older ones. It's an oral agent. When it comes in the combination form that's branded, it might be a little bit less accessible for some folks, but it's also something that for somebody who's willing to go through with it and deal with a little bit more inconvenience, prescribe the meds separately in generic form, and it can do its thing. Potentially as a way to get people through this temporary, ideally, period of discomfort or pain that Spencer described until the cost and the prices come down. So I think they do still have a role for now. They can be used in conjunction with GLP-1s. They can be used on their own. They can be a bridge on or a bridge off. There's all sorts of different creative strategies that we can use when using things like, again, Fentrumine Topiramate. Less favorite is gonna be Proprion Naltrexone, but I've had plenty of patients who've used it with varying levels of success. Some who did great, some who didn't do as well, some who didn't get as much of a, who kind of fell somewhere in between, which is gonna be the case for most interventions. And then some patients who have very interesting, maybe disproportionate responses to certain things, to Fentrumine Monotherapy just by itself, which is not something that many of us use too often anymore, but once in a while, a patient will respond really well to that or to a Piramate or to some, anti-depressant category type medicines that for some patients have appetite-modifying type effects and things like that. So bottom line is they do still have a role. They tend to be less expensive. They have their own unique pros and cons that you need somebody who has expertise and experience with them to be able to discuss with the patient and then be able to monitor their therapy and things like that over time. And hopefully to keep kind of poking at this and engaging with this process to see, well, when does the cost benefit become within reach for you or become accessible or do you maybe unfortunately develop a condition that would qualify you for one of these things in a different way? These are all things that we'd be paying attention to. So that's my take on the older meds. And then lastly, the micro dosing topic, that's another thing that you'll see popularly on social media. It's not something that I don't think either of us is gonna routinely be recommending for people, mainly because we don't have the quality of evidence behind those strategies for the types of outcomes that we're looking for in terms of be at weight loss, blood sugar control, cardiovascular risk, kidney liver, all these other sorts of things. I can't say with confidence that using those levels of doses is gonna get you those outcomes that you might be interested in. Now, the caveat there is that when you are independent practicing clinician who feels confident with your practice, because I end up doing this with a lot of other things, you can do stuff off label all the time if you are comfortable with it, if you have a sense of the potential benefits, the potential risks, you're able to discuss this with your patient. And so where that might come more into play, and probably does more regularly come into play, is dosing for tolerability, right? And so we know that tolerance, the side effect risks that we talked about earlier, the overwhelming majority of it is gonna relate to dosage. And so tinkering with dosages is probably the way that we end up dealing with most of the side effect kind of profiles, whether going to even tinier doses and or stretching out that on ramp process to be even longer. A lot of the traditional dosing regimens, it's you go on this dose for four weeks and then you bump it up from there, et cetera. I could stretch that out longer if I wanted to. I could keep you on a lower dose for longer or increment you in a smaller way. If you're comfortable with these things, you can use those types of strategies. But it's not gonna be a standard recommendation for us at this time until or unless we have better quality data, I'm not gonna go out making grandiose claims about if you just micro dose, you'll get these like life changing benefits with no side effects or risk or something like that. I don't have concerns about risks at the very low doses and that's why we would use those potentially as a strategy for tolerability, but not really so much outside of that. So that's my take there. Excellent. All right, well, to sum up the data is clear. The new anti-OBCD medications, especially those targeting multiple receptor pathways, while they're offering efficacy that rivals metabolic and bariatric surgery with improved tolerability and they're showing clear benefits for cardiovascular, kidney and liver health with additional potential in the future. If you'd like to have a discussion with professionals about this, you can click on the link in our description below in the show notes. You can connect with professionals at Vineyard. That's Dr. Dodolsky's company and Austin will be starting there shortly. So if you wanna work with Dr. Baraki there and it's not just weight loss. Spencer, can you talk to some about some of the other stuff that you guys deal with? I know you mentioned cardio metabolic health at the onset, but yeah, what can people expect if they end up head into Vineyard? Yeah, so think about obesity, but also obesity adjacent to cardio metabolic health. Lipids, cholesterol, we also help with things like, easy things like hair loss. If you're losing your hair from the weight loss, we can jump in with minoxidil. If you're a guy and you just have androgenic hair loss, we can do a little finasteride. We can't call ourselves primary care. We like to stick to the cardio metabolic, but we can do some of these other things that, places these pill mills that you see, where you pay $50 a month, we can send it to places like Mark Cuban if your insurance doesn't cover it. So even skincare like Tretinoin, but think about blood pressure, lipid, glycemic control and weight losses in general, and then anything kind of adjacent to that. There you go. And for all your training and nutrition needs, you can check out Barbell Medicine. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. A special shout out to Dr. Nadeulski and Dr. Baraki for joining me, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.!

=== FILE: Episode 379： Menopause Myths, Cortisol Belly, & The Truth About IUDs [m8eypfBiZaw].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Two weeks ago, in Part 1, we started dissecting a five-hour viral series from the diary of a CEO that racked up millions of views. We debunked cycle-sinking and the idea that Zone 2 cardio is bro science. But today, today we're getting into the really scary stuff. In Part 2, we're tackling claims that menopause basically destroys your ability to recover, that fasting somehow gives women belly fat, and perhaps most concerning that your birth control is eating your bones and ruining your athletic potential. I'm joined again by Dr. Lauren Kalenzo Semple, and this time we're bringing in the heavy artillery. Dr. Lorraine Baraki helps us navigate the fear-mongering around IUDs, and Dr. Spencer Ndolsky weighs in on the GLP-1 conversation. We watch this so you don't have to. Today, let's get started with the claim that if you're a woman over 40, you're basically fragile. We talk about high intensity during our reproductive years. You can pretty much get away with whatever you want to do during your reproductive years because you have the benefit of our hormones working for us. We start getting into perimenopause, and we start getting into menopause. This is where we have to really carefully look at volume versus intensity. So that means if we're doing lots of stuff, or we're doing really purposeful, high intensity versus low intensity, because we're trying to create what we call a polarization of the training so that when we hit high intensities, we're actually hitting the intensities we need to create change. But on the other side of it, we want to hit really low intensity so that we can have recovery. It gets harder to recover as we get older, regardless of if you're male or female, but in perimenopause, we don't have the benefit of estrogen-supporting anti-inflammatory responses. So we have to be very cognant that we need more recovery. Well, I think recovery is very individualized. And again, it goes back to how much volume are you doing. And so there will be a point at which we are having recovery issues because we're just overdoing it. And that point will vary for different people. The fitter you are, probably the more that you will be able to handle. If you're just starting an exercise, then we need to get over that initial hump of just getting used to it, making sure that we're not having a ton of soreness. So if we're just going to say menopause, then that's missing the mark about, again, who are we talking to and what kind of exercise are they doing and what is their fitness level? Because we're going to have a different conversation based on those parameters. And there are, in some cases, recovery issues that are not necessarily about your training, but maybe about overall experience of the menopause transition, where maybe you're having some symptoms and then there's poor sleep and then that's all kind of factoring in. But there's nothing to say because you are at menopause or post-menopause or because you have hit a certain age, here's your volume cutoff. You can't do high volumes of exercise. And we know that because there are amazing master's athletes of both sexes. So you can just look to that and say, hey, if you're fit and you continue to stay active, then you will continue to adapt in an exercise-specific manner. The reason why a lot of older people might have what we could say are recovery issues is because you end up with some pre-existing pain or injury history going into an exercise program that then you're trying to account for. So maybe if that's the angle, then I can... But I don't know. If you're saying older people might have more joint pain, broadly speaking, and therefore we might want to consider that in how we're developing an exercise program. Okay, but as soon as we start getting beyond that, then I don't know what we're doing here other than just scaring people into doing less exercise. Yeah, it's just a nocebo straight up. They're just like, look, if you're older, it's going to be harder to recover. And it's like, well, maybe... It depends. Is this person like a lifelong athlete? Right? Or they have been training? You know, they just start training and now they're more trained. And so therefore, like their recovery status, they've accommodated to the training load. That's what happens. You get better at recovering the more trained you get. Now, as people get older, a number of things can happen. One, you can develop medical conditions. So if you're saying, look, older people generally have more medical comorbidities that can compromise their not only ability to participate and exercise as much as they want, but also maybe limit some of their adaptations, their recovery. Sleep can be a huge issue. Psychosocial stress. There's a whole bunch of stuff that tends to accumulate as people get older. And so broadly speaking, sure, there can be more variability and more volatility in how people recover. But the idea that just because somebody's getting older, their recovery is worse. Their training tolerance is worse. All other things being equal. Well, I ain't buying it. And I don't think that's supported by evidence either. And this whole other thing about discussion around menopause is like there's these, women are these special creatures when they go through menopause. They don't respond as well to exercise. Somehow they need to be handled very carefully. And again, all of this is just putting up obstacles, barriers into my mind. And like how, if you're hearing this and you're a woman, you're perimenopausal, you're like, should I, I don't know, man, like, I don't know that I should be exercising. It's kind of like when you tell a person with osteoarthritis, you're trying to explain to them the pathophysiology of the condition, you're like, oh, let's just wear and tear on your joints. And they're like, oh, that sounds bad, doc. What should I do for it? And you're like, you should exercise because it's actually, it's good for you. Improves all sorts of outcomes. You're like, well, you just told me there's wear and tear on my joints, but you're asking me to load and put more wear and tear on the joints with exercise. It's like you're telling people, these women, like, yes, you need to exercise. It's beneficial for you. But also, but look, if you have menopause, like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. It'd be very careful. You know, I don't know, it doesn't, doesn't square with me. Yeah, I think it's another example of reducing you to your hormone profile, right? So that we're just translating the cycle sinking into, you know, framing it differently for a different age group. And it also doesn't really square that we're saying we need to really, really focus on recovery here. But everyone should be doing sprint interval trainings. Like sprinting is one of the most, like, you know, damaging type of exercises you can do. So arguably, I would say if you're going to start doing a bunch of sprinting, make sure that you are recovering appropriately. But I mean, after you account for the fact that do you know how to sprint? But how are both of these things true? That recovery is so important and is something that we really, really need to be mindful of. But we want to be going as hard as possible. And we need to be lifting heavier because we are older or doing more high intensity work. So that is, I'm trying to wrap my mind around the broader recommendation. And it's just not the puzzle isn't fitting together for me. Again, I don't think that she does exercise prescription on a regular basis for people. And so like, because again, when you try to put all these ideas together to try to generate the Stacey Sims program, you'd be like, this doesn't make sense. I can't even create a program from what you're saying. But just one more little beat on this on this menopause thing. There's this assumption that perimenopausal women somehow lose their like muscular skeletal plasticity. Like just don't respond as well to exercise anymore. And so what you would then expect to find in a research investigating how do postmenopausal women respond to resistance training, for example, compared to premenopausal women, you would expect way less hypertrophy, way less strength gain. Because again, their adaptive capacity has been somehow attenuated by being in the hormonal milieu created by menopause. That's not what the research shows. It's not what the research shows. And like, look, if there were these special nuances that we could get very technical and detailed about and come up with proprietary recommendations, I would love that. Do you understand the marketing engine behind that and how we could so it'd be great. It'd be great. Look, specific recommendations, I can get ultra nuanced here. But instead, I got to say something less sexy like, look, I think you should lift weights a few times a week. I'll hit all the major muscle groups. I'll hit all the major muscle groups, most, you know, do it for a few sets that make you feel kind of uncomfortable, but not maximal. And then you should do conditioning throughout the week also. And you should get your heart rate up kind of to the point where you feel like you can't speak in complete sentences or sing a song. And you should do that for a couple hours a week too. And they're like, well, that doesn't feel very individualized. I'm like, well, no, that's to the broad public. I need to know your goals and you know your current fitness level, your preferences, your resources, all sorts of stuff to make you an individualized program. But just because you're going through menopause doesn't mean that you need a special program. And doesn't mean that you're not going to respond as well to the program. That's not what the evidence says. Latest men analysis, 101 studies, 101 Dalmatians investigating this. It's like, please, I understand that having, having worked with professionally women experiencing menopause, I understand and can empathize that a lot of things are changing. But it does not mean that your exercise response is blunted or that you need specific exercise to deal with that. Again, reducing somebody down to what's happening hormonally, I think misses a lot of patient, of what's going on with the patient. It's not very holistic also, which, you know, to use a buzzword, you would think root cause people, holistic people would just reject this. They'd be like, what, just hormones? Come on. I think when we look at where this conversation went and the kind of deep dive into explaining it in a way that is really hard to follow, you know, there was a discussion about muscle fiber type differences and myokines. I'm like, why are we talking about myokines? Yeah, glute for the glute for receptor. I'm like, but don't get it wrong though. If you're going to go into the wheat, don't get it wrong because nerves like us are going to find, we're going to find you. Yeah. And I think it's harmful to then spin this rhetoric as if it ignores the abundance of knowledge we have about muscle adaptations. It also ignores all of the stuff we don't really know and the complexity of the individual contributions. Like how are all of these interacting with each other? You know, what even is a myokine? And do we even have we identified all of these specific functions of them in humans? No. So that's an interesting discussion, but is the next thing out of your mouth going to be, and here's my myokine specific training program? That's excellent. Okay. Before we rate this on the BS and the harm scale, I did, I have to point these two things out. They did talk about muscle fiber types first, Dr. Van Der Rij claim that lighter loads only build endurance and that she's also doing tempo work now to replace the explosive muscle fibers that she's lost. Because people have to remember what we're what we're training for now. It's different than I had a woman recently say I was taught to do biceps curls five pounds 30 times. Well, after 30 times, not only are you bored, but you probably be at failure 30 times. That will build endurance. I am training to be as strong as possible. And when I miss when I have strength down, then I start playing with tempo so that I could build replace some of the explosive muscle fibers that I'm going to lose over time. So to be clear, pretty much any sort of resistance training at almost any intensity can build strength. But sure, if you want to say that maximal strength development happens at higher intensity, higher load lifting, somewhere above 65%, 70% of your 1 rep max greater than like a 15 to 20 rep max load, sure, we would not disagree. We'd say, yep, that squares. But to say that lighter load only builds strength endurance or endurance period, it's just not consistent. Like blood flow restriction training would like a word. One, two, just there's other studies where people are literally using 30%, 50%, and there's still some strength gain. And it's like, well, how did that happen? It's like, well, it turns out the body is relatively sensitive to mechanotransduction. Like it will just you make the muscles do stuff and we readily adapt. Yeah. Did you want to say anything more on the explosive muscle fiber replacement theory? It helped right here. It's like, this implies that there is some optimal distribution of fiber type that we should be striving for, right? So, you know, if you and is it 50-50? I don't know. But let's let's say it's 50-50. And that's really what we want. What we know is if you are a high level endurance athlete, you're a marathon runner, you're probably going to have a distribution that looks quite different from somebody who's a high level Olympic weightlifter. Because you are training in a sport specific way and there are different adaptations associated with those very unique training styles. So, that doesn't mean, oh, in that context, who has a bad distribution, skewed fiber type distribution? That's not a thing. It's just a sports specific adaptation. And so, we shouldn't be worrying about this, first of all, because if there are differences, they're quite small. We're talking it's roughly 50-50 and maybe it's skewing a few percentage points in one direction or the other. But it also depends what muscle are we measuring and what type of analysis are we doing and are we accounting for hybrid fibers, which many analyses do not. So, we can go deep down into the rabbit hole of why I'm not even comfortable making the claim that there are definitive meaningful sex differences in this topic. But even if there were, it wouldn't change my recommendation that you should be in goal-oriented training because there's no evidence that your muscle fiber type distribution is somehow predictive of your long-term health. No, no. If anything, if it's predictive of anything, it's what sport you might end up selecting into, right? Like, you select the sports based on the muscle fiber type distribution. But yeah, Sim says men have more fast-switch muscle fibers than women who have more slow-twitch muscle fibers. Again, insinuating that not only is this a large difference, but also there's an important difference to taking into consideration. Well, look, we're all born with a set amount of muscle fibers, right? And then men tend to get much bigger due to puberty, right? And that's why men end up being stronger. It's not because they have more fast-switch versus slow-twitch. It's not because the muscle fibers, the specific tension that the muscle fibers themselves can produce. Women don't have dysfunctional muscles. Women do not have dysfunctional muscles compared to men. Men just on average have more muscle mass. That's the big difference. And so, if Sim straight up said that, that would be one, accurate. And two, we could ignore this entire thing about muscle fiber type. Like, why does this matter? It does not determine training. It does not determine health of an individual. And then she gets it wrong too. Because again, when you look at the data, again, as you mentioned, it depends on the muscle that you measure, how you measure this sort of stuff. But generally speaking, the differences are either not there or very, very small. And the methodology really kind of influences this. But men and women generally have the same muscle fiber type distribution. Men tend to be stronger than women, but it's not because women have a dysfunctional muscle. It's just men have more muscle mass. That's it. Just say that and move on. And if we have any evidence that there might be some connection between fiber type and health, it's the hybrid fibers might be the problematic ones. Because it's sedentary disease, say, we're seeing more hybrids. And so, what's the message? You need to exercise. You should exercise. Yeah. In fact, there was this case report. It was they've identified the highest fiber type distribution in favor of fast-twitch muscle fibers. This person was 71 percent, well, the one muscle that they investigate. It was 71 percent type 2 fast-twitch. And it was a woman, an international Olympic weightlifter. And it's like, there you go. Put that in your pipe and smoke it. No, it's just, it was just annoying to listen to. Because again, why are we talking about this? And it's something that nobody can measure and nobody can track over time. So in that way, it's like, you don't even know whether it's the thing that you're supposed to be doing to fix this problem that doesn't even exist is working. Because what are you doing? Like there's no way for you to assess it. All right. Let's rate the muscle fiber type, the menopause discussions, all this muscle-centric stuff on the BS. I'm going to give it a 5 out of 5 again on the BS, mainly because again, almost everything said around this relating to exercise and reducing things down to hormone is wrong. So like just to straight up, it's just wrong and muscle fiber type thing was also wrong. So like, I don't know how you go lower than a 5, but do you feel differently? No, it was all, the only thing that I liked about it was, no, I didn't like it. So I don't know anything about the section. Yeah. Wow. Okay. What are you giving this on the harm scale? This is just as harmful as the other sections in my mind because again, all I come away from this section is confused. I'm more confused after this than I was in the previous section because now I thought I was supposed to do sprint interval training and lift weights, but now everything is changing at menopause. You can't really understand why I need to focus on recovery and there's all of this really complex stuff going on in the muscle that I don't understand. You're using words that I don't understand. Referencing random myokines and random proteins and to come away with what message? What was the message? Don't look at me. I have no idea. I have no idea what these people are talking about. I watched it twice, probably collectively all the way through, like in pieces and such. I don't get it. I was trying to put myself as like a lay person just watching this and I'm like, is this compelling or like interesting or entertaining? And I think I suspect if you were a woman and you're watching this and like the initial sort of thing that locked you in, lured you in, hooked you was like, a lot of people are dismissing women's symptoms and experiences. I get that. I get that. But man, then you sat through another like five hours of this shit. Like hats off to you for the commitment to the bit, but like I don't understand. Like the yeah, I'm going to give it. I'll tell you, I'll tell you because I was on Simon Hill's podcast recently and he as he has had Stacy on. And so there were definitely a lot of Sims fans in the comments. And the criticism of me was that I sound less knowledgeable. Well, yeah, because you don't say definitive things that we can't say definitively. Right. I mean, and also I don't speak in a way that is going to go over people's heads because I think that's poor science communication. So although I could do that, I could make it sound as complicated as possible to make myself feel what smart because I can use a big word. Cool. I don't see the utility in doing that. You're just confusing people. If we can say it in a clearer way, let's do it. If we can use an analogy, let's use it. And so it's like the sciences speak coupled with the I have a secret that you couldn't possibly know that apparently no one else knows either in the scientific community or the medical community. Yeah. That's it's marketable. Perhaps because it doesn't exist. Yeah, I'm going to give it three and a half out of five on the harm scale, mainly because I think when they were talking mostly about hormones and mechanisms and glute for a mile kinds and fiber type, I think most people perhaps like they're doing now, their eyes just glazed over and they were like, I don't know what you're saying. So like, so all it was was just a waste of time. Like, right. And then further because because none of it made sense, then there's no like actionable item there. The only reason I'm giving it such a high harm scale is because this idea about focusing on recovery during menopause. And I'm like, so the biggest change that happens during menopause with respect to exercise and subsequent exercise adaptations that people exercise less. So like, then if the message that you take away is focusing on recovery, I'm like, I think focusing on exercising as much as you possibly can to the extent that you can tolerate it physiologically and, you know, and so on and so forth. But yeah, I'm giving it three and a half out of five on a harm scale. Yeah, I just think menopause misinformation is having a moment. And that is unfortunate because we have the data on muscle loss with age and it's pretty similar whether you're a man or a woman and it's not accelerated in the menopause transition. And that's true for metabolism as well. And we have a lot of studies on older people who start lifting weights in their 80s and they are even gaining muscle, which is so cool. And that's a really positive message. But instead of harnessing all of this into saying, you know what, resistance training is always effective and it's never too late to start, we then say you are a woman, it's massively complicated. Menopause is slowly destroying you from the inside out. And here's a random record and therefore like jump up and down 10 times a day. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Straight legs though. You have to lie on straight legs. Okay, so we've established that your muscles don't stop working just because you hit menopause. But the podcast didn't stop at training. They pivoted to diet, specifically the idea that women are so hormonally fragile that skipping a few meals might give them a cortisol belly. Here's Dr. Sims take on fasting and why Dr. Kalenzo Semple and I think it misses the forest for the trees. I've had an evolution with the way I think about fasting. When I first kind of, you know, was stepping out of the box and what's happening in menopause and why was my body composition, I didn't know what to call it back then, but what was all this going on that was new and all my patients were having it as well. And these were my girlfriends. I work in a small town with a big university and these are PhDs and we're running marathons, we're doing all this stuff and everyone's kind of complaining of the same thing. And so fasting seemed to be helpful and my girlfriends were trying. We all kind of did this fasting thing and I was like super excited about it. Everybody felt better. Okay, so fast forward. I'm learning more about hormones, body composition, protein intake, all of these needs. And suddenly as I'm counseling my patients, I'm realizing I can't meet my own protein goals if I'm trying to fast at the same time. And I quickly realized if we're looking at health spam, if we're looking at body composition, there may not be a lot of room for fasting for these patients, you know, or for my girlfriends, you know, and it is really difficult for my patients to reach their nutrition goals. So never at the expense of meeting your basic nutrition goals and your calorie needs. And it is really, really hard to do while fasting. So you may get a short-term benefit with weight loss, but there really doesn't out. Deseritums can get into the nitty gritty. But the basic idea of fasting, if we want to use the term fasting, we have to look at it as, are we talking about intermittent fasting or time restricted eating? So intermittent fasting is kind of like, you know, your water fast, your five day, two day, all that kind of crazy stuff, which for the most part men can get away with and have a positive impact on body composition, but women can't. It's typically about 12 hours of eating and 12 hours of not. So you're trying to follow that circadian rhythm and work with your hormones. It can also, when we do have that period of time, which maybe that sounds very intuitive, but a lot of people are eating at 10pm, they're snacking on food, and they're trying to go to bed, and then they're getting up when you give your body a little bit longer. So at 12 hours time is when your body will really efficiently be using up all your glucose, really dropping some of those insulin levels, but it's not so much that it's stressful. And we're using stress very generically here, but on a cellular level, long periods of fasting for women specifically can be very stressful to the body. And that's why, if you think about Stacey's example of what happened in two fasting periods to, you know, a man and a woman, different things are going to happen to your body if it thinks it's being in starvation. You said that men can do longer fasts. They can. They can do longer fasts, and it can should actually, you know, be something that might be advantageous for them for how their body is made, might increase their focus and some other metrics. But for women, these longer periods are actually going to promote more visceral fat storage and become pro-inflammatory. And you said it a little casually, but disrupting your hypothalamus and shutting off your hormone system will cause a low estrogen state. And that's very problematic as we've talked about. Let's start with this cortisol situation because I just had to, I just had an argument, this discussion. A woman in my gym, very kind, very nice. And I would consider reasonably intelligent. Her coach had her do this full hormone workup when they started. So she got her cortisol tested in addition to testosterone, a bunch of weird thyroid labs. And by the way, her coach is not a physician or a healthcare professional in any, yeah, but you know, that's details. And she, this woman's like, I'm not drinking coffee because my cortisol is high. And I was like, who told you your cortisol is high? She's like, well, I had a measure. And I'm like, when did you have a measure? She's like, well, it was in the morning and I got one, one lab draw. And I was like, yes, so that's not how we test for hypercortisolism when it's not how we assess cortisol levels. It's more complicated than that. There's no current consensus on how to do it, but usually like a 24 hour urine collection, you can do a dexamethasone suppression, there's a bunch of different ways we have a whole series on this. It's more complicated than that. I can't tell from your lab value that you have high cortisol. And by the way, I'm not worried about what coffee does to your cortisol level. This is not cortisol, not the thing to focus on for you. I feel confident in saying that. Anyway, what is that? What the hell is all this fasting stuff about with being hyper focused on cortisol? Like, is there any chance that people who are doing either intermittent fasting, where they skip breakfast, don't eat till lunch, or they do some other sort of time restricted feeding window where, you know, more calories in the early parts of the day and then they fast overnight, you know, whatever, is there any chance that this is increasing people's cortisol to a level that is pathological? We have no data to support that claim or the claim that somehow you're going to store more visceral fat. In a calorie deficit, no less. The fasting literature is quite clear that it's not magic and that it's a tool you can use to create a calorie deficit. And it can be an effective tool for people. You have a shorter eating window, you end up eating less, you've created the calorie deficit and that works. So if there was somehow a connection between this and visceral fat, people were increasing their visceral fat over 16 weeks of time restricted feeding, then I mean, that would be shocking, but we would have that data. Like, it's effective weight loss strategy if you're using it appropriately. Yeah. Yeah, it's just another tool to create a calorie deficit. Does not appear to be advantageous insofar as either more people are able to achieve clinically significant weight loss with it or otherwise adhere to it. But if it's somebody's preference, I'm fine with it. This idea that  women respond somehow differently to this, and their cortisol levels go crazy. And that is the cause of, apparently, findings that have never been documented in humans. You know, it's interesting, because intermittent fasting is often billed to be like this inflammatory reducing sort of practice, you know, autophagy increases, you're breaking down more cells that nerve is senescent, and you wanna get rid of them, and all these good things. It does that, but now it also increases cortisol that's pro-inflammatory, apparently, to increase visceral adipose tissue. And to be clear, I think both of those claims, it's all, I think it's all BS. Like it's just, the stuff that happens short-term, hormonally, generally speaking, to me, is uninteresting from a human outcome standpoint. I feel that way about pre-training hormonal milieu, I feel that way about post-training hormonal milieu, I feel that way about when people are fasting for short periods of time, I'm more concerned about what happens long-term, I think that's where most people should spend their attention, that's where they should focus their attention, but this, it's just the last claim and I'll get you to weigh in on this. The idea that if you were a woman and you do intermittent fasting, well, you're at a high risk, Dr. Crawford said this, you're at a high risk of not eating enough. The idea that low energy availability is gonna, and it's like, well, if more people don't lose weight on intermittent fasting compared to any other sort of dietary practice, if that's what the data says, then how is there an increased risk of low energy availability or insufficient nutrient consumption? Yeah, and I think, I don't understand why we're kind of borrowing from the low energy availability literature, which is a true problem that some people have, but that's, we're seeing this in athletes who are doing a lot of exercise and who are probably not feeling to support that level of activity or maybe they are trying to stay at a low body fat or low weight for performance related reasons. And that's sort of the population that is typically affected by this. Now, the idea that most women are affected by low energy availability is just insane. Because if that were true, then, I mean, we wouldn't have any overweight women, first of all. We can say long-term fasting does increase cortisol levels. We can say that if you are doing a ton of exercise and not eating at all, then that is probably not a good idea overall for your health, for your daily nutrient needs, for performance, for a variety of reasons, right? We can say if you are somebody who does have chronically elevated cortisol levels and you have been diagnosed with Cushing's that maybe you are having some changes in your body composition and we're seeing more weight around your midsection and that's your cortisol belly and maybe there's like that kernel of truth. But we're now packaging this by borrowing from all of these scenarios that are irrelevant to most people and then we're saying and therefore no facet training. Right, it doesn't make sense. It's not evidence-based. It's just like every time that intermittent fasting has been investigated, it effectively just rebuts everything that's being said about it. Even like the late, one of these more recent meta-analyses on this show that fasting didn't have any effect on estrogen, prolactin levels, gonadotropins. Another recent study showed that it actually didn't really affect cortisol as much as we would otherwise predict. I mean, it's just dynamic. There's a lot of stuff going on here. So, just rejecting it. You know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, figs make scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus, they're antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. Figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers. They make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet. And they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an ice box. With the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because figs just dropped a ton of new limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare, you want to shop for a loved one who is, figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at wearfigs.com with the code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com code FIGSRX. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year is over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards Barbo Medicine coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit by the way. Your accountant will approve and your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not ride away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long-term health and performance instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to barbomedicine.com, choose your plan and at checkout, select flex pay with HSA, FSA. Because those dollars were meant to make you healthier and that's exactly what we do. Barbo Medicine, evidence-based training that pays off, literally. So the RDA recommendations of 0.8 grams per kilogram is survival doses of protein, like sitting on a chair like a mushroom. Prevading malnutrition is the goal of it. Yeah, especially our parable. It is not for active people. It is not for living your best life people. 0.8. The recommended daily intake. Is 0.8 grams per kilogram of lean body mass. So it's low. It's very low. So the research supports, easily supports, let's use pounds, 0.86 grams per pound for lifting people. I recommend over a gram, a gram for ideal pound. The RDA recommendations of 0.8 grams per pound Dr. Vanda Wright talked about protein intake. She said that you shouldn't be eating the RDA, recommended protein intake because it's made for people who are sitting on a chair like mushrooms. Just the first time I heard that saying. So add that to the lexicon. She recommended one gram of protein per pound and then later said, no, it's one gram of protein per pound. Ideal body weight. How much protein do people need? If we're talking to the general public, then I think everybody agrees the RDA is a little bit too low. So that 0.8. But when we bump it up to 1.2, 1.3, that seems to be helpful. There's a benefit there. What does that mean? For most people, eat protein with each meal. Maybe throw in a protein shake if you're struggling to get a sufficient portion of protein with each meal. If we're starting to quibble about 1.6 or 1.8 grams per kilogram, by the way, we're not talking pounds, then you can say, oh, perhaps a slightly higher level is better if you're somebody who's really trying to maximize muscle growth. Maybe. But the idea that we would need more protein to fuel our activity, because we are physically active, we're doing our forest sprint interval a couple of times a week, we're not using protein as fuel. So that just completely misses the point about what is the purpose of dietary protein and how are we using it in physical activity? We're not. Yeah, yeah. I mean, again, who is this advice to and what's the application, right? I mean, if you look at most data we have on protein consumption in the United States for adults, it's higher than the RDA as it is right now. Depending on who you read, it could be anywhere between 0.9 to 1, 1.1 grams per kilo per day. But we just eat a lot of protein, mostly unfortunately through the way of processed foods, which not great. So if you tell somebody just increase their dietary protein, most people will take that to mean like, okay, more chicken, more egg, just these generally minimally processed or unprocessed foods, which can be useful for displacing processed foods and other things that tend to be more energy dense and so on and so forth. That said, strictly speaking, most people don't need to eat that much more protein. To your point, it's an extra protein shake a day. And in fact, if I was making like this public recommendation, it's like, yeah, you look, you need to lift weights a few times a week, all the major muscle groups of the body, make sure that you take a few sets for each muscle group to somewhere that feels kind of uncomfortable. You need to do two, two and a half hours of conditioning per week, whatever modality you prefer. It should be kind of hard, but not so challenging where you can't speak in short sentences and you should have an extra protein shake every day. And it's like, well, I just wrapped up five and a half hours of nonsense into something that is not only accurate, but also like, you know, public facing. So yeah, most people would benefit from like an extra protein shake or extra serving of protein per day to the extent that taking protein up higher would be better is either from displacing, again, ultra process foods for people who are currently eating a dietary pattern that's rich in those, or for very active, very lean, hard training individuals, sure, higher than that, but they're not listening to this fricking podcast about protein intake anyways. So like, you know, and how high can you go? Much higher, but saying a gram per pound, it's already a little high. And then a gram per pound ideal body weight without defining what ideal body weight is. And further, when the, none of the evidence on protein intake is about ideal body weight, it's just total body weight. Some people said, oh no, it's gotta be your lean mass. And I'm like, where is the data on that? Like if you wanted to say that because somebody maybe is an individual with obesity, for example, and their body weight's quite high and you wanted to make some sort of recommendation, I get that, but saying that that's like the general wreck for everybody, like just inconsistent with the evidence. Well, it's also not a very practical recommendation because most people don't have access to that number. Well, you gotta measure it. So you gotta get a dexa, if you wanna work together, you gotta get a dexascan first and only then. And a VO2 max, and we gotta get your cortisol level tested too because that's how we're gonna dial you in. You brought up an interesting point earlier that a lot of this discussion around hormones really leads to a lot of unnecessary hormone testing done by people who don't really understand why or how to interpret the results or the huge influence of measurement technique, like the assay that you're using, it might just make it kind of a garbage assessment, like testosterone for women. But by measuring more things and making it more complicated and presenting it as like, we have this sort of secret sauce where if we have more data, then we can be more granular in our recommendations. Kind of misses the mark on tracking metrics that we actually do know are important. Like if you want to track your progress in the gym to make sure that you are progressively overloading, then that's good. If you're trying to eat fewer calories, then perhaps tracking your calories, at least for a short period of time, can be an effective strategy. But there are obvious things that we might want to encourage people to measure and worrying about these acute or day-to-day hormone fluctuations, whether it's menstrual cycle or longer-term menopause transition or even shorter-term with cortisol, we're focusing on the wrong things. Yeah, yeah, I agree. It does sound sexy. It does sound compelling, especially to the lay public. It's like, oh, this is Dr. Speak. I'm interested in Dr. Speak. And that, you know, look, I mean, medical dramas and TV shows, they're very popular. So there's something there. I get it from a marketing standpoint, but yeah, I agree. Missing the forest for the trees, and in some cases the trees are actually not trees at all. They're just mistaking them for trees. Just kind of a weird thing. We're gonna shift gears now. Up until this point, the misinformation has mostly been about wasting your time in the gym or stressing you out about meal timing. But now we're moving into medical advice that could actually cause harm by scaring women away from effective healthcare. The viral episode made some terrifying claims about IUDs and birth control causing bone loss and essentially, quote, shutting down a woman's system. Now to address this, I tagged in Dr. Lorraine Baraki to look at the specific claims regarding IUDs and the birth control pill. Certainly circumstances where that is the right thing to do. We've had IUDs in practice for a really long time. For the majority of this, we were only placing them in women after they had given birth at least once because of their size and being able to pass them through the cervix. Now we have different options and we are offering them to women younger, which is wonderful. However, when we're putting IUDs and the uterus of women who are really young, sometimes the person who's giving birth to women who are really young, sometimes the progesterone dose in them is so high that it is preventing ovulation. And we are seeing young women who are not ovulating and they're not making estrogen therefore. And they don't even really realize it because that's not disclosed as one of the main mechanisms of a progesterone IUD because it doesn't happen in enough people to effectively prevent conception that way. It works through the inflammation, the cervical mucus changes. And why does that matter? Because if you are not ovulating and you're not making estrogen, you are going to have low libido, low energy, you're not gonna build your bones during critical years. Let's say the IUD last five to seven years, you're 18 to 25. These are some of the most critical years in your mental health, your bone health, your cardiac health and being low estrogen during that time is going to set you up on a different risk trajectory for your entire life. And the worst thing here about the progesterone IUD is that because of the progesterone, which will thin the lining, many women just say, I don't have my period because my lining is so thin and that's the side effect of the IUD. If that same woman was not ovulating and came to me and said I haven't had a period in seven years and I knew she was low estrogen and not ovulating, we're highly concerned about her health. But because she has an IUD, what happens? Well, that's a side effect of the IUD, no big deal. I'll start by saying that the claims made regarding the levoronogestral IUD show a fundamental misunderstanding of how these devices work. The claim I'm referring to is that the IUD shuts down estrogen and therefore stops bone building. This is taken from what we just listened to, to quote specifically, sometimes the progesterone dose is so high that it is preventing ovulation. We're seeing young women who are not ovulating and they are not making estrogen. Therefore, you're not going to build your bones during critical years. Referring to the ages between 18 and 25. And so just to put this in a bit of context, I will say that the key to understanding the mechanism of the progesterone IUD is its local action. The IUD releases a very low dose of the hormone levoronogestral and it releases it directly to the uterine lining. The hormone concentration in the rest of your body or the systemic level remains extremely low. How is ovulation affected by this? Well, the IUD's primary job is to create changes in the uterine lining and cervical mucus to prevent sperm from fertilizing an egg. The majority of women up to 80% who use the levoronogestral IUD continue to ovulate and produce their own natural systemic estrogen and progesterone. It's also worth noting that estrogen, primarily estradiol in our bodies, continues to be produced by the ovaries during the use of ovulation suppressing hormonal contraceptives, though at lower levels than in ovulatory cycles. Studies showed that during active use of combined oral contraceptives, for example, which consistently suppress ovulation in contrast to this IUD, which only occasionally suppresses ovulation, estradiol levels are significantly suppressed compared to natural cycles, but they are measurable. They do persist and that reflects ongoing, so diminished follicular activity. So it's a bit misleading to paint a picture that is all or none in this case with the production of estrogen. Now, let's address the topic of bone health in women using the levoronogestral IUD. Because ovulation typically persists, natural estrogen production continues, which protects the bones. The studies on levoronogestral IUDs have overwhelmingly found no clinically significant reduction in bone mineral density, even in young women in their critical bone building years, as referenced before, the ages of 18 to 25. The uterus localized actions of the levoronogestral IUD differ a systemic form of progesterone-only contraception like the depoprovera shot, which reliably suppresses ovulation in nearly all users and is associated with temporary, though typically reversible, bone mineral density loss. The key here is systemic progesterone inhibiting ovulation and estrogen production without concurrent exogenous estrogen as in combined birth control pills, which is protective to the bones. The next claim that I wanted to address is that the IUD could mask a serious health problem. And the quote that this claim comes from is, the worst thing here about the progesterone IUD is that because of the progesterone, many women just say, I don't have my period. If that same woman was not ovulating and came to me and said I haven't had my period in seven years, we're highly concerned about her health. The reality here is that this point is only a partial truth. The contributor in this case fails to differentiate between two very different situations that are worth pointing out. The first situation would be amenorrhea or the absence of a period with a progesterone IUD. In this case, the IUD's local hormone intentionally thins the uterine lining, which is why most users have much lighter bleeding or no bleeding, also referred to as amenorrhea, like I mentioned. When a woman with an IUD doesn't have a period, we know why. It is an expected side effect of a device releasing a low dose local hormone. The other situation to differentiate from the first would be amenorrhea with no known cause. The example the speaker gives, a woman who hasn't had a period in seven years for an unknown reason, i.e. does not have an intrauterine device that is leading to this, to the lack of a period, is an entirely different, potentially detrimental scenario. That lack of a period signals an underlying issue, like low energy availability, excessive training, or premature ovarian insufficiency, which occurs in one to 3% of women that warrants prompt investigation. The concern that the IUD is masking a serious, rare condition, like premature ovarian insufficiency, is small when weighed against the massive benefit of the IUD's extremely high effectiveness for preventing pregnancy, or its use in treating pathological life disrupting menstrual symptoms. In short, counseling should acknowledge the masking risk, but it should not be used as a reason to forego one of the most effective contraceptive methods available. The second clip we're gonna watch relates to the use of hormonal contraceptives, including birth control pills, as well as other forms. The birth control pill can prevent ovulation, therefore prevent some women from being in terrible pain. If you have PCOS, they're often handed out like candy. One reason is because it will regulate your cycle so that you don't have these prolonged irregular periods, but also will decrease testosterone levels, which is sometimes a good side effect of the pill for women who have PCOS. Back to a normal level. Yeah, but if you don't have PCOS, or the regular person, a lot of times your body's tissues are not responding to synthetic estrogen and progesterone, the same way it does to natural. I think that's a very important point. So my niece, who competes at a national level, and she's 14, started suffering from, as she was going through her adolescence, her acne got outrageous, and she's a 14-year-old girl, 13-year-old started 12 and a half. And of course, she goes to the dermatologist, and they're trying some topicals. And then finally, as you go down the algorithm for how we treat acne, one of the off-label uses is birth control pills will lower the testosterone, their skin can clear up. So her father, a little concern comes to me. Her stepmom had passed away, and she didn't have the mom in the house, the immediate mom to talk to. And for the first time, I immediately thought of her athletic performance. Thank you, Dr. Sims. And I thought, she wants to go to the Olympics. There's no way I'm gonna let her testosterone levels drop. Like, we're gonna throw everything topical at this. And we finally found the right combination for her skin, looks great, and she's super happy. But like the next logical thing was to put this 14-year-old on birth control pill to get her acne under control, which is the end result. But what no one's thinking of is her athletic performance. How is it gonna affect her? Training years, leading to it. Training years, like this is critical for her. 16 is when the next trials are up for her. Yep, so that's two years from now. So we were able to get her acne under control, avoid the birth control pill, but that was nothing I'd ever thought of before. ["The Heart's Song"] Let's tackle some of the common claims we hear about hormonal contraception, especially for young female athletes. The idea that birth control is inherently detrimental to performance, bone health, or hormonal health is widespread, as we just heard. But the evidence tells a more nuanced story. The first myth to bust, so to speak, would be that hormonal contraception ruins performance. The claim from this clip was that the next logical thing was to put this 14-year-old on a birth control pill, but what no one's thinking of is her athletic performance. And the reality is that hormonal contraception does not substantially impair or enhance sports performance at a population level. The overwhelming scientific evidence shows that starting hormonal contraception does not confer a performance downgrade. That being said, individual responses and side effects should be considered in counseling and training plans. However, it's not enough to just look at the science. We should also consider contextual factors that can influence others, including adolescents in their sports performance. Coaches, parents, trainers, would do well to avoid the nocebo effect when it comes to this topic. If you tell a young woman her performance will suffer because of the pill, she might believe it, and her performance could in fact drop regardless of the physiology. So I'd say that it's best to be supportive and set positive expectations, especially in the absence of any compelling data that would imply otherwise. The next myth to address here is that bone density will diminish or disappear in women taking birth control pills. And this is taken from the claim that it's no wonder I have 20 and 30 year olds with no bone density. This is a major exaggeration. Estrogen is crucial for bone health as it helps to maintain and build bone. Combine hormonal contraceptives, which contain estrogen, generally have a neutral or even mildly beneficial effect on bone density in adults. For adolescents, the nuance is important. And that is that starting combined hormonal contraceptive soon after menarchy or the first period may temporarily slow the speed at which the body builds peak bone mass. But to suggest that healthy women are left with no bone density is fear mongering. And it is not supported by data. Consistent training, adequate nutrition, and avoiding gonadotoxins like cigarette smoke and certain drug regimens are the biggest drivers of long-term bone health, in fact. And the next topic to address or myth to bust is that combined hormonal contraceptives shut off testosterone. The combination of claims that this came from were first, there's no way I'm going to let her testosterone levels drop. That was in reference to the adolescent niece. And we're gonna shut off our testosterone because it makes us feel better. In reference to women who take hormonal contraceptives, presumably to reduce symptoms of hyperandrogenism, such as acne and excessively oily skin, that is a presumption as that speaker referenced PCOS, specifically. And the reality is that these claims are misleading because it confuses total testosterone with bioavailable or free testosterone. So let's talk about what combined hormonal contraceptives actually do. The estrogen in these combined hormonal options increases a protein called sex hormone binding globulin. That's made in our livers. Think of sex hormone binding globulin as a taxi service for hormones. The result is when you have more sex hormone binding globulin taxis, they pick up the free testosterone in your bloodstream. This means that you have less unbound testosterone available to interact with tissues like muscle, bone, and skin. This is why doctors prescribe combined hormonal contraceptives for conditions like severe acne, since unbound testosterone affects the skin in ways that lead to increased skin oil production and acne. So what is the impact on performance? Well, when women taking combined hormonal contraceptives have less free testosterone, studies actually do not show a clinically significant impact on strength or sports performance. We cannot simplistically apply male performance models to female physiology, specifically that we will run faster or lift more weight linearly with higher levels of bioavailable testosterone. Women are not little men and our bodies respond differently to changes in androgens. Pivoting away from myth busting of some of the claims made on this podcast, I'd like to emphasize the importance of focusing on the individual. Beyond the science, we have to consider the lived experience of the athlete in this case. And I would maintain that quality of life is a significant performance factor. If an adolescent is suffering from severe acne, this can have a detrimental impact on cell.  nivworth, and confidence. If an adolescent is suffering from heavy or irregular periods, it can be difficult or impossible to train or compete at all due to pain, hygiene needs, or flooding, which refers to bleeding through one's clothing. Combined hormonal contraceptives can be a tool that allows them to fully participate in their sport and life without distraction. The care we provide to adolescents and adults alike must be informed by evidence and prioritize the individual's goals and priorities above all else. ["The How can you stop a lipid and obesity expert to weigh in on these claims. So if you give them the ZMPAC, but they still don't go to the gym, they still don't do anything else, then we'll stop giving it to they won't be healthy. Okay, I want to stop there. She says that we're going to stop giving them the medicine. If you have type two diabetes, insulin dependent type two diabetes where you're so insulin resistant that you need insulin on top of a GOP when receptor agonists and other medicines. And because they are not following some sort of lifestyle plan that you give them, you say, I'm going to stop giving you your insulin. That's the same analogy. Or if a patient is on a statin drug or whatever other chronic disease medicine drug and they are not following through with some sort of lifestyle plan, you go, I'm going to gatekeep and withhold this really efficacious medicine that's going to help you regardless of lifestyle because you're not doing the lifestyle that I prescribed. That's that's that's bad medicine. Well, when I hear that it's going to help me lose weight, and I've got two options, I can go out and lift all these weights, Stacy, and I can, which you know, one day I don't, you know, it's hard, isn't it? Go to the gym, I have to put my shoes on all these, all these things, or I can take this injection and lose all your muscle and lose your bone and end up like the little floating figure in Wally movie that I've talked about before. Right. And that's, that's my fear of just blanket people use. You're also, whether you mean to or not giving the illusion that, you know, willpower is all you need to lose weight, right? By what you said, right? I can either do these hard things, or I can choose this medication, which appears to be the easier way out. And two things can be true at once, people can work extremely hard. Maybe they don't understand exactly what they should be doing. And that's part of what we're trying to change the discussion on. No, in our clinic, it is an hour long, now they're coming in to discuss the GLP one option. It is an hour long visit of risks, benefits, side effects, protein intake, resistance training, mandatory, we will follow your bone density. We will follow your bone mass, I mean, your muscle mass. I love what Dr. Crawford is saying right here, because she's pointing out this false dichotomy that you can either go this easy way out with ozempic or other GLP one receptor agonists, or you can do it the hard way, which is lifting weights. Dr. Stacey is saying, oh, you're going to lose all your bone and muscle if you take the easy way out, you got to do it the hard way. It's a false dichotomy. Of course, you can use both together. And I'd like to point out, though, that the issue with obesity is appetite dysregulation, where these medicines really help normalize and resolve that, or at least minimize the appetite dysregulation and improve the appetite regulation that makes it difficult to actually do the things that people know what to do. They just have troubles doing them, such as eating a healthier lifestyle, dietary pattern, and actually doing the exercise, especially when they're thinking about food all the time, and they have a lot of weight, and maybe it's difficult to do that exercise. So I like that Dr. Crawford really pointed out right here, it's like, hey, this is a false dichotomy. People need these medicines to be able to do the activities that you're discussing. It's not an either or. I want to go into this idea of bone loss with the GLP-1 receptor agnus. This has been studied pretty well, and in fact, there's some data that some of the new GLP-1 slash GIP receptor coagnus may actually have protective effects on the bone. So there's no data to show that people are losing massive amounts of bone from using these medicines. It's a concern from losing a lot of weight in general, but there may be something protective about this co receptor agnism that we see with at least tersepatite and maybe some of the newer drugs. There's nothing specifically about the GLP-1 by itself that seems to be catabolic about bone other than the calorie deficit. So we don't hear people getting really upset about people that just diet without exercise. They're saying it specifically about these medicines, which is a form of weight by recommendation and see. I love what Dr. Crawford saying here as well. I do think we need comprehensive care around GLP-1 receptor prescriptions. We should be touching base with people making sure they're not losing weight too quickly, making sure that if we can helping them exercise, but we shouldn't also gatekeep if they can't exercise or won't or not willing to exercise, as I mentioned before. If people take GLP-1 receptor agnus and there is a good indication for them and they don't lift weights or eat in a way that we want them to, they're very likely, in fact, they're most likely almost 100% going to improve their health. So they're not going to become unhealthy from taking one of these amazing efficacious medicines with a poor lifestyle. If they don't do the lifestyle that we recommend them, they will still get healthier. Indeed, glycemic improvements, weight loss, of course, improvements in obstructive sleep apnea, liver health, and even cardio protective nature of the drug will help them reduce risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. So I don't like this posing like if you don't do the lifestyle that we promote and you just take the drug, you're not going to get healthier. In fact, you're going to get unhealthy. That's not true. We want to promote healthy lifestyle, but the reality is not everybody is going to do it. And so that's behavior change and the issues with behavior change. I will say anecdotally, I noticed that patients, once you give them medicine, they're able to do the things that they already knew to do, but just couldn't do it before. And that is a wrap on our review. Look, the reason we spent two episodes breaking this down isn't to be haters. It's because when you mix valid science terms like myokines or cortisol with fear based storytelling, like in paralyzed people, if you take one thing away from this episode, you are not fragile. Menopause does not mean you stop adapting to exercise. Your IUD is not eating your bones. And if you're a woman, you can fast and not get cortisol belly. If you want to support evidence based content that empowers rather than scares, leave us a review and share this episode for Dr. Lauren, Collenzo Semple, the Barrakes, and Dr. Ndolski. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. See you next time.

=== FILE: Episode 382： The Trial of Big Food [XAXjJSRIV0Q].txt ===

 If you're a podcast host, listen up, this one's for you. My name is Ali Jackson, I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle, and I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform. With Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in ad sales. It's not just typical ad sales either, it's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple, you just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You can vet every opportunity, and their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast, on social media. To really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle, I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to redcircle.com to get your free trial. That's redcircle.com for a free trial. On December 2nd, 2025, the city of San Francisco filed a lawsuit that could fundamentally rewrite the rules of the American grocery store. They aren't just suing food giants for making us gain weight. They're suing them for being a public nuisance, alleging that companies like PepsiCo and General Mills use the literal tobacco playbook to engineer foods that are biologically addictive as cigarettes. Now, for decades, the fitness industry has focused almost exclusively on the individual, your macros, your discipline, your choices. We have to ask a harder question. Has the modern food environment itself become the primary barrier to health for most people? Today, we're dissecting the addiction claim, the data on how our food environment actually has changed over the last 50 years, and giving you the barbell medicine verdict on the trial of big food. Here's maybe the most striking part of the story. You probably haven't heard about it yet. As of early 2026, while legal trade journals and local San Francisco outlets are buzzing, the national news cycle has been pretty quiet outside of some cursory reporting. I'll leave you to speculate why this might be, but today, we're breaking the silence. And to help me do that, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing okay. Intrigued by this story as well. Kicking off the New Year strong with a back tweak that started immediately right at the first week of the year, but we're working through it, and we'll see what happens. I was wondering why I was feeling strong. There you go. It's just like a balance of power. Now, for the listeners at home, if you've read Michael Moss' book, Hooked, which I believe I recommended some time ago, because I think I read it about 18 months ago. It's a really good read. It does a very good job at reporting on how the food environment has changed and maybe why. He basically drew a roadmap for a prosecutor, maybe an enterprising, aggressive prosecutor to follow, and it looks like somebody did. So we're going to follow the details of this case because this is about to break wide open, and we'll see what happens. So we have to understand that for the last 30 to 50 years, Big Food has been winning in court by using the personal responsibility defense. They basically argue if you are overweight, it is because you made a choice. For example, in a 2002 case, Pellman v. McDonald's, that case failed because they relied on consumer protection laws regarding failure to warn consumers about possible dangers, among others. Judges typically dismiss cases like this by stating that since the calories and ingredients are on the label, the consumer is responsible for the outcome. But San Francisco is trying to flip the script. Instead of suing on behalf of one person, the city is suing on behalf of the public. They're claiming that these companies have created a public nuisance, and this is a massive legal shift. Now, we're not lawyers here, so I actually did phone a friend to try to get some input here. So this is the same strategy that was used to break big tobacco in the 90s and the opioid manufacturers more recently. It moves the argument away from did you choose to eat this to did these companies knowingly create a toxic environment that has cost the city, in this case, billions in health care. It's the first municipality to sue major manufacturers. So Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, General Mills, Kraft Heinz, etc. Under this public nuisance statute. Now, under California law, a public nuisance is anything which is injurious to health so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or neighborhood. So by using this statute, the city doesn't have to prove that one person was tricked into eating a cookie. They only have to prove that the industry's collective behavior has created a health crisis. So like obesity, diabetes and heart disease. And it's so pervasive that it interferes with the public's right to a healthy environment and cost the city billions in health care. Now, this may sound familiar depending on how old you are and you're listening to this, because in the 90s, the tobacco master settlement agreement was achieved precisely because states stopped suing on behalf of individual smokers and started suing for the public cost of treating smoking related illnesses. The San Francisco lawsuit uses the exact same logic for metabolic disease. They also cite in the court proceedings the recent opioid litigation. So like the 2019 Johnson and Johnson ruling in Oklahoma. As you know, Dr. Baraki, cities and states have successfully used public nuisance claims against opioid manufacturers. The courts found that aggressively marketing a known addictive substance created a nuisance that the public, not just the individual user, had to pay for. And what's interesting to me is that the core economic argument here is that big food has been privatizing the profits while externalizing the costs. They make billions basically due to subsidized crops and they engineer a bliss point, which we'll talk about later in their foods that drive overconsumption. But the public has been paying the price. And the city argues that local governments are the ones stuck with the astronomical health care costs. They're fitting the bill for type two diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity and so on. Now, Austin, you and I spent a lot of time talking about behavior change and self-efficacy. And when you look at the legal parallels between cigarettes, opioids and these ultra processed foods, do you think the medical community has been too slow to acknowledge that for many of our patients, choice is being subverted by a carefully designed toxic food environment? Or do you worry that this legal theory overshoots the biological reality of how food actually works? Yeah, great topic for discussion. I think this is a deeply asymmetrical relationship that you've laid out here. We, as you said, big fans of self-efficacy and promoting healthful behavior change among people. But that's the extent of our power in this, again, deeply asymmetric relationship. And so we do have to be kind of honest, realistic and based in the evidence around what what food practices look like, what eating practices look like, how this whole process plays out. And so, you know, there was the original theory of this is just personal choice. People are free to go about their day to day, whether at the grocery store, wandering around their their house with their pantry, their fridge and just deliberately, consciously, rationally choosing every morsel that they that they end up consuming. Well, it turns out that there's a lot more of this, what we'll call more automatic eating behavior. There's a lot of biological contributors that are less within our conscious control than we would like. And so, you know, I do tons of weight management related medicine and I have these conversations with patients all the time. And it's less me telling them this and more them telling me about their experience that directly reflects, you know, how much control do they feel they have? And it might be that they have some short term control. I can choose to do this thing for a period of time. But longer term, the biology seems to win out. And so that's kind of reflective of the fact that many of our day to day behaviors and activities, especially around food, are not nearly as conscious, rational choices as we like to think. They're more these subconscious outputs that are kind of automated in some way. They are responding to environmental cues and like nudges, if you will, including what's available in our environment. And then, of course, that aspect of sensory engineering that you kind of allude to with the way that these food companies put these products together to really just light up certain aspects of our brain and make it even easier for it to be an automatic behavior to reach for that over something that might be more health promoting because they have much more appeal kind of packed into their into their product. And this is kind of what's been termed the so-called bliss point of that, like kind of perfect nirvana bite that they're trying to engineer to keep people coming back. And interestingly, it's not so blissful that you immediately get satisfied by that one thing. It's supposed to be this like moment of bliss that is so transient that it wants to keep you coming back over and over and over again. So I think that the obviously, as you alluded to us not being lawyers, the legal aspect of this is something I'm a little bit more reticent to comment confidently on. But I think that if we tie it back to the underlying biology here, there's a lot less of the oversimplistic kind of simple personal choice narrative than than the food companies lawyers would like there to be. Yeah. And I think people are going to hear us say that, you know, I look, most of your food related practices are the result of subconscious sort of integrations of not only your cultural conditioning, but what's in your current environment, current, you know, sensorium. People will say, well, look, we're just arguing for like hard determinism. Free will is a myth and whatever. And people like, so just no agency or what? It's like, no, no, you have some free will here. You do. But we have to move past this binary free will versus determinism. I think a better framework is probabilistic automaticity. And we can draw a little parallel here to your training environment. So think think of your Dr. Baraki here. You got a home gym, you got a rack, you got a bar, you got some plates. The probability of Dr. Baraki hitting his workout is high. All of the behavioral levers, if you will, are moved in his favor. He doesn't have to pack a bag, doesn't have to fight traffic or wait for a squat rack. It's right there. Still has to choose to lift the bar. But the environment has made that choice the path of least resistance or at least lower resistance. Now, imagine the opposite. The commercial gym after work, the first Monday of the new year. The GPS says it's going to take you 30 minutes to get to the gym due to traffic. And when you get to the gym, the parking lot's full, so you got to park up the street and hoof it to get in. Then when you're there, all the squat racks are taken full of people doing weird stuff they saw on TikTok. Plus, you got to walk past a row of massage chairs, a juice bar selling an 800 calorie recovery shake and a wall of TVs designed to distract you. Oh, and by the way, you got to be home soon to eat dinner, prep for tomorrow and get to bed on time. Now, your free will is telling you to lift, but the environment is throwing in all these roadblocks to nudge you towards a lower effort, higher cost choice, skipping the workout. Now, imagine if these roadblocks were ever present, ubiquitous in your environment and precisely engineered to know just how to throw you off your game. Probabilistic automaticity means that while you can make the right choice, the industry has spent billions of dollars making sure that statistically most people won't. And you probably won't all the time either. They haven't taken away your free will. They've just made the healthy choice more expensive or more costly in terms of cognitive effort and actually little price. And they make the ultra process choice free or lower cost. And that's the perfect segue into the actual data, because when we talk about the environment being rigged, we aren't just speaking metaphorically. We have the numbers to prove how the terrain has changed in the past few decades. So when the city of San Francisco calls big food a nuisance, they're effectively describing a toxic food environment. And I think we should be clear about what that means. Your food environment isn't just what's in your pantry. It's the combination of availability, affordability, convenience and promotion within your immediate community, usually defined as like a one mile radius around your home or place of work. But this is actually expanding because it's no longer just what's in your immediate vicinity with the rise of delivery apps, which is now a $30 billion a year industry. The food environment has expanded digitally. Nearly two thirds of Americans now have high calorie ultra process nuisances available at the touch of a button 24 seven, which has fundamentally changed the effort to reward ratio that used to influence human eating behavior. It's far easier now to get a high calorie meal delivered right to your door with just a few flicks of the screen. Now, if we look at the period between 1977 and the early 2000s, the average adult's daily energy intake increased by over 500 calories per day. Now, that shift correlates almost perfectly with the rise of ultra processed foods, which now make up an estimated 70 percent of the U.S. food supply. And besides just the processing of the food actually changing, portion sizes have swelled since the 1970s, the American hamburger and soda have grown two to five times in size. We have cookies on the market that exceed the FDA's established portion sizes by 700 percent. And the portion size has important implications on how many calories people consume. Research shows that when you double a portion size, people spontaneously eat about 35 percent more calories, not just because they decided to, but because the automatic part of the brain doesn't register the extra energy when the food matrix is processed this heavily. So if you believe that the obesity epidemic is a failure of willpower or intelligence, you have to answer a very difficult question. Did the American population suddenly become less disciplined or significantly dumber since the 1970s? Did we experience a massive nationwide genetic mutation in character over the last 50 years? Of course not. Human willpower and intelligence have not meaningfully changed in the last five decades. But what has changed is the environment. We're the same biological organisms that we were in the 70s, but we are now living in a food environment designed for our pleasure. And so the results are predictable. Now, Austin, how widely accepted do you think the role of the food environment is amongst clinicians and also the public? I think there's a lot of variation here, and to some extent it depends on who you talk to. This is definitely a topic that has become more well-recognized recently and say what you will about, you know, some of the recent political movements in the health space. But this is one area where I think they're onto something. Now, as far as what the core problem is and how to address it is where there's more likely to be disagreements between us and them, but at least identifying that, hey, this environment is problematic and what should we do about it is where there's room for subsequent discussion. And so there's a lot of people that have been able to do that, you know, maybe work schedules and maybe impaired sleep that weakens their resolve to try to stick to certain plans or they have kids that they're trying to juggle and all sorts of other, again, roadblocks and barriers that make that path of least resistance stronger and stronger in one direction. And so, you know, there are certainly some situations where, hey, you and I have both had to, quote, unquote, take advantage of some of the aspects of the food environment that maybe aren't so ideal but were kind of helpful for us in that moment. It might not have been the most healthful choice, but were kind of what helped us get by in those particular moments. Now, the issue, of course, is when this becomes a more pervasive pattern in somebody's life over longer periods of time. And so there are certainly pros and cons, but, yeah, there's no doubt that the human genetics, as much as you hear about people, including us, talk about the kind of genetic susceptibility towards obesity. A lot of people say, yeah, but genetics haven't changed. And it's like, yeah, but those genes are evolved for a different environment. And so there's you can't separate the genes from the environment. They are, you know, one is situated in the other. And so fully agree that the environment is the core problem. And that's part of why, because of how difficult it has been for us to change, that's why we're kind of stuck working on the individual level a lot of the time, talking about things like self-efficacy and behavior change and the use of medications like GLP-1s and metabolic surgery and things like that at the level of the individual, because the bigger picture, the system is so much more difficult for us to meaningfully modify. Yeah, yeah, I do think that there's been this shift from like, it's not a shift away from personal responsibility, but a shift away from just trying harder. Like there's more recognition of other influences here, this, you know, gene environment mismatch that's, you know, being, you know, it's really an experiment that's been playing out right in front of our eyes. And so, yeah, I do think that shifting away from just trying harder, you know, telling people that, yeah, just, you know, eat less, move more. I think that's been generally positive, mostly because it's a poor strategy against this rigged system. And but I want to look at exactly who rigged it and how they did so. So when San Francisco calls these companies a, quote, public nuisance, they're looking at decades of documented participation in shaping our modern food environment. So we go back to the 1980s, Philip Morris and R.J. Reynolds, the two biggest tobacco companies in the world. Well, they bought the American pantry. They acquired Kraft, General Foods and Nabisco. And they didn't just bring their money. They brought their scientists. They took the people who spent decades optimizing nicotine delivery and rate of absorption and put them to work on Mouthfeel and Bliss Point. They applied the same hyper targeting marketing strategies they use for cigarettes to sell sugary snacks to children. The same marketing team that made Joe Camel a household name who designed Lunchables and Capri Sun. Then let's fast forward to 1999. We're in Minneapolis at the headquarters for Pillsbury. Eleven CEOs met to discuss the obesity epidemic. Michael Mudd, VP from Kraft, warned them that they were being compared to tobacco companies. He explicitly warned them that they needed to address the obesity epidemic by reducing sugar and scaling back marketing. The response, the CEO of General Mills, Stephen Sanger, responded by saying, don't talk to me about nutrition. Talk to me about taste. It certainly seems like they knew harm was coming and they chose to double down on hyper palatability anyway. And I think it's a mistake to think that the industry's influence just stops at the chemistry of the food. Because once they established the intent to maximize the Bliss Point, they had to ensure the environment made those products the path of least resistance. They didn't just modify the food environment. They built an infrastructure that essentially mandates overconsumption. Through lobbying, they ensured that corn, soy and wheat became the most subsidized crops on Earth. The price of these processed shelf stable foods has remained incredibly stable and cheap for the last 40 years, while the price of fresh produce has shown volatility. When a snack cake consistently is cheaper than a head of broccoli, the choice for a family on a budget has been subverted by economic policy before they even enter the store. They also engineered the retail environment. Checkout lanes and end cap displays are not accidents of store layout. They are prime real estate sold via slotting fees. 70% of food and beverage options at store checkouts are unhealthy, increasing to 89% for snack size items. And these tend to be more prominent at less expensive stores. These are the high traffic sensory traps designed to trigger automaticity when a person is at their most tired or distracted. Now, Austin, we've laid out how the industry essentially has built this food environment, rigging the economics through subsidies and engineering the physical environment to catch us when we're tired or distracted. But as a doctor who deals with metabolic health and obesity every day, you know that the final battle isn't happening at the checkout lane. It's happening in the brain. Now, the industry has a North Star for this engineering called the Bliss Point. Based on what we know about how the body actually signals fullness, how does a precisely engineered food effectively mute those signals to ensure that we keep eating long after our biological needs are met? Is this like a negative food matrix effect? In the sense that it is an engineered food matrix, a lot of the times it is. And a good way to think about this is, you know, if you are somebody who is feeling a little hungry for your next meal and you can imagine yourself sitting down for the meal of a variety of all of your favorite foods compared with a single meal of, let's say, plain boiled potatoes with like no seasoning, nothing else. To the extent that you have an appetite and like true energy needs, you might eat a certain amount of those. And then when you're tapped out, you're done. There's a whole host of mechanisms that might lead you to say, OK, I'm satisfied at this point. There's no further appeal to me in consuming more. But when you have a whole variety of all of your favorite foods in front of you that you can switch between that offer different mechanical textural experiences, flavor experiences that you can go back and forth between, then suddenly the total calorie intake of that meal might expand substantially beyond your energy requirements. So there are a variety of different pathways that can impact this sensation of fullness or satiation and satiety. So there's something things like mechanical stretch, for example, how full physically your stomach is, and that has some neuro kind of signal transduction into certain hormones and things like that. There's also this concept I alluded to called sensory specific satiety, where if you're having a variety of complex flavors versus just like a single thing where bite after bite after bite is exactly the same thing with no variation involved. And then there's, of course, individual level, what we'll call hedonic kind of pathways. Your personal preferences and cravings and the things that you as an individual tend to enjoy, that can easily override your pure energy needs because the reward value of a particular food might be just so high. There's many more things that we could get into, of course. But, you know, I think that intuitively, if you think about that meal of a bowl of just plain old boiled potatoes, unless you're somebody who really loves that, versus a multi-course spread at Thanksgiving with, you know, appetizers and entrees and desserts and a little bit, you know, you know, try a little bit of every single thing throughout the evening. And it's stretched out and there's social aspects involved and there's alcohol involved and various other things. Then suddenly the raw energy intake can be dramatically different. And that's we can call it a food matrix effect. We can just call it an entire food environmental kind of experiential matrix effect that can lead to significant mismatches between your pure energy calorie requirements versus what ends up actually being consumed. Yeah. Yeah. Even if you just focus on like the potato continuum, if you will, you got like boiled potatoes all the way on one side. It's, you know, the least processed form. It is cooked. Right. And yeah, you get a relatively simple flavor profile, mouthfeel, et cetera. Right. And then. All right. So now we're going to take a cooked potato and we're going to add some seasoning to it and some toppings. Right. So it's a little more tasty, a little more complex, a little bit more likely to cause an increase in calorie consumption. Because we're we're, you know, evolutionarily, we've, you know, migrated towards this these behaviors where we seek out things that we know are have a lot of energy in them. That's that's kind of what we've been designed to do. OK. So now we go from the potato with some toppings on it to what if you fry it? What if you fry it and we add we tweak, you know, the sodium, the salt content and the fat content in just a certain way. Like, oh, well, now it's even even more. Oh, well, what if we engineer the mouthfeel to be like crunchy or like melt in your mouth? And it goes even further on the continuum and you ultimately end up at like whatever your tastiest sort of potato chip is or French fry variation. And it's like, well, yeah, no kidding. You're going to consume more calories from that compared to the bowl of boiled potatoes. Does that make sense to you? A hundred percent. That's exactly it. Yeah. So I think an engineered food matrix, I kind of like that. And maybe it's just a bad one because you could theoretically engineer it the other way. Like, you know, a food matrix got a ton of micronutrients in it and fiber and protein and whatever. But this is maybe a bad food matrix effect. And ultimately, the goal from the food industry here is to achieve that bliss point. Now, this was a term that was coined by Howard Moskowitz. He's an American market researcher and psychophysicist. And this is the point where the levels of saltiness, sweetness and richness were perceived by the consumer to be just right. You can think of this food matrix effect by comparison, you know, this steak or a head of broccoli. They got built in stoplights, structural components like intact fiber and complex proteins that force your body to do work. These elements regulate the speed of digestion and they send clear signals to your brain that says, hey, look, we've had enough. But when the industry dismantles that matrix, they're not just making the food easier to eat. They're clearing a path for a specific sensory payload. They take that blank molecular canvas and they engineer this bliss point that overrides the brain's stop signals. In a whole food environment, your body's got brakes. But in this ultra processed food environment or food experience, the industry has turned all the stoplights to green and they cut the brake lines. They've created a product that provides maximum reward with little biological feedback. We've got some decent data on this. Dr. Kevin Hall, he's a titan in the space, he did this experiment that showed that even when we control for single nutrients, people on average will eat about 500 more calories of ultra processed foods per day. Now, Austin, I want you to unpack that. If this isn't just a simple sugar spike or something like that or insulin spike, what is actually happening between these engineered foods and the brain that makes these calories so invisible to our satiety system? And why is that such a problem? Yeah, I don't actually think that we have a super clear understanding on this just yet. I think if you ask Dr. Hall that, who I've heard him be asked this type of question, he finds it super intriguing. And there are some hypotheses and some ideas, but we still don't have a perfect understanding of this. To the extent we do have some ideas, it can inform some potential ideas for things that we can do, mainly in the realm of like what's called food reformulation, trying to make products that do hit these satiation centers and things like that. Of course, the challenge then is, well, what's the incentive for food companies to do that, to make foods that are more fulfilling and satisfying that people are going to consume less of? But we know, for example, that when there's less bulk fiber, water content, of course, there's less of that mechanical stretch that's going to happen in the stomach and downstream hormonal signaling. If there's foods that even melt in your mouth, then don't even require chewing. We know that people tend to spontaneously consume more calories from, you know, sugar sweetened beverages that go down quick and easy and are tasty and carbonated and cold and things like that compared with, you know, other forms of equivalent calorie expenditure intake. Excuse me. And then, yeah, all of this downstream hormonal signaling, we can see a lot of these things when they are measured. Not all of them show meaningful differences. Some of them do. And then the question is, well, how much of a role are these even playing? Is it kind of an epi phenomenon? Is it happening at the same time, but not driving the difference in intake? Or is it actually driving the difference in intake? And so that means that that should be a target for intervention. So I do not have a confident answer for this, and I don't actually think that anybody does. That's why Dr. Kevin Hall's research was so useful and important and why it is so unfortunate that he is not currently doing any more of that research by virtue of having, you know, been kind of pushed out of the NIH this past year. But that is a prime area for us to get better understanding. And then from there, we need to, you know, on a different level than setting up the food environment for people, we almost need to set up the business environment for companies to be able to spontaneously formulate foods that achieve the health goals that we're looking for for the public. There are so many layers of complexity there and policy there that are well beyond our expertise. But it's an interesting way to think about it. It's like we need to identify these variables, figure out which ones are most potent in terms of achieving the impacts we're looking for, and then set up that business environment so that it becomes the natural, rational path of least resistance for these companies to make the products that are compatible with our public health goals. Yeah. Yeah, that's actually, that raises an interesting question for the lawsuit against big food, because the food industry's defense isn't just, hey, look, we make tasty food. Their defense is that they're simply following the rules. They're meeting every USDA and FDA guideline for shelf stable, fortified and convenient foods. But if our regulatory bodies don't even recognize the food matrix and the satiety profile of foods as important variables, are the companies the villains? Are they just taking the most efficient path in a flawed game? Now, we're going to take a quick break to hear from our sponsors. But when we come back, we're moving from the intent of the manufacturers to the physical toll on the consumer. We're going to look at the 14 percent of adults who meet the criteria for food addiction and the hard data on just how much this flawed game is hurting us. Stick around. It's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. If you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep or cook, Factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dieticians and crafted by chefs that you could eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet or even a plant based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, Factor has you covered. When I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen. And Factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen. And a meal is ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home cooked meal without the stress. If your schedule is busy like mine, I think Factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first Factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new Factor customers with the code.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop out the middlemen to deliver luxury materials like cashmere, wool, and Italian leather all at a fraction of the price. Their outerwear is particularly impressive. From down jackets to wool coats, everything is made by trusted factories with rigorous ethical standards. I've been wearing some of their cashmere sweaters lately because the holiday party round, you know. Now they're soft, they're durable, and they're holding up better than brands that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresh your winter wardrobe at quince.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365 day returns. They're now in Canada too. That's quince.com slash bbm. Free shipping and 365 day returns. quince.com slash bbm. All right, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine podcast. Before the break, we were talking about the bliss point and how the food industry has essentially hacked human satiety. But the San Francisco lawsuit isn't just arguing that this engineering makes food hard to stop eating. They're making the legal claim that these products are also addictive, and the data suggests that they aren't exaggerating. According to research by Gearheart in 2022, 14% of adults and 12% of children now meet the clinical criteria for food addiction using the Yale Food Addiction Scale. This scale applies the same DSM-5 criteria used for alcohol and tobacco, things like loss of control, continued use despite harm, and intense cravings to continue these food practices. Now to put that statistic into perspective, that is a prevalence rate that's comparable to alcohol use disorder, and it's significantly higher than tobacco use disorder. So this suit argues that the industry's bliss point, again, that perfect ratio of salt, sugar, and fat is engineered to hit the brain's reward center so hard and so fast that it decouples eating from actual calorie needs. So the lawsuit sits right in the middle of a major academic divide regarding food addiction, and there are two major theories here. The first model is the substance model, where addictive substances are rarely single agents, just as cigarettes are a complex mixture engineered to deliver nicotine as fast as possible. Well, highly processed foods are complex mixtures of refined carbohydrates and fats designed for rapid absorption. Here, the food is the drug. And then there's the second model. This is the behavioral model. So again, true substance use disorders require a single identifiable chemical compound that directly activates the central nervous system, like nicotine, ethanol, or cocaine. In the food world, well, we haven't found that nicotine. People don't abuse pure sugar or butter outside of like some weird social media trends. Instead, they overconsume a wide variety of foods that differ in texture, flavor, and composition. Therefore, the addiction isn't to a substance. It's to the act of eating in a specific context. So for example, after food restriction and weight loss, humans and rodents' behavior usually changes to a markedly increased intake in calories. And this isn't because the food has changed. It's because the physiological state of the person or the rodent has changed. So what we're calling addiction is actually the brain's natural homeostatic response to dieting or restriction. And the environment, in this case, triggers a specific uncontrolled pattern of eating behavior. So this particular model favors like addictive-like behaviors or uncontrolled eating. Now, Austin, I tend to favor this behavioral model here. What do you think about that? Yeah, I agree. I think it's quite, it's maybe a little bit, feels too straightforward because when you, well, when you look at the substance model, you're right that people don't just sit in front of a bowl of pure granulated sugar and just binge on that or drink a gallon of olive oil or something like that. Not only that, but people will end up developing, say, obesity and its associated complications when it comes from, you know, overconsumption of certain foods. There's a wide variation in the types of foods that people tend to consume. So it cannot be a single substance model when there's so much variation. Whereas with alcohol, it's like, yeah, there's different forms, be it wine or liquor or beer or something else. But the, but we have identified the specific component in there, the ethanol that is driving the behaviors. And so, of course, there's also psychosocial context and all sorts of things around the use of that substance. But the ethanol itself is the kind of the determining substance there. And that is what we don't have for food. So different people get there through different means, but kind of the commonality is the experience. And so that's why I think I agree that the behavioral model is by far the better explanation compared with a single substance model. Now, the individual aspects of these substances, the sweetness, the saltiness, the savoriness, the satiating value or lack thereof, all those things do play roles as well. But I don't think that we're ever going to identify, oh, this is the single, you know, food component or certainly like a nutrient that contributes to overconsumption. Yeah, the substance model is interesting because, again, it almost requires like a specific mixture, right, of, yeah, maybe it's a specific mixture of salt, fat, acid, you know, whatever, and sugar, which would maybe support that. But then you're still taking it out of the context, right, and out of the environment, which I think it plays a very strong role. So it'd be hard to be like a hard substance model person and just ignore the behavior stuff. So, yeah, as far as it, you know, appearing relatively straightforward, I think it's because we recognize that the context is important, but people can be forgiven for saying, well, look, it doesn't have to be a single nutrient, but like it can be a combination of things. And I feel like that's reasonable, but yeah, you can't remove it from the context. Now, here's where things get even more interesting. Now, look, if only 14% of adults meet this clinical criteria for addiction and ignoring any potential problems with that definition, well, that leaves 86% of individuals with obesity who don't. So why is addiction a major part of this lawsuit? Well, in a public nuisance case, you don't have to prove that everyone has an addiction to food and that subsequently causes harm. You only have to prove that the manufacturer knowingly created a product that subverts the health of a significant proportion of the community. You think of it like a dangerous bridge. If a bridge is engineered and built so poorly that 14% of cars drive off the edge of the bridge, we don't say, well, look, 86% of people made it across. So the bridge is fine. We fixed the bridge. Now, the 14% of folks who meet this Yale food addiction criteria are the canaries in the coal mine here. They prove that the product has the biological capacity to override human agency. Now, once that is established, the industry's personal responsibility defense, the idea that everyone is just choosing what to eat, collapses. So you establish that the bridge is broken, that human agency is being overridden. And the next logical question for the court is, what is the actual damage? In a public nuisance case, you have to prove special injury or widespread harm to the community. And there's some pretty good evidence here. A recent British medical journal umbrella review of nearly 10 million people is helpful at assessing the cost of the modern food environment. So high intake of ultra-processed foods is associated with A-50% increased risk of cardiovascular disease-related death. For every 10% increase in the proportion of ultra-processed foods in the diet, that's associated with a 12% increased risk of type 2 diabetes, a dose-dependent relationship there. There's a 55% higher risk of obesity, 22% higher risk of major depressive disorder, and a number of other common medical conditions all increase with increased consumption of ultra-processed foods. Now, if you read the headlines on this, they often claim these risks remained even after researchers adjusted for total calorie intake and BMI, which is unlikely, if not implausible. The industry's defense is always, well, a correlation doesn't equal causation. These people just have bad lifestyles. But in a public nuisance case, you don't need a single smoking gun. You need a preponderance of evidence. When nearly 10 million people show that every 10% increase in these foods correlates to a 12% jump in type 2 diabetes, the lifestyle excuse starts to look a lot like a cover story for a rigged deck. Now, Austin, there's another layer here. Many of these studies try to adjust for calorie intake, and they claim that the harm still exists. But we know that self-reported dietary data is notoriously unreliable. People consistently under-report their energy intake, especially when it comes to highly processed foods that they're, quote, addicted to or otherwise over-consuming. If the primary nuisance of these foods is that they drive a massive spontaneous calorie surplus, does it even make sense to try and find a risk independent of calories? Are we missing the forest for the trees by ignoring that overeating is the harm? Yeah, I think that you're right, that under-reporting of calories is super common in the same way that over-reporting of energy expenditure through exercise is also common. We have direct data looking at this where the randomizing groups to receive these ultra-process predominant diets versus more, quote, unquote, whole food diets leads to this spontaneous over-consumption. So you're right that the overeating is the spontaneous result. It is quite apparent. It is very difficult to refute or deny at this point. I do think that there is some increase in risk independent of calories. And for example, we have evidence that we are able to make health-promoting food substitutions and swaps that lead to improvements in health outcomes, even if people don't lose weight, for example. That's a well-known phenomenon. But I do think that the bigger kind of beast that we're wrangling with here is the overall energy intake and its impact on, you know, body mass and the downstream consequences of excess adiposity. Yeah. Yeah. I think the biggest lever that's changing is that, look, people are spontaneously consuming more calories. And that's due to the engineering of the food. But that doesn't mean that nothing else is going on under the hood. Like if you strip out enough fiber and then you took that same group of people and you had them add in foods with add more fiber, but they didn't lose any weight or didn't change calorie consumption, we'd likely see some health benefits. Those would be modest compared to if there's also controlled for energy intake. Exactly. Yes. Yeah. So to me, overeating is kind of the feature here. But this brings us to the ultimate pragmatic question for 2026. If the core problem is that these foods have broken our internal satiety meters and we see this body count mounting in the data, why are we waiting on a 10-year legal battle to fix the food supply? We've got these GLP-1 medications and other anti-obesity medications that literally bridge that signaling gap pharmacologically. Is this lawsuit a slow motion solution to a biological problem that we've already solved? I think it is a potential solution, but also the pragmatic aspects of this create challenges. And it's part of why I think attacking these from both ends is worthwhile. What I mean by that is that, yeah, we have essentially, quote unquote, solved this biologically or pharmacologically with the medicines, but we're still faced with the practical reality of like, okay, so is our solution to continue letting the food environment run rampant and get every single human on one of these medicines? Some people, some companies, in fact, would love that idea. I think there are a lot of challenges to that, both cost, financial tolerability, not everybody can safely take these medicines for various reasons, things like that. And so to the extent we can address the food environment, I mean, that's the bigger umbrella aspect of this whole situation that for some people, still not for everyone, but for some people would obviate the need for the medicines or attacking it on an individual level. People are just super different. Some people, even with a perfect food environment, will manage to develop obesity. This has been recognized as long as recorded history has existed. And those folks are the ones who are most likely to benefit from these anti-obesity treatments and metabolic bariatric surgery and things like that. It's only once the environment reaches this critical level that we're at right now, where a much larger swath of the population ends up being impacted. And that big additional swath, those are the people who, yep, they can benefit from these medicines. I see it and do it every day in practice. But also if we did manage to shift the environment substantially, they might not need them either. And so kind of like, it's worth attacking this both ways. Yeah. Yeah. I think we obviously agree on that. And I think most people would agree. Yeah. Por que no los dos. Let's do both here. But when you start thinking about what would be needed to meaningfully change the food environment, you're like, okay, so yeah, this lawsuit has to be won. And then there needs to be a massive overhaul of like subsidies, food company manufacturing practices. And then the built environment, like so many things would need to change and like how long that would take if it even was accepted. And like all these things were like, it's almost like you're paying lip service to it. You're like, yeah, yeah, no, we should do that for sure. But like pretty skeptical that anything would change enough to really, again, obviate the need for, hey, nobody needs to be on GLP ones anymore because the food environment is awesome. Yeah. I don't see that as a realistic end state, but and you're right that there's the complexity of both a very legal, legalistic, litigious society that kind of bogs things down for years to decades at a time working through those types of processes. And then there's also the cultural component, right? They're like in the US, at least the culture of, you know, very strong individualism. And I get to choose whatever I want to the extent that they're actually choosing, et cetera. You can trust that because there are other societies around the world that have much more favorable food environments and built environments around them for exercise and spontaneous physical activity and all sorts of other sorts of things. But the idea that we're going to transpose that onto our society and that it will work and be accepted and get rapid uptake and things like that. Yeah. Super, super unlikely. So I agree that the realistic kind of from a pragmatic perspective, and that's why the medicines are doing what they are right now, whereas the state of our food environment is not like meaningfully improving, I would say, day to day, week to week or year to year. Can you imagine? So let's just let's let's go to bizarro world here. The lawsuit is one. Okay. Policies changed. The incentives for food manufacturers also change. Right. And everything just overnight, you made wave a magic wand. Boom. It's different. It's perfect. The food environment is. People still are going to remember these hyperpalatable foods. Yeah. Is this like a prohibition era like type thing? It starts popping up. You go, there's like a speakeasy, but it's for like snacks. Yeah. People are going to be ordering, you know, these things off eBay from like, you know, years prior when they still when they still used to make this particular food product. Oh, yeah, totally. You got Twinkies, bro. Where did you get these? Yeah. So we've established that the current food environment is problematic. But if we're going to fix it or if the court's going to regulate it, we have to define what it is. And right now, the legal and scientific world is obsessed with the nolva food classification system. We've talked about this a few times, but nolva, it's not an acronym. It's just a four letter word. It's capitalized oddly for some unknown reason that groups foods into four categories with group four being ultra processed. But this is problematic for from two major perspectives. First, classifying a high quality whey protein isolate or ultra filtered milk in the same category as an Oreo, just because they're both group four ultra processed foods is like saying a bicycle and a Boeing 747 are the same because they both contain metal. One is an engineered tool designed for a specific performance or health outcome. And the other is an engineered trap for overconsumption. By lumping them together, we aren't helping people change their behavior. We're just confusing them because the public doesn't really understand this anyway. This is the second point. And even if they did, does it really change behavior to just know better? Most people know that broccoli is healthier than a Twinkie, irrespective of intricate knowledge regarding processing or the nolva food classification system. But that doesn't stop them from eating the Twinkie. Just imagine if we labeled all of these ultra processed foods group four. It's like a red sign on the front. Is that meaningfully going to change food behavior? There are some countries that have experimented with the so-called traffic light system, and there is some impact on food related behaviors, whether that is enough to, again, just shift the entire population's risk profile, drop, you know, population wide BMIs by a few points, you know, put diabetes into remission, less and less likely. But I also don't think that it's realistic to expect that a single intervention like that is itself going to be, you know, unlocking, you know, this entire problem, it's likely going to be multi-pronged, multifactorial, incremental benefits from a variety of different things, whether labeling, reformulation, you know, all sorts of other things that, you know, could be trialed. Yeah. You're not going to get a 20% benefit from one thing. You're going to get a 1% benefit from 20 things. You got to do all of them to make a significant difference. Yeah. And I think the core issue here regarding, you know, processing and narratives around just don't eat any processed foods is that processing isn't just one thing. So there can be functional processing, which includes things like freezing vegetables or making Greek yogurt or making canned beans, you know, shelf stable or ultra filtered milk. Yeah. They're processed, but the processing is used to improve shelf life, convenience and nutrient density without necessarily hacking your satiety signals. And then there's hyperpalatable processing. This is the nuisance. These are products engineered for that bliss point, stripping the fiber out, adding the perfect ratio of salt, sugar, and fat purely to drive consumption. They're both processing. They're just different and lead to different outcomes. So let's say that the nolva system is refined to a satisfactory level, properly identifying only the foods that cause unique harm through overeating and any other unique mechanisms. That would be awesome, right? Our food supply would have more satiety stoplights. So less people would be likely to overeat and all would be well in the world. You have this magic wand. We wave it and make every calorie in America minimally processed. We would likely see a massive spontaneous reversal in the obesity epidemic, but there's a catch. Sure, it's generally better for humans to eat a minimally processed whole food diet, but we have to be careful to not turn health into a luxury good. We tell everyone avoid all group four foods. Are we creating a health literacy barrier that only the wealthy can cross? Imagine a single parent living in a food desert and they can only afford group four shelf stable foods to feed their kids and their family. Are we as clinicians doing more harm by pathologizing their only accessible food source? In the real economy of 2026, fresh produce and minimally processed meats are increasingly expensive. By reducing access to all ultra process options, the cost of groceries could go up even more for folks who are currently the most victimized by this food environment. We're basically telling them that, look, you're poisoning yourself and you can't afford a whole food lifestyle. So tough luck. And this is why I get so frustrated with the silly targets that are currently hijacking the conversation. We've got RFK Jr. focusing on red dye 40 and seed oils and removing the advice to reduce saturated fat intake in the latest guidelines, none of which help people make healthier food choices more accessible or more affordable. It just makes the still processed food more expensive. Focusing on food dye while ignoring a 500 calorie satiety gap is like trying to fix a sinking ship by repainting the lifeboats. The nuisance isn't the seed oil or the food dye. The nuisance is the engineered lack of satiety and the energy toxicity that has subsequently resulted. Now, Austin, if we spend our limited behavioral capital with patients telling them to hunt for red dye 40 or avoid canola oil, we don't have anything left to help them address the actual big levers like their micro food environments, their food preparation skills and so on. So as a clinician, how do you help a patient navigate a world where minimally processed is the goal, but ultra processed is the reality? How do we give them a strategy that works for their budget without making them feel like they're only affordable food options or a moral failure? This is a very challenging question and one that I don't think a lot of clinicians are necessarily very well equipped to address directly outside of the dietetics field where they have much more extensive training in how to assess a patient, their current situation, their needs, and how best to achieve their goals for the best health outcomes and things like that. Because obviously, you know, we can talk about this at multiple levels. We've already addressed it at the macro level, like the big food environment that we all live in, as well as what you described as kind of the more micro environment, your immediate surroundings. Those are different things that might require different strategies to help somebody work through. Recognizing that somebody's food and eating related behaviors are somewhat, at least somewhat automatic and a little bit less consciously controlled than we would like. And also, there's all sorts of other influences, like what types of foods they grew up with, what types of foods they know how to prepare, what types of foods they prefer, and whether they have any experience making, eating, or even, you know, ideally enjoying certain types of foods as well, can be a perfectly healthy and normal part of life. And so when we're doing our own assessments and talking to patients, getting a sense of what does their habitual diet look like, and what are some reasonable and accessible potential substitutions? Because there are, in fact, highly economical options that can be substituted into people's diets to displace or substitute for some of the less health promoting options, but figuring out what those are on an individual level that fit their kind of cultural practices and what types of foods they are comfortable and have the access and the ability to prepare might be the challenge, right? So there have been these kind of guideline statements that have come out, you know, over time that advise a very particular dietary pattern. Let's call one, for example, the Mediterranean diet. Well, if this person that I'm talking to is from, you know, a village in rural Africa, or they're coming from, you know, Southeast Asia or something like, these are just fundamentally different diets. And so it's very difficult to transpose one on the other. And so we're looking at, you know, our most highly satiating foods, looking at things like very high foods with very high contents of fiber per calorie and things like that, we're looking at legumes are a very predominant aspect of my diet, your diet, a lot of the diets that we end up recommending certain types of seafood to the extent that that's accessible to the person frozen foods to include frozen vegetables and fruits, very common, very accessible for a lot of people. You mentioned ultra filtered milk, that has a little bit of a price premium on it compared with more traditional milk, it kind of depends on somebody's preferences and their tolerability. But definitely looking for these foods that are accessible to the person preferable to them that contain plenty of protein and fiber per calorie, and are within their budgets and things like that. So those are some of the features that we might look for early on to find substitutions to compare with what they're habitually consuming on a regular basis. Yeah. And knowing you, you know, and the way you go about, you know, talking to a patient, interviewing them, you're leading more with open ended questions. Tell me what you eat. What do you like to eat? Tell me your, you know, tell me about your cooking experience. Yeah, basically trying to get a sense of where they're at to again, find threads, opportunities for potential improvement, as well as opportunities to leverage the resources that they already have access to, because you could lay out the perfect dietary pattern for somebody, make them a grocery list, macros, calories, the whole thing. And they're like, I don't know how to cook. Right. Go back to square one. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, yeah, you probably should have picked that up earlier. You don't need the plan first. You need to, you know, where is this person starting for? And then as the professional, help them navigate that roadmap, ultimately trying to make them more competent at navigating this environment. But yeah, most people jump right to the solution. And it's like, you sure this is like universally applicable or. Yeah. I mean, to go back even further from where you were starting, my question is like, why is this person talking to me? Like what led them to talk to me today? Right. Because then, as I've talked about in many other contexts with behavior change, it's like trying to find what is the thing that I can advise that ties into something meaningful to you? Like, why do you care about this? And how can I make what I care about also something that you care about? Yep. Yeah, exactly. And even if it like, even if this whole, the conversation just went sideways, the person recognizes that their dietary pattern could be improved. They recognize that they have some elements that are controllable and they can make those changes. Right. But they can't make all of them or they can't make a significant amount of them just for whatever reason. Right. Whether it's time, whether it's financial resources, so on and so forth. That doesn't mean they can't get any benefit out of making some change. And perhaps they're more amenable to a different sort of health promoting behavior, like increasing exercise, for example. You know, if a person was originally there to talk to you about their weight and whatever, and then ultimately you couldn't come to a satisfactory resolution as far as this is our initial plan moving forward. It's checking all the boxes. It's the perfect patient. Yep. And you brought up, you know, how do you feel about exercise? And they were like, hmm, yeah, I would be open to that. Like, again, you've just benefited this person and they've benefited their own trajectory there. So a lot of different options here to help them be more competent in navigating this environment. Now, we spent this whole episode talking about how the food industry has engineered a public health crisis. But lawsuits take years and your health is happening right now. We can't just wait for the courts to fix the food supply. We've got to take some action. So here are some strategies for navigating a rigged game. First off, we're starting in the grocery store. So if you have hyper palatable, ultra processed foods in your house, the really tasty treats, you're going to have to use willpower every single day to resist them. Your dietary RPE is going to be high, at least for most folks. But if you make a commitment to avoid buying those things in the first place, when you go to the grocery store, you only have to use your willpower budget once. If the bliss point isn't in your pantry, the environment can't exploit your satiety signals at 9 p.m. on a Tuesday when you're tired. The second part is going to be related to food preparation. Now, based on survey data, six out of 10 adults ate food from either a fast food or full service restaurant in the past 24 hours. This is a problem that has mostly to do with calories. The more meals that are consumed from fast food or full service restaurants per week, the higher someone's BMI is on average. By contrast, the more meals that are prepared inside the home tend to be lowering calories, tend to have smaller portions and are more satiating than when eating out. When you cook at home, you're the engineer. You're more in control than if you go to a restaurant. So spending some of this behavior change budget on learning how to prepare and store food, in addition to shifting towards preparing more meals at home in general, I think that'd be a good use of resources. The third part of this strategy is going to be changing your micro food environment. You can't really do much about the built environment around us, at least not in the short term, but we're trying to make the path of least resistance more healthy in the places you spend the most time. So we're trying to kind of add friction towards behaviors that we don't want while reducing friction to behaviors we do want. So again, if you have these hyper palatable snacks, maybe they're for the kids, you can't avoid buying them or for guests that come in the home. We'll keep them out of sight. There's been some thought to place them in like opaque containers and place them high in the pantry, keeping them out of sight, out of mind, and ultimately reducing the marketing sort of drive or desirability drive. And instead keeping high satiety tools, fruit, vegetables, ultra filtered milk, jerky, whatever at eye level or otherwise easily accessible. And the office is often a high density food swamp of donuts and vending machines and other treats that people bring in. But you could treat your desk like a little micro oasis. You could bring your own protein powder, other high protein, high satiety snacks so that you aren't forced to rely on willpower in the break room. Presumably you go to work on most days. So that would be a good change. And lastly, you can change the eating environment. This is something that people probably have the most control over. So when you're sitting there eating while scrolling your phone or watching TV, you're essentially muting your brain's ability to monitor satiety signals, feelings of fullness. You're increasing this biological blindness to how full you are, how many calories you're consuming. So we advise or I advise often trying to eat distraction free, no screens, all right, to allow both the mechanical and chemical stop signals to be heard and otherwise realized. And if eating at the same time also appears to have some benefit. So we eat at similar times each day that tends to help regulate hunger hormones like ghrelin, for example, and your body starts knowing when to expect energy, how much energy it's getting. And so these spikes in hunger become more predictable and easier to manage and ultimately can lead to more successful outcomes. Now, all of that in place, there are still going to be individuals in this modern environment that are going to have trouble regulating their body composition and their body weight to a level that sort of optimizes their health trajectory. So Austin, what are some other interventions that can be useful here? Yeah, a lot of this depends on the additional kind of details of the person. So to the extent that there are some of these experienced psychological aspects around their eating behaviors, working with some form of a therapist or a dietician might help to work through some of that person's individual issues, predispositions, tendencies, behavior patterns that they're having a little bit of difficulty kind of working through.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop receptor agonists, multi-agonists, and some of our other weight management-related medicines, basically because the aim here is to improve people's health outcomes, improve their longevity, reduce the risk of complications related to obesity, and to give them essentially more control over their day-to-day life. And that is one of the most interesting and compelling things that I see and hear from patients in whom I use these medicines now on a daily basis, where they tell me, look, I was able to lose weight repeatedly over the years. I've lost and regained the same 30, 50, 100 pounds multiple times over the years. I know how to do these things, but the use of this medicine gives me control to do and sustain those things that I already knew I needed to be doing, right? And so it makes it so that they don't have to have that high RPE, that daily, I have to wake up and go to war every day just to avoid the things that set them down the wrong path. Because to your point, I tell people a lot, if it's in the house, it's going down the hatch for a lot of people and because of how automatic this is. So these tools give people more control and let them do the things they already know that they wanted and needed to do. And then finally, we have metabolic bariatric surgery, which I still am quite proud of that podcast episode that we did a couple years ago. I think it was an exceptional kind of overview of that topic. And I still think that it is an underutilized, under-referred for resource, particularly for those who have been struggling with this the most and for the longest. So these are some kind of higher level interventions, things that are worth discussing with your physician to see if they're appropriate for you if you're in this situation. Yeah. I think a lot of this, you know, reticence to maybe use medications or therapy or metabolic bariatric surgery, accessing that has to do with this sort of like moral underpinning to like, it matters how you got there. Well, how did you lose the weight? How did you maintain the weight loss? And it's like, look, if these, you know, pick yourself up by the bootstrap sort of efforts, you know, just try harder, eat less, move more. If those were more successful, we would be bigger champions of people doing that, you know, in isolation. But unfortunately, because of the modern environment and because most food-related practices have at least some element of subconscious, you know, integration going on, they're just not that successful. Yeah. And so ultimately, we want people to be successful and to put them on a better health trajectory. And so having additional resources can be useful. All right, let's wrap this up. The San Francisco lawsuit against Kraft, Hines, and others is more than just a legal battle over cookies and soda. It is a reckoning with the idea that the personal responsibility defense has reached its expiration date. As the obesity epidemic has grown over the last 50 years, we've been told that health is a solo mission of macros and willpower. But the data shows that when you put a humanin a precisely engineered environment, the outcome is predictable. And for most folks, it isn't good. The industry has spent decades using the playbook from big tobacco to ensure that the path of least resistance leads directly to the bliss point. They turn the satiety stoplights green and cut the brake lines. And then they blame the consumer for the crash. Proving that these foods are a public health nuisance isn't about calling people addicts. It's about acknowledging that human agency cannot thrive in a rigged environment. But as practitioners, we've got to be honest. A decade-long courtroom drama won't fix your health tomorrow, and we cannot let silly targets like food dyes or seed oils distract us from the actual structural problems of energy density and food matrix integrity. We can't turn health into a luxury good that only the wealthy can afford. Now, ideally, this lawsuit would allow the food industry to create healthy, low-cost, desirable foods. But banning all hyperpalatable foods seemed problematic, perhaps creating a black market for these types of food, as if we were back in the prohibition era. Future concerns aside, what should you do now? Your action plan is to stop playing defense against a rigged food environment and start playing offense on your micro environment. When you shop for food, aim to limit how much hyperpalatable ultra-processed foods you buy. Using willpower once a week is likely to be more successful than doing it every day after the kids are asleep. Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. Not all processed food is bad. If a processed food provides 30% or more of its calories from protein and has more than one gram of fiber per 10 grams of carbohydrates, it can be a tool for your success, not a trap for your satiety. You can engineer your own environment. Use friction. Put high-reward foods out of sight and high-satiety tools at eye level. Turn your home and your desk into a micro-oasis. You can reclaim your signaling by eating undistracted. Let your brain hear the signals your gut is trying to send. And if all of those signals are still not quite right, speak to your physician about additional tools, whether it's therapy, metabolic bariatric surgery, or anti-obesia medications, we now have to repair them. The city of San Francisco is suing to fix the environment for the community. But until that bridge is fixed, you are the architect of your own environment. Let's go to work. For Dr. Austin Baraki and the entire team at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Thanks for listening. We'll see you next week on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. If you're a podcast host, listen up, this one's for you. My name is Allie Jackson. I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle. And I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform. With Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in ad sales. It's not just typical ad sales either. It's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple. You just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You can vet every opportunity and their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast on social media to really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle. I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to redcircle.com to get your free trial. That's redcircle.com for a free trial.

=== FILE: Episode 384： The Paralyzed Personal Trainer (Mystery Case) [cQvBALAT10U].txt ===

 ab excuses, physically active and otherwise healthy. After a two-day period of binge eating and rapid weight gain, he decides on a radical course of action. He starts exercising like crazy and eating at a massive deficit. In the next two weeks, he loses 22 pounds or about 13% of his starting body weight. By the end of that time, he also realizes something is wrong. He can't lift his right foot. It hangs limp. To move around, he has to lift his knee towards his chest in an exaggerated, high-stepping motion just to keep his toes from dragging on the floor. He waits. He hopes it will resolve. But a year later, the paralysis is still there. And today, we're breaking down the medical mystery case of the paralyzed personal trainer. Welcome back to the Barber Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm doing okay. Excited to be here. Feeling well, how are you? I'm all right. I got another mystery case for you involving a frequent guest of our podcast, the personal trainer. My prediction is that you're not gonna get it. 50-50 shot, it's a supplement problem. Could be, could be. Are you ready? I think so. I think so. Can I have one little preamble first? So just an interesting kind of anecdote is that we heard from a podcast listener recently who after listening to one of our other recent mystery case episodes that ended up being a case of vitamin D toxicity ended up actually recognizing symptoms in himself that were potentially related. Got his lab tests checked, and sure enough, he had also vitamin D toxicity. And then this is another case that I saw recently in my telemedicine patient population, a woman whose vitamin D level was just reported as greater than 150, essentially off the charts, off behind of the chart. And that was many months ago. And I asked, what were you told to do after that lab result? And she told me that she was told to reduce her high dose vitamin D supplementation from taking it twice weekly down to taking it once weekly. I said, that is also unwise, and we should probably stop it altogether because this is gonna last a long time before it gets better. And so we've caught multiple cases of vitamin D toxicity now in people who are kind of supplementing not truly like mega dosing, just taking more than they need in inappropriate contexts. So, you know, buyer beware out there. Is this vitamin D maxing? Is that what this is called? An inadvisable strategy. We're currently in fiber maxing mode, so advise that over vitamin D maxing. Great. All right, well, Austin, I have a console for you. Okay, let's do it. The patient is a 24 year old male. He's in the emergency room right now. He came in because his new girlfriend finally convinced him to get his foot looked at. For the last year, he says that his right foot has been dragging whenever he walks. Prior to that, he says he's never had any issues with his feet or his ankles, but that he probably should have gotten it looked at sooner. He says that a year ago, he went off the rails on his diet for about two days. And afterwards, he started a rapid weight loss plan where he reportedly lost 22 pounds in two weeks. He was also exercising during this time, which involved a lot of high intensity sprints, squats, and aggressive stretching. Since then, he's had this foot issue every time he walks or tries to run. He reports tripping frequently if he tries to move too quickly and that he's had to go a little lighter on legs, but otherwise he's able to work out normally. He denies any back pain, any numbness in the groin, any bowel or bladder changes, or any trauma to the area. So Austin, we've got this 24 year old with a one year history of foot drop that appeared out of the blue. The initial story involves high intensity sprints, deep squats, and aggressive stretching, but it happened right as he lost about 13% of his body mass in about two weeks. So when you see a young active guy whose foot isn't working, yet he doesn't have any back pain or trauma, how do you go about building your differential? Is he getting imaging immediately, or are you headed to the lab? Cool case, okay. So I'm gonna actually rewind a little bit from some of the kind of specificity that you layered into the case. So oftentimes when we start these things, we have a lot of clinical information, context, who the patient is, their past medical history, their details, and that kind of already gets you going in terms of narrowing things, but I like to start as broad as possible. And so I'm gonna like, you know, back up from the fact that he's young, that he's previously healthy, that he had that backstory and just say, I have a patient who is experiencing what you're telling, labeling as foot drop, or we could just, we could say there's some kind of like weakness going on in the foot, subjective, until we prove it objectively on our testing. And this is a relatively common problem just when somebody has the concern of weakness is really what I'm gonna start with, as broad and general as that is. The question when we start out with that is, is it just this kind of like generalized weakness? The person is feeling weak all over. What does that really mean? How are they describing it? How are they experiencing it? Is it more fatigue? Is it weakness in terms of shortness of breath? Sometimes people feel dizzy and they say that they feel weak, or is it what we'll call more focal? Is it in a specific area of the body? Are they unable to lift a particular limb or multiple limbs? Are they unable to lift both of their arms? Are they having trouble standing up out of a chair? These are all different things that can help us try to narrow down on where could this problem live in the patient's body. With weakness that is kind of true weakness that there's an area of the body that is not able to be moved quite normally, the way we think about it is kind of, what is the normal physiological pathway to be able to exert force? And so that all starts up in the brain. You start in the brain with kind of your pre-motor cortex, and I'm not gonna go through all the details of that, but the conscious centers that initiate volitional movement, those send their signals down the neurological axis from the brain down to the spinal cord to the nerve roots. Those come out in the spinal nerves that come out from there, those end in neuromuscular junctions that then meet up with the muscle, and then that muscle is signaled by way of depolarization, some ion shifts, things like that to contract, that muscle contraction pulls on a tendon across a joint and then moves the body part. And so we think from start to finish along that entire pathway to try to identify where could this problem be that would best explain the pattern of weakness that the patient has. So if it's in one very particular area of the body, that does tend to narrow down the places that we look. It tends to be more, is there a problem in the brain in a very particular spot? For example, people might be familiar with, oh, this patient had a stroke, and now they're not able to lift their arm afterwards. Obviously that tends to manifest much more abruptly unless the patient has it, and then for whatever reason doesn't notice it or doesn't think much of it and comes in a year later. That strokes tend to be more sudden, abrupt onset type phenomena. The other end of that kind of axis, the nerve axis as we'll call it, tends to be things at the level of the joint, the tendon, the muscle, and the nerve ending that supplies that muscle, or the nerve that supplies that muscle. Those are all other areas that can have problems leading to weakness in a particular area. So if somebody has a joint problem, they have a ruptured tendon, if there's a muscle that for whatever reason is torn or is not working for some reason, and then if there are problems like a neuropathy or a nerve problem that makes it unable to kind of stimulate and trigger that muscle to fire. Problems that arise in the spinal cord, and those are less likely in this situation because they tend, they're gonna be less likely to be so localized to just the foot. We're gonna expect to find more often other problems, like some of the things you mentioned, whether the patient might have some back pain or some urinary problems, or they would be maybe a little bit more likely to have symmetric problems on two sides of the body instead of just one foot, for example. And then thinking about the timeline of how long this has lasted. Again, I mentioned that strokes, for example, or other kind of like vascular problems tend to be sudden or abrupt, whereas the things that tend to last or develop over longer periods of time or last longer, they might be, for example, an infectious cause or an inflammatory cause that can impact the nerves, there are autoimmune diseases that can lead to nerve problems that can lead to a foot drop, for example. There can be toxic, metabolic, deficiency-type issues that can lead to nerve problems. So people with heavy alcohol use, I've actually seen this exact thing happen in people who drink far too much on an alcohol-related binge and have other sorts of concomitant problems, deficiencies, things like that. And then lastly, the other aspect of, instead of kind of these more generalized problems that can affect the health and function of nerves, would be, is there something mechanical or structural going on that is affecting the nerve? And so with foot drop in particular, that is one where there is a particular nerve that tends to be affected, and that nerve splays around the area of the knee. You can speak more to this with your background masters in anatomy, I'm more the physiology guy here. But that nerve wraps around the head of the fibula, and that then goes down and serves to fire the muscles that would help you actually lift your foot. So if there's something structural, mechanical going on in that region, for example, when people have a fibular fracture, I believe, is an example of something where that kind of trauma to that area can impact the bone and lead to a foot drop. So to summarize all of that, there's a big differential diagnosis for weakness in general. It narrows a little bit when you have weakness in a particular area. And then I'm trying to differentiate in this case, is it's something going on in the brain, a bit less likely, but not impossible, versus something more local, meaning at the level of the nerve, the muscle, the junction, things like that down in that area. And so that's kind of what I'm gonna be interrogating a little bit more for this patient. Yeah, I really like that sort of concept map that you just laid out as far as how to go from, all right, here is this problem, in this case, weakness, and how would you work through this, just in a general sense? I actually really like that for learning or even just thinking about how stuff that happens with humans anyway, you could do it for almost any either behavior or any sort of action or any sort of disease. So anything from eating all the way to like diabetes, like what needs to be involved for this thing to happen, maybe unfortunately or fortunately, depending on your perspective, you may highlight a lot of gaps in knowledge. And that happens to me quite frequently when I started thinking through an issue, I'm like, I don't really know much about that particular area. You end up down a rabbit hole and you realize you don't know even more, in which case you call an answer. Yeah, I do this a lot when I'm teaching and I have learners, residents, students with me, and they're trying to, I'm watching them try to come up with their differential diagnosis or their plan, and I just have them like pause and rewind, just like walk me through your thought process. And that simple question often gets just like wide eyes. And despite a valiant attempt, it is very quickly apparent to me how much of a grasp the person has on this topic or whether they have one of those sort of what we call well-designed kind of frameworks or schema for this problem. So what I laid out is every time I see a patient with weakness somewhere, I'm doing that exact exercise, thinking through top to bottom, where could this problem be? What could explain this? And then layering that on top of the timeline, how quickly did it develop or how long has it been going on to narrow it further? Yeah, I remember on an anatomy test, we had this, so when I was in my master's program, it's different than med school, which mostly had multiple choice type answers. That's just to standardize everything. But for the master's program, they were like, now we'll read your stuff. So just write this answer. And it was like, imagine a patient gets shot from the front of his chest, take me through all of the anatomical structures that this bullet would pass through. Yep, exactly. Immediately apparent, do you know your stuff or do you not? All right, let's dive back into this. Like it's who wants to be a millionaire, the music comes in and the lights go down low. All right, Regis. Back to our patient. Let's dive into some of this objective data to see if we can get you closer to a diagnosis. So his vital signs are normal and he appears to be a healthy young man and no apparent distress sitting upright in bed. He's already had an extensive lab workup in the emergency room. So his metabolic panel and his chemistry labs are normal, suggesting that, for example, he doesn't have anemia and his kidneys and liver appear to be functioning relatively normally. Also had a TSH, his thyroid stimulated hormone, a hemoglobin A1c to look at his fasting blood sugar, blood sugar control over the past few months and his vitamin B12 are all stone cold normal as well. They also ran some inflammatory markers, his ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate and his CRPC, reactive protein, those were both normal. And of course your favorite, he had an A&A run to look for maybe some sort of autoimmune contribution that was negative. Now on the physical exam, the motor deficit shows significant abnormalities. He's got zero out of five strength in right ankle dorsiflexion, trying to pull his toes up towards his shin and zero out of five strength in foot E version, trying to rotate his heel outwardly. The anterior and lateral compartments of the lower limb, so the front and the side are completely silent. However, his foot inversion, trying to rotate his heel inwardly, is rock solid, five out of five strength there. His plantar flexion, trying to push down against the ground at the level of the ankle, is also five out of five. We also checked his hip abduction and extension, both were symmetric and five out of five in strength. Visually, he has significant atrophy over the tibialis anterior, that's the muscle on the front of the leg, and his peroneal muscles, given that lower leg kind of a hollowed out appearance next to the shin. But the calf remains well-developed and muscular. For reflexes, his patellar and Achilles reflexes are plus two and symmetric. Sensation-wise, he's mostly intact, but he does describe a sort of dead feeling or numbness on the top of his foot, specifically in the triangular patch of skin between his big toe and his second toe, that web space. Sensory exam over the lateral calf is preserved. He also had him walk the hall, and when he did, he had to lift his right leg up really high for each step, and then his foot sort of slapped down on the ground each time. And in the ED, they said, well, look, foot drop equals bad back, so they actually sent him for some imaging. So he had plain x-rays or radiographs of the lumbar spine, the pelvis, and his right lower limb. Those were all unremarkable. He then had a MRI of his lumbar spine to look for a disc herniation or signs of nerve damage, and the report just came back. The back is pristine. No disc herniations, no foraminal stenosis, and the lumbosacral plexus looked entirely normal. So, Austin, we've got this year-long weakness with an apparently clean spine and a patient who just spent the two weeks preceding this on a crash diet. If the MRI says the source isn't the back, and history says that it started exactly when the weight vanished, how are you changing your differential, if anything? Yeah, I realized that in my prior discussion, I kept it general the whole time and never focused in on the specific context, which I'll do now, because I do have a suspicion of what could be going on here. I think the most remarkable thing about all this, honestly, is I want to know what ER has the interest, the willingness, and the capacity to do that amount of work up on a guy who came in after a year of this symptom and sent him for an MRI in the ER. That should not have happened. End of the month quotas, quotas. This is not an emergency, a department problem. But yeah, some of those labs, a little bit helpful. Most of them, I was not really expecting much to be abnormal about them. Again, I think that my suspicion of something going on in this patient's brain, which interestingly was not addressed at all here, is very, very, very low. The idea of something going on in his back, also quite low, based on the history. The exam that you're describing is just a total classic foot drop exam. What you describe as what's called a high stepping gate. And then the specific pattern of dorsiflexion and eversion being gone while maintaining the functions of the other muscles in the lower leg that are not served by that nerve. So this is a very, very focal process. There still can be generalized systemic diseases that manifest with a single nerve being down. However, not for a year. So for example, I mentioned some of those autoimmune conditions. There are certain kinds of vasculitis, for example, that can cause neuropathies developing all over the body. We call that something called mononuritis multiplex that can happen. But again, he's had one nerve that has been down for a year and no other issues that have developed. So already that takes many of those kinds of small vessel vasculitis off the table. This is much more likely now to be a local, much more likely to be a structural mechanical type problem in that area than it is something more generalized systemic, like an autoimmune disease or a deficiency, like thymine related issues that they measured B12. That wouldn't manifest this way either. So things like that. So now I'm much more honed in on something is probably going on in that particular area. And I would want to take a closer look at the level of the knee and the lower leg and the foot, which we did a pretty good neuro exam from what was described here. There has not been apparent trauma that happened in the area. The context of rapid weight loss. So let's talk through what can happen in that situation. There can be metabolic changes that can happen with rapid weight loss in terms of, say, fluctuations in glycemic issues, lipid changes that happen in the blood we've talked before. Not for example, when people undergo rapid weight loss, how that can increase the risk of gallstone formation and other sorts of things like that. Not at all relevant to this case, but just examples of there are certain physiologic changes that we expect to find when people undergo rapid weight loss in various ways. If the patient is on certain medicines and they lose a whole bunch of weight, maybe the medicine that they're taking suddenly is way more than they need and that can end up leading to downstream problems. But there are also some interesting structural and mechanical type changes that can happen. And so some of the medical students in the audience might recognize or they might have heard, for example, in the abdomen, there are certain mechanical and structural changes that can happen when people undergo rapid weight loss. So there is some normal amount of, I don't know about calling it healthy necessarily, but ever present, body fat in our abdominal compartment, for example, that sits under some of our celiac and mesenteric vessels. And so one issue that can arise when people undergo rapid weight loss is the loss of that body fat that can lead to a change in some of the configuration of those vessels, particularly as they relate to the gut. And so things like the relationship between the, I forget if it's the celiac artery or the superior mesenteric artery and the small bowel, and then that can lead to some functional obstruction, essentially, because you don't have that added padding around it. So that's one well-described phenomenon of what happens when there is a rapid loss of this fat depot in that area. And so in this context, the things that I'd be thinking about, somebody with rapid significant weight losses, A, much less likely was there some kind of deficiency that developed? No. That doesn't fit this story, this patient, that timeline. Like if you underwent two days of binge eating, he probably topped himself off on nutrients for a long period of time and vitamins and all those kind of things that can lead to this. And so losing a bunch of weight in the aftermath, you would still not become abruptly deficient, nor would you stay deficient enough to lead to this presentation for a year afterwards. So that doesn't fit at all the timing and the context here. So I'm much more concerned about a mechanical, like a local structural type phenomenon. I'd be curious about what has his weight trajectory been ever since that initial weight loss? Like did he lose that 22 pounds? And then he either maintained it or he continued to lose weight. Because if he had, then that could actually fit, where there is some normal body fat in all of these little areas. And when you lose it, there can become structural and mechanical changes. And there is this phenomenon known as slimmer's paralysis, where patients who lose a bunch of weight abruptly, they can end up with issues in the legs, including things like foot drop as a result of, just like in that abdominal compartment losing body fat, changing the orientation of the nerves and the muscles relative to the bones. And they can become compressed and a compressed nerve, a chronically compressed nerve is an unhappy nerve that doesn't really work as well to fire the muscles. And that can lead to the downstream dysfunction and atrophy and things like that. So that's kind of what I'm worried about. What I would do next, of course, is look back at his weight trajectory to see what exactly has happened there. And then I might engage, because I don't personally perform things like nerve conduction studies or something like that. And if that is, I don't even think it's really necessary to make the diagnosis here. But if you wanted to, for academic purposes, to really localize the lesion to that focal site, that would be a way to do that. Well, fortunately or unfortunately, again, depending on your perspective, you're going to have to do some interpretation of some nerve conduction studies. Don't worry, I've tried to make this as accessible as possible not only for you, but also for our audience and for me, certainly. Yeah, yeah. This is stuff that's typically in the territory of neurologists and PM&R or physiatry doctors, not internists, but what we do. I turfed this to my neurology friend to get some feedback on this to make sure we're accurate. So since the spine was clean on the MRI, we do have to start looking elsewhere, like the muscles and nerves themselves. You walked us through that process quite nicely. So electrodiagnostic studies were ordered, which are divided into two parts here. One, nerve conduction study, and then electromyography, which you might know better as EMG. Now, for the listeners at home, you can think of the nerve conduction studies as a technician testing a fiber optic cable. They tap into one end of the nerve. They send a pulse down it, and they measure three specific things. First, they measure latency. This is the time it takes for the signal to start, essentially the reaction time of the nerve. Second, they measure amplitude. This is the strength or the volume of the signal, which tells us how many individual nerve fibers or axons are actually alive and functioning. And third, they test velocity, the speed at which the signal travels down the wire, which tells us if the insulation or myelin sheath is still intact. Now, in this patient, when they tested the motor division of the common peroneal nerve, the results were definitive, non-recordable across the board, no latency, no amplitude, and no measurable velocity. The motor division, the nerve's responsible for the muscles that lift the foot and turn it outward weren't working. For the anatomy nerves at home, the common peroneal nerve, as you mentioned earlier, splits into the deep peroneal nerve, which controls the tibialis anterior for dorsiflexion. Again, it's bringing your toes back towards the shin. And it also splits into the superficial peroneal nerve, which controls the peroneus longest and brevis on the outside of the lower limb for eversion, turning the foot outwardly. In this case, the entire common peroneal distribution below the knee was silent. They also checked F-waves. This is a round-trip signal that travels from the point of stimulation at the leg all the way up to the motor neurons in the spinal cord and back down again. It acts as a sort of long-range scout to see if there's a blockage anywhere from the foot to the spine. In this patient, the F-waves were also non-recordable. But then there's a twist. His sensory nerve conduction was completely normal. This measures nerves that carry feeling from the skin back to the brain. This tells us that the injury was selectively targeting the motor axons while leaving the sensory fibers largely untouched. Next, we move to the needle EMG or electromyography. This is where they stick a small electrode directly into the muscle to look at its electrical activity. Now, normal resting muscles are pretty quiet. But if a muscle has lost its nerve supply, the fibers can become kind of irritable. They start firing on their own. Now, this is a sign that the muscle has lost its nerve supply, which is also called denervation. In this patient, the tibialis anterior and the peroneal muscles showed heavy denervation. This is obvious from the atrophy that we saw in physical exam. But there's also an electrical signature called fibrillation potentials, which are these small little waves that you can pick up on EMG, another sign that the muscles have been denervated. Interestingly, when the short head of the biceps femoris, that's part of your hamstrings muscle, was tested, something strange was found. This is the only muscle supplied by the peroneal nerve that branches off above the knee. And in this patient, that muscle was stone cold normal. So, Austin, let's look at the map we've drawn. We've got a 24-year-old male with a clean MRI. We've got a nerve that can still carry sensory information, but its muscle division isn't working. The electrical block has been precisely localized. Everything above the knee is working, but everything below the knee is electrically silent from that nerve. Given that this apparently started right after his weight loss and high-intensity exercise program, do you have a final diagnosis for what the heck happened to this patient? Yeah, this has only further supported my suspicion so far. And one curiosity here, I mean, he did seem to mention that he had a little bit of some maybe subjective numbness on the dorsum of the foot, which could also fit with some of the sensory distribution of these nerves. Maybe it wasn't enough of a sensory dysfunction to be detected by the study, but yeah, a lot of that is, I would say not necessarily above my pay grade, but adjacent to it because the details of those studies are not really in my field. But yeah, this really heavily localizes it to the level of the knee. And so my suspicion is that there was either some unknown, unrecognized, unappreciated trauma with his high-intensity exercise at the time that affected the nerve at his knee during that time, or this is a case of, again, rapid weight loss induced, so-called slimmer paralysis, where the rapid fat loss in that area leads to functional kind of compression of the nerve. And again, if his weight dropped and has remained low or he never regained body fat to kind of restore padding in that area, the nerve would not really have a ability to kind of recover its function, innervate that muscle and lead to him to be able to lift his foot again. So that's kind of where I'm at. Color me impressed. The diagnosis is slimmer paralysis, historically known as dieting palsy. It is a nerve entrapment of the common peroneal nerve at the fibular head. It was once a historical rarity associated with prisoners of war and individuals with severe anorexia nervosa, but there's some concern that there could be a modern spike or uptick in cases with the increased popularity of GLP-1s. Now, the pathophysiology you did describe is mostly a functional compression, but there's some thought there's a second hit, so this sort of two-hit model. As you talked about, hit number one is the depletion of that internal armor of fat. The common peroneal nerve is pretty vulnerable because it is tethered as it winds around the neck of the fibula. That's the outside smaller bone in your lower limb. In a healthy state, it's enveloped by the structural fat pad. The fat pad acts as a mechanical shock absorber, and it physically increases the space in the fibular tunnel so the nerve isn't pinched against the bone. Now, when this guy lost 11 kilos, 22 pounds in two weeks, the body presumably mobilized fats that were so rapidly that it stripped away the structural fat pad. And so without that cushion, the nerve was left sitting directly on the bone, leaving the margin of safety for compression at zero. Now, the second hit is the mechanical provocation. So he was doing the high-intensity sprain squats, aggressive stretching, whatever that means, while his fat pad was progressively getting thinner. And so when active, that nerve needs the fat pad to dissipate pressure. Otherwise, the pressure on the nerve can get too high and disrupt blood flow to the nerve. The nerve do have a blood supply. It's pretty delicate. It's called the vasovazorum. Now, when this blood supply is compromised, nerve conduction temporarily stops, call that neuropraxia. If it's prolonged, though, the nerve can die, and it must regrow from the side of injury. And this process is slow. There's wallery and regeneration, like a millimeter a day. It's slow and it can be incomplete. That's what apparently happened to this patient. By the time he got to the emergency room, the damage was done. He had spent 12 months with basically zero motor signal reaching those muscles. The receivers, the motor end plates, and the muscles of the shin, the side of his leg, had undergone some fibrosis. They were no longer capable of receiving a signal, even if the nerve did manage to grow back. So at that point, his treatment plan shifted from neurological recovery to orthopedic salvage. He underwent a posterior tibialis tendon transfer. Essentially, the surgeons took a functioning muscle from the back of his leg and anchored it to the top of his foot. Kind of had to retrain himself how to walk and to pull his foot up with his new hardware. So there's a thought that this might be coming more common, like a pharmaceutical slimmer. The GLP-1 agonist like Terzepotide and Ritatchetide can induce weight loss velocities that mimic bariatric surgery. And while the weight of weight loss isn't necessarily a problem when it's appropriately monitored, inappropriate use, and specifically facilities that are like pill mills could be increasing the risk of this. Now the incidence of general peripheral neuropathy following metabolic bariatric surgery is reported to be somewhere between 5% to 15%. Now that's after surgery. And within this broad category, the peroneal mononuropathy, so single nerve issue, is one of the most frequently cited presentations. Historically, again, as prisoners of war, and the incidence was about 10% in these individuals, I assume that would happen over a longer period of time, just due to what was happening. But in surgical cohorts, the latest evidence we have on this is a suggest a higher percentage than 10%, maybe closer to 15%, mostly at high volume centers. And the incidence is probably underappreciated because it's underreported. And potentially mild transient cases could be missed as temporary numbness. So the condition is overwhelmingly unilateral or one-sided. 96% of cases are on one side rather than being bilateral, which speaks to this systemic sort of.  and you're losing weight all over the place. Why does it happen in one side versus the other? I don't have any idea. Maybe you can make it for it? Yeah. Just chance and maybe some sort of subtle side-to-side difference or the way you use your body or the way this guy was doing his exercise maybe favored not in a bad way but just the way he tends to move to your point about having a second hit but I think mostly it's probably just going to be chance. Yeah. Originally when this was first described, it was like cross-legged palsy, a cross-legged because that would be the inciting event, the mechanical sort of thing that put it over the top. When studied, the most critical marker risk factor is the velocity of weight loss. So on average, people that get this are losing about 10% of their body weight per month, which ends up being about 5.4 kilos in this particular cohort. So there's also some additional risk factors that are kind of uniquely affect this population. So first off, the population that generally goes about rapid weight loss, or uses metabolic bariatric surgery or GLP-1s, they tend to be more commonly individuals with the history of metabolic syndrome or type 2 diabetes. So there's already perhaps some baseline metabolic neuropathy going on. And then these individuals can undergo rapid weight loss, which mobilizes the fat from those structural fat pads at this particularly vulnerable area, removing that shock absorber. And then, yeah, there's a biomechanical trigger potentially. So prolonged leg crossing, squatting, kneeling, et cetera, all of this could kind of put it over the edge. And there may be some co-occurring micronutrient deficiencies, specifically for folks who've had metabolic bariatric surgery and are being not monitored as closely nutrition wise. So like vitamin B1, thiamine, B12 or copper deficiency can all synergistically impair the nerve's ability to repair itself. And a nerve starved of these essential vitamins is less resilient to perhaps that ischemic stress, lack of blood flow caused by the collapse of that fibular tunnel. It's the start of the year, which means that many of you are setting big goals. You're likely realizing that your schedule has not gotten any less busy. Now, if you're trying to manage your nutrition, but you have zero time to shop, prep or cook, factor makes it easy. They provide fully prepared meals designed by dieticians and crafted by chefs that you could eat well without the typical friction of meal prep. The nutrition profile here is solid. We're talking about quality ingredients, including lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats. Whether your goal is general health, weight management or performance, the meals are designed to support you and your fitness journey. They've got over 100 rotating weekly meals, including options for high protein, a calorie deficit or surplus, a Mediterranean diet, or even a plant-based dietary pattern. Whatever your preferences are, factor has you covered. And when I'm busy working, I don't want to spend a ton of time in the kitchen, and factor comes in clutch to help keep me on track. They're always fresh, never frozen, and a meal's ready in about two minutes. I get the quality of a home cooked meal without the stress. If your schedule is busy like mine, I think factor could be a big help in 2026. Head over to factormeals.com slash bbm50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first factor box plus free breakfast for a year. The offer is only valid for new factor customers with the code and qualifying auto renewing subscription purchases. Make healthier, eating easy with factor. That's factormeals.com slash bbm50off. New year, colder days, this is the moment where your winter wardrobe actually has to deliver some measurable results. Quinn springs together premium materials and enduring quality so that you stay warm and you look sharp all season long. I look at clothing like a training program. I want high utility and zero waste. Usually luxury gear has a massive markup that doesn't actually correlate to quality, at least not all of the time. But Quinn cuts out the middlemen to deliver luxury materials, like cashmere, wool, and Italian leather, all at a fraction of the price. Their outerwear is particularly impressive. From down jackets to wool coats, everything is made by trusted factories with rigorous ethical standards. I've been wearing some of their cashmere sweaters lately because the holiday party round, you know? Now they're soft, they're durable, and they're holding up better than brands that cost three times as much. I didn't have to drop a fortune on them and their style actually holds up year after year. Refresher winter wardrobe at quints.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365 day returns. They're now in Canada too. That's quince.com slash bbm, free shipping and 365 day returns, quints.com slash bbm. So treatment typically revolves around weight stabilization, perhaps some B vitamin supplementation, orthosis for the foot. So just to keep it in the correct positions, you don't get a contracture and so on. If there's no clinical or electric diagnostic evidence of recovery after about three months, surgical decompression is sometimes indicated because they don't want those motor end plates. So basically where the nerve attaches to the muscle, that end plate, that interface, they don't want that to fibrose or degenerate because otherwise you're kind of up a creek like our patient. But after in chronic cases, like what he had, yeah, you're gonna have to have a tendon transfer so you can walk without your foot kind of slap in the ground. Yeah, I did not know that that was a thing that could be done to manage this. So I'm glad there's some kind of creative orthopods out there who can put people back together again a different way. But yeah, you have to relearn how to like use that newly transplanted muscle and presumably has permanent impact on function. You have to kind of relearn how to do basic things, I imagine with the help, but that's what PM and our doctors are great at. So yeah. Now, Austin, there's been a few case reports that have come out of individuals on GLP ones having this. One case was actually titled the Terzepetide Drop. Have you seen this with any patients? Is this something that's on your radar? Yeah, I've used these medicines with lots and lots of folks. I've not seen this happen yet, although I'm aware of it as an entity. And I think it's one of those things that is a known risk. It is one of the potential trade-offs that somebody might experience, but at the same time, it is one of the downsides of again, just like unmonitored, overly rapid weight loss. And so having kind of it done in a way that is monitored, that is supported, where doses are being adjusted, where nutrition is being monitored. I mean, I've had also patients who I'm actually concerned that maybe their appetite is being suppressed too much and they're not actually getting in enough nutrition as they are losing weight. And that sets them up for all sorts of other deficiencies and iron deficiency and things like that. So, you know, I'm quite comfortable using these medicines. I've been using them for a while now with many, many patients, with great, some, with most of them, I would say, with great success and some who have speed bumps along the way that need to be kind of navigated individually. But yeah, that kind of monitoring and guidance along the way, I think is important rather than just like more is better or faster, no matter what. Yeah, yeah, I wanna bring this case up, not only because it's interesting, I did find it interesting, but because it also raises a fundamental question in our field, is faster actually better when it comes to weight loss? We often hear the argument that rapid initial weight loss is more motivating for the patient or the client, which theoretically could improve long-term adherence. But as this case proves, there can be a physiological cost. So I wanted to pivot the discussion towards the actual evidence on weight loss velocity. We need to look at the trade-off between the speed of the result and the quality of the tissue loss, specifically the preservation of lean body mass and the avoidance of collateral fattening, which is a physiological phenomenon where the body aggressively drives overeating following a period of weight loss to restore the lost lean body mass. And while doing so, the individual actually gains a bunch of fat mass alongside the lean mass. So let's start with the most obvious question. Does the data support the slow and steady mantra when it comes to weight loss? There's a safety concern, we've kind of talked about that. This slimmer paralysis mostly related to a weight loss velocity that exceeds 10% of total body weight per month, which would be quite high for most folks. And you brought up gallstones and nutritional deficiencies. Are there any other risks or safety concerns that you have top of mind when somebody's losing weight relatively quickly? I think you alluded to one of them being that, hey, are we having some unfavorable changes in terms of the lean body mass aspect? There are certainly many favorable things. So for example, if somebody has fatty liver disease, I would expect that to get better rapidly as people, because the liver starts rapidly exporting a bunch of that fat. I think I would have to sit down and think like organ system by organ system to decide are there concerns from a neurological standpoint. We really covered the main one of deficiencies or the mechanical neuropathies that can develop. Not much from a pulmonary standpoint, not much from a renal standpoint. I'm sure there can be some things from a cardiovascular side mainly relating to, as they're hypovolemia, meaning is the person not eating or drinking enough and they end up getting low blood pressure, they get dizziness, they might be more likely to pass out. That's something that I've actually seen a fair amount of and people, for example, who are on blood pressure medicines often need those to be adjusted. The other thing with especially like aggressive crash diets, things like that, where people are more prone to electrolyte abnormalities, you can end up with cardiovascular complications, arrhythmia as things like that that can develop. Let's see what else. I mentioned the liver, the gallstones we've talked about, the intraabdominal fat, which itself, the gallstone risk can, I've not seen like rapid weight loss associated pancreatitis, but that's probably, that may be a thing that can happen whether by way of a gallstone or if you're liberating a lot of free fatty acids into the bloodstream and you get like severe high triglycerides, I guess that's another way that you could get there. And then again, not much in terms of the lower GI tract or the kidneys or definitely the genitourinary tracts, not much that comes to mind. And then from there, it's musculoskeletal nature. So the muscle mass loss is the thing that comes to mind. I don't know how much of an impact I would expect with very short-term rapid weight loss on bone health. I'm sure there'd be something detectable, whether that translates into a negative longer term outcome, it'd be hard to say. So that's my like rapid pass through the organ systems and what I can think of off the top of my head. Yeah, I think that's quite good. The only other thing that comes to mind is maybe on the back end, right? It's like, great, you lost the weight, you know, that's the target, but if and when weight regain starts, if it's rapid and you are really restricted for a period of time, the refeeding syndrome type thing, we've had cases of like, thyroid toxic periodic paralysis and some other, just electrolyte abnormality stuff. So yeah, that's a concern. So that's safety, moving on to what our listeners are probably more interested in, body composition. So the impact of weight loss speed or weight loss velocity on muscle mass differs significantly between athletes and lean individuals and the general population with obesity. So for athletes, the data for sure supports slow and steady. Now, there is some nuance here because there are papers out there describing relatively quick dramatic weight loss to make weight with preserved performance. There are a few different ways to do this. It's not highly reliable or conserved across everybody. It kind of varies significantly. We're gonna set that to the side and talk about more just, hey, should you lose weight rapidly or slowly if you're an individual who's really interested in performance or otherwise an athlete? And I think there's a really good study to show the evidence on this and kind of demonstrate our position. So this is a group of elite Norwegian athletes from a variety of different sports. They were randomized to either slow or fast weight loss groups. Slow weight loss group followed a diet that resulted in losing about 0.7% of their body weight per week, whereas the fast weight loss group doubled it, 1.4% body weight per week. So that's almost 6% per month. Now, the study ran until all athletes reached the desired weight loss, which was a minimum of 4% decrease in their body weight. So it lasted between four to 12 weeks. During the study period, both groups also engaged in resistance training four times a week. At the end of the study period, body weight decreased by about 5.5% in both groups with the slow weight loss group losing a higher percentage of body fat compared to the fast group. Additionally, the slow weight loss groups on increase in their lean body mass by about 2%, which might be a measurement error, but it's still not a loss, which it seems positive. And their one rep max squat and bench press improvements were greater in the slow weight loss group compared to the fast group, about 12% for the squat in the slow group versus 9% for the fast group and 13.6% for the bench press group who was using a slow weight loss approach compared to 6.4% in the fast group. Overall, to me, this suggests like, look, if you're already relatively lean, and you're trying to get even leaner, probably slower is better if performance is a concern. But on the other side of the coin, for individuals with obesity, the data really kind of challenges that slow mantra. There's been a few recent meta-analyses that suggest for individuals with obesity, the rate of weight loss does not inherently dictate the amount of muscle loss provided that protein intake and resistance training are controlled. We know those are two big lovers that like preserve muscle mass. And in this particular population, it doesn't seem like going faster produces more lean body mass loss. And individuals with higher body fat can mobilize fatty acids more effectively and they have more of it to do so, then that can cover some of the energy deficits and preserve some of the muscle loss. This is a lot of the mechanistic stuff that keto advocates tend to cite, but yeah, it actually looks like this plays out for individuals with obesity who do lose weight a little faster. So you might potentially choose that if somebody was interested in doing so, knowing the potential risks and maybe having that top-end velocity ceiling of 10% per month in mind. The next thing we gotta move on to is metabolic adaptation. Austin, do you ever talk about metabolic adaptation? Not using those terms, I think the concepts are kind of baked into my conversation, mainly when I have these conversations all the time now with folks who have many times been struggling with their weight their entire life and feel like they're doing everything right. And yet despite their best efforts, they either struggle to make progress or they make initial progress and then things tend to rebound. And so it's kind of baked in as part of the explanation of how quote unquote, the body fights back after your initial weight loss efforts, both in terms of increasing appetite and that kind of question of metabolic adaptation. I put a lot more emphasis on the appetite aspects here, but that's something that's kind of baked into that conversation implicitly. Yeah, yeah, people talk about metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis or you know, you broke your metabolism, something like that. You know, they talk about it frequently, but the definition is kind of messy. The way I define it and the way that a lot of researchers that I redefine it is that metabolic adaptation is a greater than expected reduction in the amount of calories used in a day in response to weight loss. So for example, we know as your body mass goes down, you're going to burn less calories because you have less mass. Now that proportion of muscle, the fat loss, those two things require different amounts of energy per day. And so if you lose way more muscle than fat, you could go down more. This is all predictable. That's not metabolic adaptation. Metabolic adaptation is if there's additional reductions in how many calories that you need per day to keep the lights on in your body that we don't predict by just the tissue loss alone. So it's maybe like a metabolic efficiency increase. Data indicates that rapid weight loss increases the metabolic adaptation more than gradual weight loss. And there's actually a really good meta-analysis that came out, I think, in 2020. Yeah, there's a deeper suppression or greater suppression of resting metabolic rate. That's basically how many calories you use per day to keep the lights on in your body. In a comparative analysis, rapid weight loss groups who lost about seven and a half kilos reduced their resting metabolic rate by about 137 calories per day compared to only 87 calories per day in a gradual weight loss group who lost about the same weight. They also didn't have significant differences in lean mass that was preserved. So kind of speaking more to that, what we just said that looked for individuals with obesity, it doesn't look like they're gonna lose that much more muscle mass, if they lose it rapidly, but there might be some more metabolic adaptation. What's not clear to me is if this is actually meaningful. Meaning that, yeah, there's a difference in calories by 50, 60 calories, but most of these studies were short-term, eight weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks. Does this end up shaking out in the long run and does it even matter? For example, we look at even the biggest loser data, the people who lost the most weight and kept it off the longest had the most metabolic adaptation. And so to me, it's almost like individuals who are maybe genetically set up in a way to be obesity sensitive to not only the environment, but then also resistant to weight loss interventions overall, they may just have, this is the lot in life that they've kind of got. They were not so great hand genetically and it is what it is. And so I don't know that we should be micromanaging or selecting a particular dietary approach or intervention otherwise that focuses on metabolic adaptation. What do you think about that? Yeah, I fully agree with that. And I think that knowing, or I wouldn't even claim to know, but having a general sense of just the sheer number of variables that can impact these types of outcomes with this concept of metabolic adaptation just being one of them, it's like you're moving a fraction of a tiny chess piece on like this super complex multivariate board. Many variables we can't even appreciate, many variables we can't even modify. So like control the big things that you can and then the rest may or may not be entirely within your control. And this feels like one of those really tiny ones that is both probably less within our control than we would like it to be, but also less significant of a factor than it is often attributed to be. Yeah, I think it's something you can observe, but to the extent you can control it, I don't think so. I think it's more of like an adaptive response and like mostly managed or influenced by things outside of your control. And then I almost view it as like a signature of success. Like if you didn't get any metabolic adaptation, I don't know that you lost that much weight. Yeah, that's fair. So that's the metabolic adaptation arm of this. Moving on to adherence, there's this thought, look, you have to go low and slow because that's the only way you can keep it off longterm or adhere to this diet longterm or intervention longterm. Well, contrary to that belief that thinks that slow weight loss is more sustainable, the data suggests that rapid initial results can actually be beneficial for adherence. There's a number of studies on this showing that the amount of weight loss initially within the first few weeks sort of predicts not only achieving that minimally clinically important difference in weight change, so losing at least 5% of their starting body weight but also maintaining it. So can be predictive and whether this is like a positive feedback loop, like from a behavioral standpoint, like, oh, I was able to succeed. I'm gonna keep going. Or if it just identifies those who can be successful, like the people who don't lose a bunch of weight initially, they're like, well, you weren't gonna be successful anyway. So good luck. I can't speak to that. But is this something you see in your practice that people, they start on these medications or for example, just lifestyle alone, the initial sort of burst kind of predicts how they do long-term, you see that? Yeah, it's tough to say. I think that I emphasize with patients just how individual this whole process is, especially with the use of medicines that different people respond differently to different medicines and to different doses of medicines. If I had to guess that, yeah, if I start somebody on the lowest dose of terzepotide, for example, and they experience a dramatic impact on their appetite, they're super sensitive to it and lose a bunch of weight. In general, those people, I would predict to have better outcomes compared with somebody who doesn't feel much of anything. And I'm cranking it all the way up to the max dose of 15 milligrams. However, I have also seen plenty of people, and I've recently had some of these conversations, a patient who started on two and a half and they were like, not responding terribly well to it just yet, and they were starting to get apprehensive. They're like, should I be feeling more? Am I a hypo responder? And I'm like, cool it. Like we don't know that yet. There are plenty of people who actually don't really tend to respond a ton to the lower doses, and then we reach some sort of maybe a threshold effect in people. Once we get to seven and a half and something unlocks, and then they start making a ton of progress. So I hesitate based on my own kind of observational experience here to draw any sort of confident conclusion other than I've seen massive amounts of variability between people and how they respond, both physiologically and of course, psychologically as well to the process. Some people are like totally open and patient and no concerns. Others are much more impatient and want to see a big result on the low dose and get apprehensive that they're not getting there. Other people think that they really want to be on the maximum dose. And I'm like, well, if you're responding well to the lower dose, we don't actually have to increase it. And similar in terms of intensities of other interventions when it comes to regular dietary interventions, exercise interventions, just people are massively different. The sheer number of variables at play, both known and unknown, is just enormous here. And again, many of them are things that you did not choose or you were not in control of. And so that's kind of part of the challenge that we're trying to deal with with as good as these tools are that we have still compared with that level of complexity, relatively crude, I would say. Yeah. Yeah. And moving on to the final sort of thought between like, look, it's slower, better than faster. What about the potential for weight regain? The prevailing dogma is that slow and steady prevents weight regain. That's not really supported by data as well. Large scale studies, including this Purcell study we're going to talk about, as well as the National Weight Loss Control Registry, consistently find no significant difference in the amount of weight regained over the long term between slow and rapid weight loss. Again, it kind of doesn't really matter for individuals with obesity. So this Purcell study is interesting. To randomize trial, 200 participants, one group underwent a rapid weight loss program, 12 weeks, where they won a very low calorie diet, like 800 calories a day. The other one went on a gradual program, where they reduced their intake by 500 calories per day. The success rate, the rapid weight loss group, was far more likely to hit their target weight loss. About 81% of that group was successful compared to the slow weight loss group. Only 50% was successful. After three years, both groups regained roughly 70% of their loss weight. The rapidity of the initial loss did not make the regain worse, and maintenance was equally difficult for both groups, which is kind of how I view this. I'm like, I don't really care if you go fast or slow. My main concern is that you got there. Because I think maintaining that is going to be challenging either way. But first, we got to get there to even worry about maintenance. Does that make sense for you? Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this a lot, where it matters how you got there with certain things. But with other areas, it's like we really care about the outcome. And so to the extent we see a lot of people now, especially like kind of moralizing around, did you get there with diet and exercise? Or did you use the medicines? Or did you use the surgery? And it's like, we put a lot more emphasis on, like, let's get there. And then the details of how you got there and the implications of that and what does maintenance look like, we can kind of negotiate along the way. This is another super common conversation I'm having with folks who, even before we've even started, for example, the use of a GLP-1 agonist, they're like, well, what does it look like when it comes to maintenance? And it's like, well, happy to have that conversation, of course. And I lay it out for them. But it's like, we got to get there first before we can negotiate what does that look like for you. And we can't even predict. Are you going to be somebody who needs to continue using one of the medicines? Are you somebody who might be able to get away with lowering the dose or using it a little less frequently? Or are you one of the relatively few people, maybe in the order of 15-ish percent of people, who can actually come all the way down, potentially even off the medicine and sustain the majority of your weight loss? There's a lot of variation in how this looks in practice. But let's get there. Is the primary goal? Yeah, the analogy is like with blood pressure, right? We've talked about on this podcast before that apparently starting with multiple very low dose antihypertensive seem to work better than like maxing out one particular drug. And so imagine you have a patient and you're walking them through this and they're on board. They're like, look, doc, whatever you think is right. And so they're ready to start multiple agents at a low dose. But then immediately right after that, they're like, and when can I come off? And you're like, well, maybe let's get there first. And then we'll talk about it. Because yet, it directly impacts the risk. Now, this brings up a new paper that just got released. It's getting a lot of traffic. New study from Mass General, Havood. So you know it's going to get some airplay. The study is titled Weight Regain after Cessation of Medication for Weight Management, Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. This was just published. I'll link it in the show notes below. Basically, they did a meta-analysis, a study of studies on people who were on anti-abstetive medications and like, look, what happened after they got off? Now, 37 studies were included, about 10,000 patients. And they included all sorts of different anti-abstetive medications. So not just GLP-1s, but even some of the older agents. And invariably, there are differences in not only how much weight was lost, but what happens afterwards. Now, the mainstream media and maybe some, we'll call them, GLP-1 skeptics is not the right word. Maybe like anti-GLP-1 people, whatever. It seems like that anyway. There's plenty of those out there we know. They're like, look, after you come off the medication, you regain the weight. And you regain the weight faster than if you did lifestyle alone. And so in this particular study, they showed that the systematic review and meta-analysis, they show that, look, people come off these medications, they regain weight four times faster than those who are on lifestyle change alone, to diet and exercise. Failing to mention that the people who are on these medications lost way more weight on average. So yes, the absolute rate of weight regain tends to be faster because they lost more weight in the first place, but also ignores a few other kind of nuances here. So nuance number one, when we just restrict the analysis to GLP-1s on their own, and we look at like one-year data, people who come off and they're off for a year, actually seem to preserve more weight loss overall than people on lifestyle alone. Now, whether that gets back to null and zero at two years, three years forward, we don't know. But at least in the first year, it looks like some sort of durable effect of these agents. And then two, which is not really a nuance point, but maybe the total point, any intervention that causes an effect, you'll likely have to continue doing that intervention to preserve that effect, whether it's diet and exercise alone, whether it's medication, whether it's both, whatever. It's not like you can just do it and be like, OK, I don't have to do it anymore. It's done. Yeah, that's, I mean, honestly, most interventions that we have. Here's another interesting hot take that I will have. I have heard rumblings that there are some groups, and I've not confirmed this for myself yet, that looking into, for example, some of the gene-based therapies around GLP-1 signaling. For example, we have existing therapies for this in the context of sickle cell disease, for example. There are some that are being studied for lipid management as well, essentially like a one-time dose of this gene editing treatment that will then lead to a permanent, durable lowering of your blood lipid levels or that will edit your sickling hemoglobin genes to essentially cure that condition. So I'm curious to see, for all of these folks who are vehemently against the use of GLP1s, because when you tend to stop therapy, the effects of the therapy do not persist, I have to assume that they will be vigorously in favor of one-time treatment options for this kind of thing. Yeah, they're not going to be either. And I don't know that I am either, because I'm just open to seeing what are the potential benefits, what are the potential downsides, and I will evaluate that evidence on its own when it comes to pass. But it's kind of disingenuous, and it's going to be very predictable how that ends up playing out, I think, on their part. Yeah, if you agree that the root cause of obesity is a genetic mismatch with the modern environment, and then if you secondarily agree that it's going to take some time to change the environment to a satisfactory level that really reverses course here, it's going to take some years, so then you're like, well, I guess our actual target is genetics. And then we somehow identify this genetic target, and we can create a treatment that directly does that one-time dose, gene editing, CRISPR, whatever, and it does actually change their genes. And now they are well matched for the current environment. And that's the treatment for obesity. You're cool with that. And further, what does that Venn diagram look like between the COVID vaccine modifies your DNA versus a root cause treatment of obesity modifies your DNA? Like, how does that square? With the technology that we have, I mean, identifying to the way that you've described folks as being more obesity sensitive or obesity resistant in the context of the modern environment, what are the variables that are most predictive of a quote unquote, obesity resistant phenotype? What do the genetics look like of somebody who is quote unquote, naturally lean? And then is there a gene therapy that you want to try to institute to folks who struggle to make them more obesity resistant? I'm not even advocating for this, because it's just like a whole...  minefield of a complex topic in terms of editing people's genetics and at what point in life do you do that and what are the implications and things like that, but that's kind of the phenomenon that you're getting at here. Yeah, I don't know. I think it'd be cool, like, great if possible, that would be an interesting option for folks, but yeah, TBD, I just find the argument that you shouldn't use GLP-1s because when you come off them, you're going to regain the weight. That's like saying you shouldn't exercise because when you stop doing it, you're going to lose the muscle mass or whatever. It's like, yeah, maybe there's a more durable effect of exercise longer term than GLP-1s, sure, but for a dietary pattern, it's like saying you can only eat healthy for the next year to lose the weight and then after that you have to stop because we don't want you to have to keep doing it. It'd be silly to have to keep persistently doing something despite all the other. Yeah, it's nonsense. All right, Austin, any closing thoughts on losing weight rapidly versus slowly for metabolic health, long-term health trajectory, and maybe how you contrast that with active individuals, athletes who are looking to be a little leaner but not necessarily for a health purpose? Yeah, I think it's a good topic. I think you did a good job kind of surveying the evidence and this whole episode, including starting from the very beginning with the mystery case, serves to lay out and describe a fair amount of the potential pros and the potential cons of doing this, just like any intervention has potential benefits of potential downsides. And so then our job, whether as people considering these paths before us or as clinicians guiding folks through it, is helping them weigh those potential benefits and downsides on an individual basis. So somebody who is at extremely high risk of cardiometabolic complications, yeah, I might favor a little bit more rapid if I can, notwithstanding this maybe risk of a little peroneal neuropathy that is likely to be either not noticed or transient or something like that. But for somebody who values high-level performance, then the calculus changes a little bit there. And so these decisions should be made individually. And if you have a clinician that you're working with, then you have that level of supervision to have these kind of conversations of what does this look like. And of course, this is all underscored by our unsurprising recommendation that anytime you're losing weight, you ought to be strength training to do your best to maintain the lean body mass and the muscle mass along the way. Great. Yeah, just some more clinical logic that you're spouting here. If the benefits outweigh the risks would proceed, if that flips, then maybe slow down a little bit. Yeah, with conditions that you mentioned, there's some strong push towards let's take care of this obesity thing as quickly as possible to reduce your risk, whether it's heart disease, particularly liver disease, for example. Whereas if it's more of like, eh, this isn't really for help, really concerned with performance well, then the risks of rapid weight loss seem to outweigh the benefits, which is interesting because on our forum, on our AMAs or whatever, we frequently get questions about, should I follow a protein sparing modified fast? Should I do this other rapid weight loss protocol? And I'm like, look, you're not an individual with obesity to a level that is compromising your health. And you are apparently concerned with performance. How do I know that? Because you're on the Barbell Medicine Forum. Otherwise, how did you make it here? So it seems like that's probably not the move for lean mass preservation, for strength development. And overall, like while the adherence may not be different long term, I do have concerns about rebound, particularly that collateral fattening situation afterwards. Yeah, that's why there are criteria for patient selection for various interventions. Now these are not hard rules written in stone, no matter what. Like I've certainly prescribed and done things kind of quote unquote off label from time to time. But why, for example, you see criteria for GLP ones in general, say BMI over 30, BMI over 27 with a comorbidity as just like, here it's just on like general patient screening guidelines. Now have I initiated one of these medicines in a patient who did not meet these criteria? For sure I have. But there were specific reasons, justifications and based on the conversation and the clinical assessment came to the conclusion that, hey, the potential benefits of this medicine outweigh the potential downsides. For example, one recent use had to do with a patient who had a history of like pretty significant like binge eating disorder. And despite their best efforts, this was a constant daily struggle that they were dealing with yet through daily heroic efforts, they were actually managing to maintain a BMI below 27. And so they would, unfortunately, insurance is like, nah, your BMI looks great. This person's every day is like an absolute struggle to deal with, you know, that concept of like food noise and crate and compulsions and things like that. Yeah, seems to me like you stand to potentially benefit from this. It's likely to remain a low dose to try to control that kind of give you a sense of control. I'm not going to crank this up to max dose and aim for massive weight loss, but that's not the aim of this intervention in your situation. Right? Similar with metabolic bariatric surgery, there are criteria for the type of person who undergoes it. We would not generally be doing metabolic bariatric surgery on somebody who's BMI is 25 or something like that. You don't see scenarios where somebody gets that surgery and then it's like, oh, they're losing way too much weight. We end up needing to put them on, you know, IV nutrition afterwards to keep their weight up or something like that. It's like, if that's the case, I had questions maybe about the initial patient selection criteria, maybe about the way that the surgery was performed, the way it was set up led to, you know, overdramatic weight loss, maybe they need a surgical revision, things like that, like back that off, etc. So you need skilled clinicians doing this kind of patient selection and then guiding through that process of potential benefits, potential downsides. Are we meeting traditional criteria? Are we going off label? Are you just like not a great candidate for this and why and what are our alternatives instead? Yeah, perhaps the DIY use and pill mill situation would be not ideal in the risks. Yeah, totally. All right. Well, that is a wrap on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on this mystery case. If you liked this episode or other episodes, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. For everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. If you are a podcast host, listen up this one's for you. My name is Ali Jackson. I'm the host of Finding Mr. Height, a dating and relationship podcast that I've been doing for four years now, sharing my positive and practical approach to dating that's built on my own life experience. And I wanted to share another experience that I've had, my secret behind monetizing my show. It's called Red Circle. And I was just telling my colleague about how much I love their platform with Red Circle, not only am I getting a seamless hosting experience, but I also love the support I receive in AdSales. It's not just typical AdSales either. It's targeted opportunities based on my show and my life. And the platform is super simple. You just set your preferences and Red Circle matches you with sponsors that align with your show. You vet every opportunity and their platform gives you great analytics. More recently too, my Red Circle team has brought me opportunities outside of my podcast on social media to really augment the podcast partnerships, bring them full circle. I just can't recommend them enough. If you want to give it a try, go to RedCircle.com to get your free trial. That's RedCircle.com for a free trial.

=== FILE: Exercise for Persistent Pain Populations w⧸ Dr. Michael Ray [sL-nL-hVKGY].txt ===

I can't watch Hey guys, this is Dr. Michael Ray, I'm a Barbell Medicine Pain and Reheat clinician I'm coming to you today with a video about our latest blog that we just released regarding exercise and persistent pain Now in this blog I review an article by Plaskiedl titled Exercise and Doose Hyperalegesia, a meta analysis of exercise dosing for the treatment of chronic pain If you're not from the other type of olegesia, it's just a fancy way of saying decreased pain perception Now we know that this is an important issue, persistent pain is estimated to affect about 1.5 billion people worldwide today And to the main stage treatments that are usually recommended are both education to the patient about pain And then also go oriented activity interventions or exercise Exercise the difficult part about this discussion is we actually don't have a lot of solid data and good knowledge on what's an appropriate exercise dosage For patients dealing with persistent pain and in particularly specific pain states That's something that Plaski seeks to share a little bit more light on So Plaski took data from a 2017 Cocken review by Genon and reexamine that data to see if we could have DOSage effects with exercise on persistent pain states Now Genon from the 2017 Cocker interview had this to say about the totality of evidence for exercise and persistent pain states The evidence in this overview suggests that the broad spectrum of physical activity and exercise interventions assessed here A aerobic strength flexibility range of motion core or balance trening programs as well as yoga, Pilates and Tai Chi All potentially beneficial though the evidence for benefit is low quality and inconsistent The most commonly reported adverse events for increased soreness or muscle pain which subsided after several weeks of the intervention Physical activity and exercise main proof pain severity as well as physical functioning quality of life So based on what Genon had to say from the 2017 Cocker review it appears There was not exactly an overwhelming amount of evidence will support for the recommendation of exercise or particular dosage for individuals for system pain And this new article by Plaski out of all the authors sought to understand how altering the dose of exercise might affect pain They say the primary objective is to test the hypothesis that the dose of exercise would impact the efficacy of exercise and physical movement based therapy To reduce persistent or chronic pain For this new review, Plaski out of the site to utilize randomized control trials from the 2017 Cocker review That included adult patients, 18 years of older chronic non-cancel pain defined as greater than three months in duration And it is a meta analysis reporting post intervention effect sizes for pain It was put in the final caveat was the included articles had to be published in a peer review journal Now the Cocker review originally included I want to say 21 papers 381 individual studies now Plaski ended up including 75 individual studies that met their inclusion criteria The pain states that they looked at were inclusive of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, low back pain, intermittent clodication, neck pain, spinal cord injury, and fatella for more pain syndrome Those were included pain states When they wanted to look at exercises effects on those pain states, they then had to classify the exercises that were utilized in these interventions And they did this kind of broadly, they classify the exercise modalities as either strength or resistance trening, aerobic exercise, either land or water And then meditative movement therapy Now they further subdivided from these broad categories and to things like walking, jogging, pilates, tai chIMotor control exercises range of motion, flexibility exercises, aquatic aerobics, resistance trening and land aerobic exercise They talk about that a lot more in the article which I definitely recommend reading So once the authors categorize the exercise interventions, they needed to then classify the exercise dosage For each exercise intervention to look at its effect on the pain states particularly So they classify the exercise dosage, based off of frequency intensity, time, and duration Frequency is defined as the number of bouts of exercise performed within a week So for example, if they performed the exercise intervention three times that week, then the frequency would be three Intensity was defined as absolute intensity in which they took metabolic equivalent units, nets And they multiplied that by the number of minutes performed in one week For time that was a cumulative amount of time and minutes the exercise was completed per week So if they completed it 60 minutes and those three times per week, that would be 180 minutes of time per week And finally duration was the weeks the exercises were implemented in the study So if the study went on for 12 weeks, then the duration was at 12 week intervention So again they just classify those in the frequency intensity, time, and duration For each exercise intervention and it looked at how the dosage effects particular pain-based states So overall the author states that they found that most of the studies included in this review Demonstrated some positive benefits of exercise up pain outcomes that was 69 of the 75 included studies Of which 30 were statistically significant So less than half Of the statistically non-significant studies 39 or 45 described positive trening benefits of exercise Why only six studies reported worse pain with exercise? Now that last part of that statement is kind of intriguing When we see things like trening towards statistically significant That's more of a view to or a trickery where it's not really telling us anything meaningful But rather perhaps it's trying to force someone's bias of wanting to support exercise interventions for Efficacious ways to help people with persistent pain trening towards statistically significant isn't very meaningful in this regard So the reason article about Pulaski at L just further demonstrates our lack of knowledge regarding a proper exercise dosage For those dealing with persistent pain We seem to know that it's beneficial but at what frequency intensity time and duration We're really not sure it's not like the national physical activity guidelines that we have in the US But we have some understanding of an appropriate baseline level of dosage to incur health benefits on the participant We're not quite there yet with persistent pain You know it has a lot of positive benefits We're just not sure what their proper dosage is Now this shouldn't be looked at as a net negative The way that we can see this as clinicians Is this means we can work collaboratively with patients Define with their appropriate dosage for them Based off of their goals Their ability to hear long-term and most likely that's going to be related to something that they enjoy And then finally looking at their prior treninGHistory all of those could culminate into getting together Some type of what I would prefer to call movement activity or cold erected movement activity That they can utilize to work through the issue to currently dealing with And then maybe if we can get by and long-term for all the other positive physiological adaptations from exercise Then we get something that they want to do long-term throughout life Even with the understanding that maybe their interest change It would be very easy as a member of the Barbel medicine team I personally very much enjoyed resistance trening Specifically with the barbell But as someone came to me working through one of these pain-based states that they discussed in this paper And they weren't very into barbel trening They knew that it wasn't something they're going to do in the future And they just didn't have any interest Then I'm probably going to find other exercises to incur the effect that I'm looking for That they think they could adapt to their lifelong term We know exercise adaptations on a spectrum Some of the ceases doing the exercise the minute they leave our clinic Then is probably going to not have a long-term benefit for them One final point that I do think is important to state here We do know that it's okay to allow patients dealing with persistent pain-based symptoms to exercise with pain And there may be some short-term benefits and allowing such an approach By decreasing connesia phobia Instilling self-efficacy and teaching the patient that pain doesn't equal tissue damage necessitating avoidance and protection Hert doesn't equal harm in the scenario Either way, hopefully the findings from this review Help stifle claims that one must do a particular exercise dosage Type frequency intensity time and duration to get themselves out of pain And rather reframe focus on defining the patient's preferred exercise dosage Based on activity history and individual goals

=== FILE: Fever, Rapid Heart Rate, and Difficulty Swallowing in 22-Year-Old Bodybuilder (Medical Mystery) [kT448StpA-s].txt ===

 autemplemplaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguagu clinician's hat. And also we got a quack watch from the New York Times. So that's going to be that's going to be fun. On the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, interesting, unexpected twist. So this hopefully this works out or at least provides the desired edutainment that people are looking for. But I'm doing all right. Yeah. People really just wanted me to to play the patient. I think this, you know, the people have been saying that everybody's been saying it. No, gosh, I just need I want to get off the Internet. This is an aside to the podcast. And yeah, I just. The problem is, here's what's wrong about my brain. Now, look, there's a lot of stuff that's up there that questionably, you know, maybe needs more therapy, less therapy, I don't know, something to change. But if I see something that is wrong and I feel like it's getting a lot of traction, like a lot of views potentially harmful, like the stakes are reasonably high, man, it's really hard for me to overlook that. It doesn't mean that I want to get into like a confrontational argument. But if I can provide some like steering or correction or, you know, politely worded feedback, I've been I feel like I've been better about that over the last like 10 years, you know, as I've as I've matured. So the latest one has to do with this notion of leptin resistance, which is a few guys if you're listening to this and you don't know what leptin resistance is, great. Don't worry about it. Just tune out black out for like the next, you know, two and a half minutes. But leptin is this hormone, it's best characterized as like maybe a short acting sort of appetite regulator. In most folks, it is in the body floating around proportional to the amount of body fat that you have. So less body fat you have, you have low levels of leptin, the more body fat someone has, the higher levels of leptin people have. And it's been thought that if, you know, a person were to gain a significant amount of body fat, well, their leptin levels would go up and that this particular hormone, which again, usually in the short term acts as sort of like a satiety hormone or like stop eating. That's the that was this thought, right? And so if you have all this extra body fat, your leptin levels are high, it should go to your brain and then stop you from eating more. That theory has been around for 25 years. There's effectively no evidence in humans supporting that line of thinking. Even when you give people a lot of like extra leptin, exogenous leptin through the medication, Metroleptin and other sort of agents that have been trying to manipulate this leptin axis, if you will, or leptin hormone, it doesn't work. People still eat. It doesn't, it doesn't tamp down your appetite. In fact, what we've learned is that individuals with very low body fat, whether it's starvation, anorexia nervosa, stuff like that, they have very, very low levels of leptin. And that is a very strong appetite stimulant, very, very strong. And so, yeah, that's how it works. It just doesn't seem to do much when it's high. And even these new like GLP one receptor agonists, so Ozampic, Wigovie, Terzepatide, et cetera, they actually lower leptin levels. I actually didn't know that. Yeah. The recent meta-analysis came out a few months ago, 20 something studies lowers leptin levels. It's more of like a, you know, hey, you didn't know this. Well, there you go. It doesn't, that's not the way it works to tamp down appetite because you would think if anything, oh, you lowered leptin. Oh my gosh, people's appetite should be much higher on these medications. Turns out it's just, that's not really how leptin works. And so providing a little bit of feedback about this, this idea, leptin resistance is the cause of obesity and it's not willpower. I'm like, well, we, we agree that willpower isn't like the main thing that's changed over the last 50 years with the tripling of the obesity rates, but it's not due to leptin resistance because that is really no evidence in humans to show that it happens. And, oh no, yeah, it does. Look at what GLP one receptor agonists do. I'm like, well, yeah, they actually lower leptin levels, which is kind of the opposite of your theory here. And so, and then I was called a wellness influencer, uh, which I guess I've been called worse. Sure. I mean, how do you feel about that characterization? I don't like, I don't, I guess, you know, it's like the people say it in a, a, a disparaging way where it's like, well, look, I think that's the issue. Yeah. Yeah. You're medically trained, but now look at you, you're a wellness influencer. And I'm like, am I wrong though? Are physicians wellness influencers? If you take the terms, literally, you would hope you would hope it's just weird. I'm like, I'm like, if, if somebody says something that is far outside of their area of expertise and it happens to be incorrect and potentially harmful, like I do think it needs to be corrected. I just wish that I had a better story about leptin rather than like, oh, look, here's the data. So you just, you know, here you go. Yeah. It strikes me as being very analogous to the carbohydrate insulin kind of theory. It's like, people have this idea of here's what insulin does. It, you know, causes storage of things. Therefore, when it goes up, things are stored that includes body fat. So don't eat carbs. insulin goes down, fat goes away. And it's like, that's a nice, neat, tidy story. Similarly leptin, uh, you know, proportional to, to body fat. And so when it's very high, et cetera, et cetera. And so here's the implications of my model. And it's like, okay, that's like a theoretically kind of tight explanation. Now let's test it. And when both of those things have repeatedly failed to be predictive of outcomes in humans, both the carbohydrate insulin model, uh, has, you know, not been well supported and neither has this, uh, leptin, uh, resistance model or, or kind of theory theoretical explanation. So you just trash them and move on instead of, instead of getting wedded to it, uh, and like basing your identity and your business model and your practice patterns all around theories that, uh, you know, don't work. That's, that's the other thing. It's like this particular person is not in the health or fitness scene. They're just like leptin resistance. Why don't people, more people know about this? And I'm like, well, if anything, leptin resistance has been like promulgated by wellness people, like in the low carb world, like that's like the whole thing. Uh, so like, and people who like should know about leptin resistance do generally know about it. And they're like, yeah, this isn't really the thing. Similarly to like, oh, you just got to keep insulin levels low. It's like, yeah, well, GLP one receptor agonists actually increase insulin and cause massive weight loss. So oops, oops. Yeah. It didn't work out anyway. Uh, a few announcements before we get into this week's podcast. One, we just released the second generation low fatigue templates. And there's a series of templates. Previously it was all like straight, like maximal strength, focus, powerlifting focus. But now I've put four separate 16 week programs and they get a three day powerlifting program, four day per week powerlifting program, a power building program, and a general strength conditioning program. Cause if you're like, Hey, maybe I want to stay a little bit further away from failure. I want some more, uh, uh, you know, opportunities to train without having to go to the well, you know, every single time, but I don't, I'm not a powerlifter. What do? Well, here you go. I got you covered. Uh, I revised all the programming. So now it's more responsive to the individual based on their performance essential for the day, how they're feeling, et cetera. So they get the correct training load. All of the conditioning work has been massively overhauled as well to make sure that not only are people meeting the current physical activity guidelines for conditioning, but they're also, uh, tending to improve their performance, um, with respect to endurance tasks. And the, it was previously like an 85 something page ebook, like my treatise on programming strictly for strength. Well, now it's swelled to over 110 pages, including stuff on hypertrophy, conditioning, program design, relating to those things and further, uh, expansion of the troubleshooting sections. I think it's my best work yet. I spent a lot of time on it. I'm pretty proud of it. Uh, you sure did. Congratulations on the effort and getting it out there. Thanks. Uh, I've tried to pat myself on the back, but my mobility sucks. So I can't do it. Uh, it is linked in the show notes below. You can go onto the website, check that out. And if you're on the fence, you get a free one week sample. If you're a barbell medicine plus subscriber, you get, uh, I believe it's a three week extended sample of all the four different programs just to see if one catches your eye, you like it. So, uh, check, check that out. And we do have a seminar coming up. It's in September. Uh, we are, uh, spots are, spots are going. So if you're on the fence about attending a live in-person seminar from us, well, you should, you should act now. Uh, the link is in the description below. It's in San Antonio, September 20th and 21st. Get to train with us on Friday. Um, it's gonna be a good time and, uh, we hope to see you there. All right, we're gonna go to a quack watch and I didn't send you this because it's a mystery case. And so that would, you know, if I sent you the outline before the mystery case, you'd see what it is and that would be relatively unfair. So you're going to get this in real time and I want to get your live reaction. So this was published in the New York times. I believe it's like a wellness newsletter they send out. And I don't have statistics on this. Like how many people subscribe to this newsletter? I suppose it's a lot. I think, I don't know if it's millions among the largest media organizations out there. Yeah. I bet. I bet it is a large number of people who saw whatever this is about to be. So here's the first line from this newsletter that is also published on their, on their website. And I quote, as I write this, I'm wearing a large heating pad on my back, like a cape. Why? Because when I parked my car at the grocery store, I made the mistake of twisting around to grab shopping bags from the back seat. It goes on about how she has this, this author's had low back pain. And then she says, so I thought it might be helpful to focus on how to prevent back pain in the first place. And I've asked orthopedic doctors for their best tips. Now, Dr. Baraki, you are very, very familiar with the literature on low back pain. You have treated a lot of individuals, low back pain. You have worked through low back pain on your own. I would go so far as to call you a subject matter expert on low back pain. Now, if you had a question about low back pain, orthopedic doctors, your first, your first pick? Dr. Baraki, generally not. Uh, you know, this is not intended to throw shade at orthopedists out there, like by and large, they are no, no, no, Hey, coms. Yeah. Right. They're generally quite good at what they do, meaning the skillset that they are trained for, which involves, uh, slicing and dicing to improve, you know, pathologies of various, uh, uh, you know, orthopedic structures and joints, joint replacements, for example, I would 100% in trust. They're well-trained orthopedists. Uh, you know, there are also even further subspecialties out of orthopedics who I would trust with their, you know, realms of expertise, be it ortho oncology or hand surgeons or various other, other niches. But back pain by and large is a non-surgical problem. And so going straight to a surgeon for, you know, opinions on this, it's not to say that they're unreliable for this, but that just that there's going to be a little bit more variation in the quality of advice that you're going to get from someone who might, you know, spend most of their day operating on patients for a problem that by and large does not require surgery. There are certainly situations with respect to back pain that do require surgical intervention, sometimes purely, you know, orthopedic related issues, be it spinal fractures, certain disc herniated, herniation type situations that do benefit from surgery, definitely like, you know, other forms of cancers and other infections and things like that that can get into the spine. But common low back pain, which is what this article author is speaking on, is not something that really needs an orthopedic surgeon to be involved at all in their evaluation or management. And so, you know, you run the risk of something that is very commonly seen when going to specialists in a given area is you end up getting commentary ideas, advice that are subject to their own selection bias. And so this is, for example, where, you know, in recent years, as pickleball has gotten much more popular, you started to see all these articles about how injurious pickleball is. And it's like, you know, they're interviewing people who see people with injuries, not all the people who are out there doing great and improving their health and function and feeling well and, you know, various things like that, right? If you go to an ER doctor and you're like, can you tell me your opinion on fireworks? And it's like, they are people who only see the really bad stuff that happens when things go wrong with fireworks, right? So there are certainly many of them who have that insight into what is the selection of my population and try to like consciously counter that bias with like bigger data sets than just their own experience. But I think that's hard to do for a lot of clinicians and is not the default setting. When a lot of times when you go to clinicians, they're going to tell you what they know based on, especially the further out they get from formal training, you're going to get less and less evidence-based and more and more experience-based, which is just unfortunately the way it is unless they go out of their way to stay up to date on evidence and things like that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't think that this particular author is like an investigative journalist, although I would, if I would want that, and then I would want them to think about this, say, okay, look, if I'm trying to write this thing about low back pain, who would I ask? And you could say, well, maybe asking a surgeon, you know, an orthopedic surgeon, neurosurgeon, something like that. Maybe I should ask a physical therapist. And maybe I should ask, maybe like a clinician researcher, like hybrid that there's actively involved in low back pain research. Like to me, that would be like the three horsemen, like great. Sure. You know? But it's kind of like, like Fox news the other day, I asked like Texas mom about high fructose corn syrup and sugar. And it's like, wait, how did you arrive? Like, these are the experts anyway. Yeah. So that's, that's my first gripe, but like, okay, let's, let's suspend disbelief. Maybe this is a great thing. And we're just, this is actually a positive quack watch. Sure. Dr. Arthur L. Jenkins, the third great name, by the way. Yeah. The neurosurgeon in New York City who specializes in spinal surgery, to your point, he says to avoid bending, lifting and twisting, the BLT, as he calls it. This maximizes the stress on the disc, making it more likely to rupture. As a spine surgeon, I would never do it. And you know, that a phrase, look, the guy came up, BLT, pretty catchy, right? And pretty quippy. Uh, that's been said a lot to patients. Hey, don't BLT, you got to avoid it. I, as a neurosurgeon would never do it. Completely ignoring the fact that as you interact with the environment around you, you most certainly will have to bend, lift and twist, not only separately, but also at the same time. Can you imagine trying to go about your daily life without ever bending, lifting and twisting at the same time? Yeah. I mean, I'm imagining this neurosurgeon just goes about his day, like living in a very tight corset that allows him to do none of those things with his thorax. And he just remains rigidly upright and doesn't move. Actually has a series of assistants who carries him around. It's just like to, from room to room and like, do this thing. Uh, yes. When lifting an object, make sure both feet are planted and your weight is evenly distributed. Then lift from your legs instead of your arms and back said spine surgeon at the hospital for special surgery in Manhattan. So there's a second surgeon. I suppose that's not terrible advice. Like you, I guess in order to produce force against the ground, your feet would have to be on the ground. So that is a physics lesson that we all needed in this newsletter. Uh, I don't know about your weight being evenly distributed because like, what if picking up something or interacting with the environment forces you into a posture that your weight isn't a hundred percent balanced over your mid foot? Yeah. I mean, I think if we wanted to be maximally charitable to this guy, that if he is advising against, uh, you know, high effort lifting in very awkward positions to which you are unaccustomed, uh, yeah, there may be some risk of some discomfort associated with that because you are unaccustomed to that sort of thing. But, um, if you went in the other direction and you said that anytime somebody does follow that advice, right, that they are, uh, not going to experience back pain, well, that our, our rehab team would argue otherwise, because we have lots of folks who, you know, have gone about their lifting careers following what would be considered kind of best advice for like deadlift training. For example, their feet are planted on the ground. They have the symmetric setup, the bar, the load is max is as close to their, you know, shins as you can get it, trying to maintain your center of mass and everything all aligned and following that. And sometimes people still develop back discomfort. And so I think that there are variables that can be manipulated to, you know, that may contribute to an increased risk of back discomfort, um, or that may lower that risk. I think that our advice historically has typically been in the realm of prepare for the thing you're trying to do and try to be prepared for, for those kinds of things, whether in the gym or in day-to-day life, like exposure is worthwhile and don't try to bite off more than you can chew in a lot of these situations. And beyond that, if you're still well-prepared for something and you still develop some, some backache, sometimes things just happen. And these things are not always 100% within our control. And sometimes even people who never do any of these things, be it bending or lifting or twisting, or, or don't at least recall an incident with one of those activities, they still develop potentially very debilitating back pain. And so, you know, I think that there is like a charitable way to interpret this, but at the same time, it's not the way that we typically try to communicate, um, around these topics to patients because it tends to generate relatively deeply seated, uh, kind of hypervigilance around movement. And we're trying not to, you know, I, ideally you go about your life, not really having to think about every, you know, postural detail or something like that. Right. Um, constantly 24 seven, that's not realistic in the same way that you should ideally not have to think about, you know, every calorie that is either entering your mouth or being expended by your body. Like ideally we can set up your daily habits, your diet, your dietary pattern, your food environment, so that you don't need that constant hypervigilance to everything. It kind of a similar concept when it applies to movement. And so these types of pieces of advice, I think are not as helpful as I think that, uh, this physician suspected it would be when he, uh, when he provided the quote. Yeah. Uh, the third surgeon is, uh, Dr. Patel is a spine surgeon at Northwestern medicine. Uh, he often sees patients, quote, running into trouble with activities such as pickleball, paddle tennis, and golf. There it is. He says flexibility is key. So build in a warmup and stretching routine. For example, with golf at a low back and chest stretch every three holes as an avid golfer. No, the dumbest thing I've heard, like one, it, this presupposes that doing regular, we'll call it flexibility exercise, just, you know, some sort of guided, you know, flexibility training reduces the incidence of low back pain, which is not the case. And in fact, when people get a little overzealous with stretching, it may actually cause more, more symptomology. Uh, but on the course, if I was playing with a person and every three holes, they went through this, this whole routine, I'd be like, dude, what are you doing? Yeah. Like this is ridiculous. They, uh, further say don't overload your carry on bag. Uh, that's not a motion that most people do every day. So be mindful not to overload your luggage. I personally never take a carry on bag on planes anymore. Wow. That's a remarkable. Instead of like, maybe get strong enough to where handling a carry on is a trivially easy task for you. Just never, never move anything over your overhead. This is like the doctor advice. Like, Hey, if that hurt, don't never do it ever, ever. Yeah. Whereas we come back from a different perspective. It's like, look, I want you to have to the extent it's possible, unrestricted movement. You know, you can do whatever you want. Unfettered access to the entire cornucopia of a movement library that has so far exists in, you know, human history. I want you to be ready and be able to do all of that fit for duty. Yeah. I want you to be 70, 80 plus years old and still able to lift your carry on into the overhead bin with no issues and no assistance from anyone else. Like have a carry on, be able to travel to be able to lift in the overhead luggage. And then finally, and you knew this was coming, steer clear sit-ups. Uh, they may put a lot of stress on the discs of your spine, core strengthening exercises such as planks, Pilates, swimming and yoga, and also the elliptical machine are a lot healthier for your back in general. We're personifying the back and back health, spine health. I mean, this, this is like the, it's like, it's like a, like a low back pain, nocebo bingo card. You got like, you know, reductionism to just a disc injury, despite most of the low back pain, not being related to a disc. You've got this, uh, you know, biomedical model where, Oh, there has to be an injury to the disc, the ligament, something. And that's what caused the pain, which again, most low back pain is, is specifically not, uh, nothing about doing more movements to like prepare yourself for things that you might face, but instead just avoid more, more things. And then disc, disc, disc, disc, disc. And it's like people already, even if they're not in the fitness space and even if, or even if they've been exposed to some of our material or material like ours, you hear disc, disc injury, disc rupture, it still kind of triggers this like, totally scary. Don't want that. Yeah. And you got all of them here. Yeah. I mean, this is, you could, you could, uh, mad lib this as Dr. Miles likes to do and, and fit in, you know, running and your knees, it could be tennis and your elbows or your shoulder. And it's like, yep, all of those sports that provide, you know, uh, deliver a particular stress, a little bit more biased towards a particular body area. People may be more susceptible to discomfort or overuse syndromes in that area, but the solution is not to just withdraw from that activity forever because it has the potential to contribute to some, you know, pain experience, but rather it's like, be mindful of the dosage, be mindful of your tolerance, your capacity. And if something crops up here are the tools that you can use to self-manage and get better through that, which is what we aim to the messaging that we aim to put out there instead of just never do this thing, because the solution there is just withdraw from all activity because all activity delivers some sort of physiologic mechanical stress to the body somewhere. And it's like, well, that dose is off. You might get some pain. Uh, and that's the, certainly a good way to avoid, you know, maybe the spine surgeons, uh, uh, operating table for a discectomy, but it's also a great way to end up in the primary care office or the ER with a complication of cardiovascular disease, because you develop metabolic syndrome from not, you know, moving for, uh, you know, a large portion of your life out of fear. Yeah. I guess that my question to you is now, this is, it is theoretically answerable if the data set existed, but, but I've been actively looking for something like this and there's just not a lot of data on this. But my, my speculation here is that if you took two groups of just twins, identical twins, and you split them right down the middle, one group of twins on one side, one group of identical twins on the other side, the one group of identical twins, they do not exercise. They don't lift weights or whatever, any of that. And now the other group, well, there, they are resistance training. They're exercising, whatever. And you compared low back pain incidents in both groups. I actually think they'd be pretty similar. The only study that exists like this is mostly on, uh, with cardio only where the one cardio group was doing like six hours a week of conditioning. The other group remained insufficiently active. And the number of injuries, including low back pain, was the same between both groups. And so it's like, I don't know actually that avoiding these things reduces your risk of low back pain. Uh, I think in fact, if you're avoiding all of these things to include exercise that would directly stress your low back in any sort of way, it actually just leaves you under-trained and maybe more vulnerable. Not to say that you need to be like, have the super robust sort of, you know, strength and muscle mass or whatever in order to prevent a low back pain, but at least it prepares you for the movement more than sitting on the couch. Yeah. It may just be trade-offs and shifting risks around instead of developing an overuse syndrome from maybe lifting a little bit more than you're ready for too much too soon. It leaves you under-trained and underdeveloped so that turning around to grab something out of the backseat of your car is too much too soon, you know? And so you end up ultimately in a similar place. Yeah. If New York times contacted me and they say, Hey, you want to review this just for like accuracy or whatever? I'd be like, yeah. So I think this is mostly harmful net negative, uh, does not provide a lot of actionable advice for folks that would actually make them healthier instead. Maybe we should do some stuff on pain education, like what it actually means to have low back pain, what it doesn't mean. It's probably not a disc injury most of the time, unless you have these certain signs and then which case, yeah, it's okay to be concerned and be evaluated. Let's introduce maybe the biopsychosocial model. Let's talk about exercise, like what you can do, find an entry point, all sorts of stuff. Uh, but yeah, no, none of that. Let's just, you know what, let's just talk about not lifting, like, you know, not having luggage, never, never BLT. Yes. Great sandwich by the way. And, uh, yeah, if you're going to blast this out to like a million subscribers, I think you have the responsibility to, uh, do a good job. Yeah. Here's a, here's an interesting kind of corollary to this. If we were to translate this into a different clinical setting, instead of talking to a spine surgeon about back pain, for example, let's say you went to an obesity medicine physician about their best tips to, uh, manage or avoid, you know, developing obesity. The analog of, I just don't carry a carry-on is, yeah, so I just don't eat. I just don't eat. Yeah. That's the analog of this. The way that I avoid, the way that I avoid gaining weight is I actually don't take in any energy and, uh, it's pretty foolproof. There you go. Yeah. Just don't eat. Eat less, move more. Thanks. New York times. Yeah. Right. All right. So we're gonna get into the mystery case. Now, before we do again, just to remind folks, it's a real case, uh, any jokes, any, any humor is purely for the, uh, entertainment portion of the edutainment, uh, sort of, uh, the word we, we made up. Also, I'll be playing the role of patient. So this is a little twist. Dr. Brock, he's going to have to treat me like his patient. So maybe more respect than normal. And, uh, I also do have to predict whether or not you're going to get this and get this. I'm, I'm defining this particular type with not only the diagnosis, but why it happened. So a little, little house type, type thing. So I'm going to say that you, no, you're not going to get it. Okay. Yeah. All right. So let's get into this. So Dr. Brockie is on call in the hospital, in his hospital. Uh, and he gets a, he's chart checking as, as he normally does, particularly in the emergency room. He wants to see, look, I got somebody coming to me, like what's going on. Am I going to the ed? And he sees that there is a patient who's been in the emergency room for a couple of hours. It's a 22 year old male, the four day history of fevers, difficulty swallowing and throat pain that's been associated with shortness of breath. And he thinks, man, I'm about to get a page for this. And serendipitously, boom, pager goes off. It's the emergency department. They want Dr. Brockie to come down and see this patient. I am playing the role of the patient. My name is Torque Leweth. And my friends call me T. So Dr. Brockie, take it away. All right. T did, did you pull your name from like a key and peel sketch? This sounds like one of those kinds of names. Exactly. I am a subscriber to the fandom website for key and peel first West challenge. Uh, that's correct. Perfect. All right, T well, tell me, uh, in the best way you can, what's going on today and what brought you in? Well, before we start, are you Austin Barbell medicine? Yes. Oh my God. I watch all of your stuff. I send your meme all over the place. I'm so happy that you're my doctor. Cause you get it. You get, I'm a lifter. Uh, you know, I'm a lifter, uh, bodybuilder. So not really your cup of tea, but, uh, I have, uh, been competing in bodybuilding for a few years. Um, yeah, I don't know. It's, it's really weird. Like four days ago, right before a workout, I had my normal pre-workout meal. So, you know, protein shake, uh, and some oatmeal and I went to the work, went to a workout. Uh, it was legs. So I did some squats, some Romanian deadlifts, uh, some hamstring curls and everything was fine. Lifted, lifted normally, came home, ate, ate dinner, normal dinner. Um, but that night it was, it was kind of weird. Yeah. I started feeling like not, not so good. Um, I thought, man, I maybe have a fever, but I don't have a thermometer. So I actually had to like, you know, Amazon prime that to myself. And yeah, it said 101, which, which I think is high. Um, and then I noticed when I tried to eat again later, cause you know, six meals a day, try to keep that metabolic furnace going. Yeah. I hear you. Yeah. Uh, it was tough. Like I couldn't really, I couldn't really eat. Like I, it was hard for me to, to chew and even harder to swallow cause it was pain, like painful. And so then I thought, Oh, I could just do like a put another protein shake, you know, like gotta get my protein in. Um, but yeah, it was even hard with like to drink like the protein shake, which is, which was just liquid. So I didn't, you know, I didn't feel like any food was getting stuck or whatever, but I thought, man, this is, this is weird. So I just went to bed, but that was four days ago. And every day it's kind of gotten a little worse. Like it's just hard for me to eat cause of, cause the pain and I can't really swallow. Um, yeah, I don't know. So, so four days now I've had, I've had this fever. It, you know, it's worse at night, um, for sure. And I can't really eat. And I'm really worried that I'm, you know, going to lose all my gains cause I can't eat, you know? So that's why I came here. Okay, great. Glad you came in. This does sound like something that needs some, some medical attention and you're doing some great acting so far as an, as an aside. Is it fair for me to assume that this patient would be as fluent in their speech as you are right now? Would they be able to speak in complete sentences like this or would the symptoms that they're having the throat pain difficult? ! cscholschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopschopsch So, yeah, I'm glad you came in and important that you notice these symptoms like the fever and difficulty swallowing and things like that. Have you had any vomiting during this period? No, I haven't haven't thrown up. I actually really haven't been sick to my stomach at all, which I think is because I haven't really been able to eat anything. So I'm just really hungry, to be honest, but I'm afraid to eat because it hurts. You know, that's fair. But you have been getting some fluids down, it sounds like, at least shakes. Or have you stopped drinking any fluids as well? Yeah, like this morning I tried to have a little bit of water and it was actually pretty painful to swallow. Like I thought maybe I had like strep throat or something like that with the fever and not really being able to swallow comfortably. So a little bit of water, but nothing with any calories in it. Okay. And before this, four days ago, it sounds like you were feeling great, like your normal self never didn't have any signs or issues at that time. Dude, I've been crushing the gym lately. It's been so awesome. But, yeah, it's just really weird. Like, I don't know, man. Okay. Yeah. Ever had anything like this before? Never. This is the first time. Okay. And any symptoms anywhere else in your body that you've noticed, like pain in your chest or rashes or anything else? Yeah, it is interesting that you mentioned that. I have like, I didn't want to mention it because I didn't really want to worry about it. I thought if I didn't think about it, I wouldn't worry about it. But like I have been having a little bit of chest pain. Mostly, like if I do happen to eat something or drink something, if I get it down, it does seem to hurt. Sure. Like right here, like right in the middle of my chest. Yeah. Yeah. But, yeah, other than that, it seems to go away a few hours after I try to eat something. But, yeah, I've had some of that too. Okay. And then any problems? So I mentioned something like any rashes or are you having any problems with urinating, for example? No, I've been going to the bathroom just fine, although probably less, I can think, now that I think about it. So, you know, I usually I'm a two gallons a day guy and just I haven't really been able to do that. So, like, I don't know. I probably go in the bathroom less, but no, no issues with that other than that. Okay. And then last couple of questions I saw from the ER board that you were having some shortness of breath. Not going to experience back to say? Yeah. It's mostly when I'm trying to like eat or drink. Like, I don't know that I'm like choking. Like, that's it's not like that because I don't feel like it's getting stuck per se. But, like, it's just not going down how it should. And I feel like right afterwards, yeah, I'm a little short of breath. But otherwise, like sitting here, I feel fine. Okay. Any cough? No cough. No. Okay. Gotcha. All right. Could you I'll probably come back with some other questions related to what's going on right now. But I'm curious if you have any other medical problems, anything else that you've ever been told you have, any other things you see doctors for? No, I don't take any medications. I mean, I haven't seen my doctor since, like, I was a kid. But, you know, I don't take any medications. I don't have any medical diagnoses that I know about. And I called my mom. I was like, hey, have you ever, like, had this? And she said, no, you need to go to the ER. So ultimately, I kind of went to the emergency room. Yeah. Probably pretty good advice right now. Okay. And aside from the medicines, what about supplements? I mean, yeah, a little bit. You know, I listen to your guys' podcasts. I'm a huge fan. Love your guys' stuff. Now, you probably won't like this because I've been taking a multivitamin, you know, for some years. But it's the same multivitamin and whatever. And then, yeah, I take pre-workout. But, again, big fan. So it's third-party tested. So, like, I'm pretty clear on that. But, yeah, pre-workout, for every workout. I don't take it on my off days when I just do some walks, you know, because it's got to stay lean. Got to get ready for this next bodybuilding show. Okay. Very good. And then my last question, at least right now before I'll break character and give some thoughts, is tell me about your sexual practices. Oh, yeah. Like, I broke up with my girlfriend a few months ago. She just didn't get it. You know, like, I was in the gym twice a day. And she said I didn't have, like, time to spend with her or whatever. So, yeah, not really active, I guess, for the last few months. But, yeah, no problems down there, you know what I'm saying? Never had any sexually transmitted infections? Not that I know of, no. Okay. All right. Very good. So we'll, I guess, pause here if that's acceptable. Is that the idea that you had for this kind of podcast? Yeah. All right. So we have this 22-year-old kid who is seemingly previously completely healthy without any known medical issues, coming in with four days of fever and this syndrome that is really centered around the throat relating to swallowing with some other associated symptoms that, so far, I'm interpreting as mostly kind of consequences of that initial issue. So, for example, he points out that the shortness of breath that he's experiencing is really just associated with when he's trying to get stuff down. The chest pain is just associated with when he's trying to get stuff down. And so I'm not interpreting those as, like, separate symptoms of shortness of breath or chest pain like we have maybe in some of our other mystery cases. It is really quite centered around the mouth-throat type area and associated with the fever, which is evidence of inflammation. And so I think that, you know, at the moment, that leaves me in a position where I'm kind of comfortable applying a label to this patient, like a working diagnosis of acute pharyngitis. Now, acute pharyngitis is not what I would call, like, a final diagnosis or a terminal diagnosis. It's a description of a syndrome. You can get pharyngitis from all sorts of issues. They can be due to infections, lots of different viral infections and bacterial infections. He even mentioned one himself, like strep throat. But more often, this is due to all sorts of different viruses. Mononucleosis, all sorts of things can be associated with pharyngitis and throat pain. And again, there's a long list of bacterial infections. And part of the reason I asked about sexual history in practice, for example, is that gonorrhea can cause a pharyngitis. And that's also why I asked about urinary symptoms. So there are some reasons behind asking those questions. This is a demographic where that would be, you know, not too unusual of a presentation of gonococcal pharyngitis, for example. But, you know, seems to be relatively low risk, even though I didn't go into as much detail on sexual history on this podcast as I would in person with a patient like this, just for the sake of our audience and since I don't think that's where you were leading me. But aside from infections, there are other things that can present with pharyngitis, you know, this kind of inflammatory syndrome centered in the throat. There are cancers, lymphomas and leukemias can present that way. There's all sorts of autoimmune conditions that can do this. The most characteristic is called Stills disease, one of my favorite and most interesting kind of diagnoses that I've caught a couple times over the years. This can also show up with certain forms of like drug induced hypersensitivity syndromes can present this way. And so that's kind of why I asked about supplements as well. If there's some sort of a, you know, drug contaminant or something like that that can manifest in this way. And then thyroid disorders can be in the neck, but kind of patients can interpret it as being in their throat. So thyroiditis and things like that, which we would look for some some signs of when we move forward a little bit. So I think that first and foremost, with these types of cases, acute pharyngitis for a couple of days, fevers, difficulty swallowing. The first thing we need to think about is, is there an infection in the throat? And more importantly, is there an infection that requires kind of more urgent evaluation? So is this patient have like an abscess, like a peritonsillar abscess or some pocket of pus or something that can be potentially, you know, threatening to their airway, their ability to breathe and speak. That's why I was paying attention to those things. Once people are no longer able to swallow their own saliva, for example, and they start drooling, it's like, OK, this is this is getting real bad. And so a lot of these patients, you know, will certainly move on and get some vital signs and in a physical exam, take a look in the throat, feel feel around the neck. But a lot of times patients like this end up, in addition to getting some some initial basic labs, if they're in an emergency department setting, they might get a contrasted CT of the neck. If there is sufficient concern to look for things like that. And it's not just a run of the mill presentation of something like strep throat. A lot of the times these are just viral, you know, sore throats. But this patient has persistent fevers for a few days. He does not have a cough. And all of those are things that can fit with strep throat, for example. So that's, you know, among the more likely diagnoses that I'd be thinking about first, while also knowing that this is a mystery case. And it's probably something a little bit more interesting, but trying to make it as realistic to what would happen in real life. So that's kind of my my initial thoughts here. So if it's OK, I'd like to move on. And if you are able to, you know, pull data and give me a sense of what are your vital signs, patient? And tell me about your physical examination of your throat and neck and things like that. Sure. Yeah. So let's give you some some data here. So vital signs are significant for an elevated heart rate to 110 beats per minute. Is fever in the emergency room is 101 degrees Fahrenheit. Otherwise normal blood pressure is normal. O2 sats are normal on room air. As far as the physical exam, the patient does appear non-toxic, well nourished, and he is alert and oriented. His head and neck exam, no lymph node swelling, no thrush, no focal deficits. The actual pharynx looks pretty normal. His cardiopulmonary exam is also normal. He's moving all of his extremities well. No rashes or lesions noticed on a skin exam. For labs, he did have a chemistry run sent in the lab, which is normal, except for his creatinine was 1.5. They also did a D-dimer, which was 595 nanograms per milliliter. Austin, hey, what's a D-dimer? Sure. So a D-dimer is a kind of a breakdown product of blood clots. It is involved in the coagulation and kind of a cascade at the tail end once things start breaking down. So this is kind of a crude marker of like there is some kind of clotting happening somewhere in this patient's body. And I imagine, you know, I don't think that I would have sent this in this patient necessarily, but I wonder if they heard that he had chest pain and shortness of breath and sent a D-dimer, which is actually, I would say, a little bit unexpectedly elevated in this patient. I would expect it to be lower than it than it is. So now the question becomes, what do we do with this thing, which is a common conundrum that people end up in when they order this kind of a test. I will also say it is interesting. It's reassuring. I was expecting, you know, it was plausible that we might find some swollen lymph nodes in this patient's neck. Or if we found thrush, that would definitely open up a significant concerns about this patient's immune status because he has no other reasons to have oral thrush, the fact that his throat looks visually completely normal is not shocking. But I was expecting to see something there, given the severity of his symptoms. And so if he's telling me he's having a lot of pain with swallowing and he's having this chest pain associated with swallowing, it's making me wonder, is this not so much a case of pharyngitis, but does he have potentially esophagitis? So is there something going on a little bit lower that I can't see just looking in his mouth? And esophagitis has its own list of possibilities. Acute esophagitis is a little bit more unusual. It can be due to certain infections like candida and viral infections and things like that. But it can also be due to just like irritants to the esophageal kind of mucosa of the surface. If people have swallowed something, whether it be foreign bodies or somebody tries to self-harm or accidentally drink some bleach or something like that, that can irritate the esophagus and cause a lot of pain with swallowing and pain in the chest after eating. So now I'm kind of entertaining. Is it pharyngitis? Is it esophagitis? Am I completely off base? And I need to start looking completely someplace else in the patient's neck area to try to find where is the actual problem here? Yeah. Other labs that were ran, infectious panels. So he's negative for HIV, for cytomegalovirus, CMV, and negative for herpes simplex virus, HSV. Some imaging was also performed that you have access to. He had an EKG performed that just showed sinus tachycardia, but otherwise normal complexes. And he had a CT chest done. I guess because you run that D-dimer, you got to get a CT chest. Yes, that's what happened. Showed no pulmonary embolism, but there was some circumferential distal esophageal thickening. So we'll pause there. Austin, do you have any further thoughts on this particular patient? Yeah. Still a bit puzzling. If I go through these labs, his creatinine of 1.5 could be because he's not eating or drinking very much for a couple days, or it could be if he is well-muscled. The test for that would be give him a little fluids, especially since his heart rate's up, which could also be due to the fever, but see if it gets better. But I'm not terribly concerned about that right now. Now, the fact that he's HIV negative is helpful because, again, esophagitis, infectious esophagitis and things like that are definitely something we see more often in patients with compromised immune systems. Not much to say about the EKG, not terribly surprising. And so now we have this thickening of his lower esophagus. The question is, A, what could that be? And B, does that fully explain his presenting symptoms? I would say that it could explain some of the symptoms. So what kind of things can happen in the esophagus that result in this kind of visualized thickening on a CT scan? You can have kind of long-term thickening if there's some sort of like precancerous, cancerous type process developing, which in general we don't really see in 22-year-olds. It's something that usually takes quite a bit longer to develop. There are some infections that can happen in the esophagus that I alluded to earlier. Not so much something that I would expect to see just on a CT scan or just in the lower esophagus. And there are some kind of autoimmune inflammatory things that can lead to esophageal thickening, but those also don't tend to show up so abruptly like this patient's situation did. The last thing is that I wouldn't expect something in the distal or the lower part of the esophagus, that's right before it enters the stomach, to cause tons of throat pain or pain with swallowing. Usually that might cause some feeling of food getting stuck in the chest as it's trying to move its way down the esophagus and get in there. And so I'm a bit puzzled as far as how related this is. It can explain some of the symptoms, but I'm still reaching a little bit to try to figure out why is he having a fever? Why does his throat hurt so bad? And so the next things that I'd be thinking about here is do I need actually dedicated neck imaging because a chest CT doesn't actually get a totally sufficient assessment of the soft tissues of the neck? And do we need to ask a specialist to send a camera down, whether to look in his throat and or in down his esophagus to see what we might find down there? I think those are probably the next couple steps. This patient would at this point probably get admitted to the hospital to undergo some of these things and because he was actively fevering when he came in and try to try to figure out what's going on here. Yeah. So they did send a camera down my throat, I guess, an esophageal endoscopy. And that showed severe punctate ulcerations, linear ulcers and scattered linear gastric erosions. A biopsy was sent that showed severe chronic inflammation of the squamous mucosa with basal cell hyperplasia and lots of eosinophils. You can also talk to the patient again if you prefer, because at this point I'm going to have to ask you for a diagnosis and a cause. So that's the information that you have unless you want to talk to the patient again. Okay. Well, at this point, you know, I'm curious, of course, always going to be how the patient's feeling and what his trajectory was like if he's been admitted to the hospital. Has he had persistent fevers this whole time or what else could be going on? Nursing staff reports. So they started, you know, you because he hadn't been able to drink or anything, you start him on some IV hydration, you know, and the fevers, the tachycardia, the elevated creatinine all resolved with the IV hydration. But, yeah, what's up with this endoscopy report, you know? Sure. Yeah, so that endoscopic description is something that does raise concern for an inflammatory esophagitis. And so that, again, kind of like when I said pharyngitis, is not a terminal diagnosis, but rather kind of a working diagnosis. And a lot of different things can cause inflammation in the esophagus to include infections and autoimmune conditions being the top two things that I would think about. And this did not have the classic appearance that I would expect from something like candidal esophagitis, which is something that is kind of like having thrush except all the way down your esophagus. Herpes viral esophagitis can cause punctate ulcerations. CMV esophagitis can cause linear erosions in the esophagus. Severe reflux can cause linear kind of erosions and ulcerations in the esophagus. And so I'd be curious if this patient has maybe a history of, like, reflux-type symptoms that he's never, you know, thought much of or didn't tell us about. Or if anything else, you know, if this rings a bell, if we're talking about heartburn or I always go back and grill patients in this demographic about, are you sure you're not taking any other new or different supplements? Or have you been trying anything new or different lately to see if anything else rings a bell or comes to mind for them? Man, Austin Barbell Medicine, that's crazy. You know, you mentioned that. I feel like an idiot. It's like I've never had, like, heartburn, at least what I think it feels like. But I'm telling you, man, like, you know, I've been taking this pre-workout. It gets third-party tested, so it's, like, really good, you know? So I listen to your guys' podcast. But, like, after I took it four days ago, it felt like, I don't know, like, I felt like my chest was on fire. I don't know, like, I've never felt anything like that. But, you know, I just got to get my workout. I didn't want to go do it. It's a 22-year-old, you know? So, like, so whatever. And it kind of went away when I was working out. But then, yeah, like, right afterwards, it was kind of hard to eat. But I still got it down. And it just kept getting worse. And I had the fever. Well, you know the rest of the story. But, yeah, that's the only thing I can tell you, man. Sure. Okay. So I have a couple, you know, kind of, I guess, final thoughts here. One is, I think in the endoscopic report, you mentioned lots of eosinophils. That is a very unusual and unexpected finding for most forms of kind of inflammation in the body. There is a diagnosis called eosinophilic esophagitis. It is most often, you know, thought of as an autoimmune type condition where these particular types of immune cells are activated and cause inflammation and esophageal symptoms. Again, they don't tend to present this abruptly in most patients with, like, fevers and all of a sudden developing the syndrome. It's more often people having what I would call more, like, subacute to chronic kind of symptoms associated with eating, swallowing. Sometimes this can lead to the development of things like strictures and stenosis in the esophagus that do lead to food getting stuck and things like that. So I'm curious about the potential diagnosis of eosinophilic esophagitis in this patient. But the other thing is we do have this unusually abrupt onset. And we have this temporal association with this patient's new supplement use. And so could it be either that there is some ingredient in the supplement that can potentially trigger an eosinophilic response, an eosinophilic esophagitis? Or does the pre-workout product itself contain some sort of kind of mucosal irritant? As I mentioned earlier, the most extreme example is like when people drink bleach and end up with severe caustic esophageal injuries. Is there something in this product that is leading to this kind of, like, irritant, inflammatory kind of mucosal response? For him to have fevers for days afterwards, unless he's been continuing to use this, even in that situation, is, like, a little surprising to me. But I think that it's hard to ignore the temporal relationship there between this new exposure and this syndrome. So I'd be probably doing two things. I'd be asking for him to provide the information about this product that he's been using and then start aggressively searching all of the ingredients and what is known or reported out there about it. I would also probably be looking for are there any kind of case reports of this kind of thing happening before? Maybe I'll come across the very case report that you are pulling this from. And then definitely be talking to the pathologist who kind of reported the results of the endoscopy, talking to the gastroenterologist who performed it about their thoughts, particularly because, like, a gastroenterologist is somebody who would see a lot more cases of eosinophilic esophagitis than I would. I'm aware of it, and I see a handful of cases a year, but I'm not an expert in that condition, particularly with this type of presentation. So that's kind of where I am right now. Yeah. I'll give you one more shot as the cause and such. Yeah. Because, you know, yeah, you do get to talk to the gastroenterologist and to the pathologist and get a little report here. They're calling this an esophageal ulcer. They're like, the eosinophils are kind of funky, but, like, this looks like, smells like an esophageal ulcer. We don't know why, but that's what it looks like. We're calling it an esophageal ulcer. It's up to you, doc. Figure out why does this patient have an esophageal ulcer out of a 22-year-old? What the heck? Yeah. So this is where I'm probably at the, you know, I'm getting stretched at the limits of my typical experience. So an acute febrile syndrome with a presumed acute esophageal ulcer, you know, this is something that I would be starting to do some searching and talking to some consultants and some friends to seek out why so abrupt, why febrile. And, yeah, that's, I think I'm kind of tapped out at this point. So, yeah, what you got? All right. So this particular patient had an esophageal ulcer. That was the diagnosis. And the clinical team who wrote up this report concluded that it was from dry scooping his pre-workout. Had you asked the patient how he was taking the pre-workout, he would say that he was dry scooping it. Effectively, he had ran out, patient reported, would have reported that he ran out of the solvent that he was previously using to dissolve his pre-workout. And he was just dry scooping it for weeks leading up to this, you know, this particular instance where he had some, you know, felt like heartburn to him. And then subsequently he had a fever and everything else and had some difficulties eating and drinking. He was started on a proton pump inhibitor, a PPI, and his diet was advanced while he was in the hospital. The patient was able to tolerate a normal diet before discharge. He was continued on the PPI for eight weeks. At four weeks, they did another endoscopy on this patient, and it was basically normal at that time. So they're calling it an esophageal ulcer secondary to dry scooping his pre-workout supplement. Well, that is very interesting. It is puzzling in a bunch of ways. If he's doing this for weeks and then presenting that abruptly is interesting. That presumably is when the ulceration, like, reached some sort of a critical threshold. Critical mass, yeah. Persistent fevers, though, is a little surprising in that context if there was never any sort of infectious complication that was identified. A lot of good teaching points from this, I would say, even for, like, general medical trainees and students, you know, about the differential diagnosis of both pharyngitis and esophagitis in a patient like this, as well as autoimmune, I suppose, getting into eosinophilic esophagitis as well. Dry scooping your supplements leading to ulceration. That is wild. So nice find. Good case, I suppose. You know, when it comes to, you know, patients who use certain types of drugs, I'm certainly in the habit of always asking them, you know, how they administer them, right? Because different drugs administered by different routes, whether inhalation or injection or anything like that, can lead to dramatically different complications. The route of administration of a pre-workout supplement is, although I guess it's the same route, but just like the method is not something I've ever thought to ask specifically. Are you raw dogging the supplement, as they say? Or are you actually dissolving it? Maybe I'll have to think about asking that when that becomes relevant in the future. Yeah, there were a few other case reports I found on some strange ways, not only just dry scooping, but also other ways that people have used a pre-workout supplement. Some people have snorted it and had, you know, nasopharynx, you know, inflammation and other issues related to that. Makes sense. I also thought, what if you ever made like a pre-workout suppository, like you'd have a whole other potential list of complications or like a, what if you made like a dip kind of thing? Buckle absorption. Yeah, you could, and there are mechanistic reasons why you could promote all of these things to say why they're so much better because they're bypassing enteric or enteropathic circulation and all sorts of things like that. And people who don't know any different would be like, sure, that sounds awesome. Let's do it. Yeah. Yeah. So let's talk about esophageal ulcers and dry scooping. So it's pretty interesting stuff here. And I think, I don't know, I did think this case, like obviously this person was probably terrified. Yeah. And reasonably, you know, rightfully so. But yeah, I've kind of found this one. I'm like, bro, you're dry scooping and had. Anyway. Okay. So an esophageal ulcer is a, you know, discrete break in the tissue lining the esophagus. And we say mucosa is just the cells that are lining the organ. In this case, the esophagus, the main cause, most common cause is GERD. So gastroesophageal reflux disorder, usually from the lower esophageal sphincter. That's just like little, you know, muscle that separates the esophagus from the stomach. It's either weak or it's inappropriately relaxing. And so you get this sort of caustic, acidic, you know, contents of your stomach, the gastric juice interacting with the mucosa, the tissue of the esophagus, and that can lead to an esophageal ulcer. So you get an injury that way. The second most common cause is drugs. Most commonly would be like a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, something like that, ibuprofen or antibiotics, specifically like doxycycline. That's pretty common. But the GERD causing this like 60 to 80 percent of cases, drugs about 20 percent of cases, lots of different drugs. Almost any drug could theoretically cause this. But as far as supplements go, there have been documented case reports of like L-arginine and caffeine causing this stuff, particularly in powder form. The ingredients of this particular individual's pre-workout included malic acid, which also has been associated with acid-induced injury. The pH of malic acid is 2 to 3. Citric acid, pure citric acid has a pH of 1.5. It's very, very acidic, right? Water 7 is neutral. Citric acid, 1.5. That's very, very acidic. Tartaric acid was also in the supplement. That is a pH of 1.6. Interestingly, there was a study that was conducted with the purpose of analyzing the pH, so how acidic the thing was, of energy drinks and pre-workout beverages. Now, of the 20-something pre-workout powders that they analyzed, the way that they did the studies, they mixed them with water, which would make these things less acidic because water is neutral. pH is 7. And the pH ranged from 3 to 4 when mixed with water. Yeah. So imagine if it was not mixed with water. Sure. Likely lower with being dry scooped. And the transit is likely slower because now, instead of it being the smooth sort of thing, it, you know, tends to go down. Your esophagus is, you know, we call it peristaltic contraction, which is basically like a rhythmic beating of the esophageal muscle to move stuff from top to bottom, get into your stomach. Well, powder is going to flow a lot more slowly and expose that mucosa, that tissue, a little bit longer compared to something mixed with water. And so probably direct caustic exposure damaging the tissue here. I suspect that his lower esophageal sphincter was intact and working fine. He just, you know, had been dry scooping this stuff for a while. And yeah, after a while, caused this ulcer that led to these sort of symptoms. Yeah. I had mentioned a couple of times the idea of a caustic, you know, irritation. Those are typically like more basic compounds. This is like, it definitely seems on the more acidic side. And it makes me think of like, if you were to take a drug that is normally known to cause like pill esophagitis and you try to crush it and you'd end up with like powdery form of the pill, it'd probably, you know, do the same thing. So this is effectively that. Yeah. Super interesting. Infections can also cause this, like you'd mentioned, not only herpes, HSV, CMV, HIV, a bunch of other types of infections as well. You can get radiation, you know, that could cause esophageal ulcer, various autoimmune diseases, various cancers, genetic conditions. The lists are long, but most commonly drugs and GERD. Symptoms, heartburn, chest pain, usually not related. So non-cardiac sort of chest pain. Although there was a case report from dry scooping of an ST elevation myocardial infarction, a STEMI, so a heart attack. Wow. A healthy 25 year old man from dry scooping. I'd be more concerned about what ingredients were in that, but yeah. Yeah, exactly. But yes, you can get this heart pain, this non-cardiac chest pain. You can get difficulty swallowing. So that call that dysphagia. You can get pain with swallowing, call that odynophagia. You get nausea, vomiting, lack of appetite. Usually when people have problems swallowing or it's painful, their appetite tends to go down. It's like a learned sort of response. You can get bleeding if the ulcer is actually bleeding. Yep. So hematemesis, if you're throwing it up, melana, so if it ends up in the stool and it's taken, you know, it's not a, we call it a brisk bleed. So if it's relatively slow, it can be dark in the stool. But if it's fast and a lot of blood's coming out, it can be bright red. We call that hematochesia. So you guys are learning a lot of medical terminology here. As far as evaluation goes, yeah, the upper GI endoscopy for both diagnosis and treatment can be very useful here. Or people can do an esophagram or barium swallow, for example. As far as treatment goes, if it's bleeding, the main thing, you got to stop the bleeding, protect the airway. Those are the like two, you know, most important things are off the bat. If it is gastroesophageal reflux disease or GERD, a proton pump inhibitor or other medications can be useful. If it's an infection, you got to treat the thing appropriately, whether it's an antiviral or antibiotic or fungus, antifungal. Although then you have other questions. How did this thing end up there? If it's a caustic sort of cause, first thing, you got to remove the caustic agent, secure the airway. You got to make the patient NPO, so nothing by mouth due to risk of perforation, particularly if it's actively bleeding. And you can advance the diet. It's tolerated. There's a whole, what's the scale? It's like a Zagrim or something. Like it's a predictive model of how severe the ulcer is. Anyway, that's well beyond my training. But I did read that. There I go.  aut autoprilaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguagu workout, 17% reported dry scooping in the past year. So the big pearl here is a fair amount. Yeah. Big take home. Don't dry scoop. Just add some water. Just add some water. Not difficult. Yeah. Or like, don't take a pre-workout like whatever. Like we, we obviously make a pre-workout. I think that if you're trying to get the most out of your training, both performance wise in a session and get the most gains from every session short, a multi-ingredient pre-workout supplement, which is the, use the acronym MIPS could be useful. Just don't dry scoop it and make sure there's no like bleach in it also. Like you generally, generally would avoid, uh, you know, highly caustic agents, but so yeah, I, uh, I, I suppose this practice involves just trying to swallow dry powder completely, which I is, is, I don't know. I can't believe people actually do this, especially at that rate. I will take creatine oftentimes in powder form, but then it is getting washed down with a substantial amount of water afterwards rather than trying to dissolve it in a glass first. Um, but just straight dry powder, trying to like choke that down seems, uh, I don't know, very unpleasant to me. Yeah. I would be very curious of like the transit time of like pure powder. So no, no liquid at all. Also like choking hazard potentially versus like, all right, you did the scoop and then like a small little bit of water, right? Okay. What's the pH there? What's the transit time? And then like, okay, per manufacturer's instructions, like 12 to 16 ounces of water, mix it up, you know, whatever, then what is the pH and what's the transit time there? I mean, obviously the pH as measured by that other study was somewhere between three and four. So still pretty acidic, but because it's liquid, it's just not in your esophagus for very long. Right. Saliva has likely, you know, made this a little more basic, a little more neutral. Um, and then it just gets into the stomach and you got nothing to worry about, but if it stay in there for a while, particularly like these like granules of, you know, whatever, I mean, it seems plausible. Yeah. Good, good find, man. Good. Uh, I learned today. Um, and I think, uh, our audience probably did too. Maybe if there's any of that 17% in our audience, maybe they will, uh, rethink this practice if it's something they do habitually. Yeah. Stay off TikTok also. Generally good advice. Yeah. All right. That is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine podcast, where we bring modern medicine into strength, conditioning and strength, conditioning, modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for, uh, blessing us with his clinical acumen also for tolerating my, my acting chops. They are rudimentary at best before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Remember, everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Have a great week. Have a great day.

=== FILE: How Does Weight Loss Change Cholesterol Levels？ [I3MVuKYKZvQ].txt ===

How are lipid panels affected by dieting? So in general, let's talk about after you've lost weight, right? So you've dieted and lost weight and then we'll talk about what happens while you're actively dieted. After you lost weight, usually a 5 to 10% weight loss produces a about 10 to 15% reduction in LDL and maybe a little bit greater reduction in triglycerides, which can be useful. Particularly if you were carrying too much body fat before. If you lose more weight, you can see a greater decrease in those numbers, right? So if you lost 20% body weight, you may see a given greater decrease in your LDL and your triglycerides. And in general, HDL tends to stay the same. If you start exercise at the same time, HDL may even increase overall good. Now the nuance here is that if you were a candidate for statins prior to losing weight, meaning that your 10-year risk of having a bad outcome. So you were a 10-year risk of having a heart attack or stroke or something like that was high and you were a good candidate for statins. The treatment goal for LDL reduction is 50%. 50. Reduce your LDL by 50%. And so if the average amount of LDL reduction you can expect by reducing your body weight 5 to 10%, which is a pretty substantial weight loss, right? Is 10 to 15%. You're not getting there. You're less than 3 times less than the sort of that minimum threshold. So it doesn't mean that you shouldn't even try to lose weight, just take the statins, forpig pharma. Now what I'm saying is just that we should not avoid medications when they provide clear benefit. And it doesn't mean that the person maybe necessarily needs to be on a statin forever. It's just to reduce that risk, substantially going forward. Maybe that's the initial movement. What happens to the lipid panel while you're actually dieting. You can think about this as the body fat. You're actually liberating a lot of stored fat into the bloodstream and you're using it for fuel. And so a blood test, particularly a cholesterol test, is a snapshot in time of how much fat is in your blood, how much fat is being carried around by certain proteins in your blood. And so let's say then you stick the needle in the vein, pull out the blood. Oh crap, there's way more fat in your blood at this particular time. It's like, well yeah, it's on its way to the muscle tissue to be oxidized for fuel, for example. And so you see that all the time that people, their triglyceride levels will be significantly elevated while they're losing weight. Sometimes even their LDL will be elevated while they're losing weight. It usually doesn't happen after you've lost weight and you're weight has plateaued, but certainly during weight loss. So the recommendation for lipid panel intervals is about, is every six months, I believe, after you've initiated it, all of those some clinicians will do three month intervals. I, when I was actively seeing patients and somebody was trying to lose weight and for lifestyle, we were trying to lifestyle recommendations initially. I would effectively try to schedule that second lipid test till after a period of time, we were given that a lose weight and then maintain it. Meaning that if it's going to take you more than three months to kind of lose the weight, I would extend the interval time so that you are weight neutral, maintaining your weight, your new lower weight before I tested. Got another lipid test. Yeah, I don't think there's a great reason to check lipid panel super frequently. IMean, I, I, I, I, I, I definitely, every three months is, is I think too frequent to be super useful. I would just not check blood tests while you are actively aggressively trying to lose weight and then check things, you know, like that after things have stabilized. So, good.

=== FILE: How Important is a Post-Workout Shake？ [8HAFZKFRiS0].txt ===

 d Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. So what's the controversy here? Well, nutrient timing is a popular strategy for enhancing training adaptations and performance. From the standpoint of muscle strength and size, for example, the concept of a, quote, post-workout anabolic window has been proposed, whereby a limited time exists after exercise to optimize training adaptations. Some have gone so far as to claim that nutrient timing is even more critical to muscle development as total calories and total macronutrient intake. As far as why this controversy exists, I think that it's like a perfect storm. One is there's been this increased recognition that recovery from exercise is important, and there's been a lot of evidence on like sort of what mechanisms are at play. So like, ooh, you exercise and you're depleting your glycogen levels in the muscle. You're breaking down muscle protein, and then if you replace them immediately, theoretically, your body will supercompensate. You'll store more glycogen. You'll store more protein, add bigger muscles. Athletes at the highest level, there's often like very intensive efforts to right after they're done with a training session, they got to recover by some sort of mechanism, whether it's eating like whole foods or some sort of supplement. There's also a lot of marketing for supplements based around this. Oh, you need post-workout carbs and the specific type of carbs, whether it's a highly branched cyclic dextrin, whether it's pure glucose, you know, whatever, something like that. And this focus on mechanisms like, ooh, this increases muscle protein synthesis or this increases the rate of glycogen replenishment or decreases the rate of muscle protein breakdown. All of those mechanisms are reasonable to investigate and discuss, but we can't, you know, blind ourselves to, well, what are we really looking for? Because I personally, I don't really care about my muscle protein synthesis rate compared to, well, what did my strength do? What did my muscle size do? How did my endurance performance do after this particular intervention? Muscle protein synthesis, muscle protein breakdown, glycogen breakdown, glycogen resynthesis rates, those are all short-term sort of proxies for like what's going on in the body to tell you like, well, is this person going to gain more muscle mass? Is this person going to gain more muscle size or muscle strength? Is their endurance performance going to be supported? But you can actually measure those things too. And so like measure the proxy if you want. That's fine for generating hypotheses, but then you got to test it later on. But the last part here that I think also contributes to the controversy here is generally speaking, poor study design. Because a lot of the studies that led to this controversy about a quote-unquote anabolic window, post-workout anabolic window, tested untrained individuals who were previously fasted going into a session. And it's like, well, yeah, if you're fasted, that's a totally different person than someone who's fed going into a workout. And so the quote-unquote effects of post-workout nutrition would be different for somebody who is fasted compared to being fed. You see the same thing with intra-workout nutrition where people are like, oh, you got to eat like gummies in the middle of a workout. And it's like, well, maybe if you were fasted, that's different than if you were fed, and that's what the data shows. Mostly unnecessary intra-workout nutrition unless the sessions are longer than about 90 to 120 minutes. And that's mostly in either really high-volume resistance training or very intensive sort of endurance efforts or even prolonged efforts. Yeah, not an hour and a half or two-hour session because your rest periods are 10 to 15 minutes long. Yeah, or you're yapping, you're spitting game, which 0 to 10 would not recommend. So let's see if we can come up with a consensus here and wrap this up. So based on existing data in the fed state, there's little evidence supporting the need to immediately consume a post-workout meal. And most of the time, that's being recommended as a combination of protein and carbohydrates in that post-workout window. This is provided that a person otherwise eats the same amount of calories, the same macronutrient intake, et cetera. If fasted, whether overnight or otherwise greater than four to six hours between meals with no snack before a workout, sure, would recommend hustling to get a meal in. But that's mostly because you haven't eaten in a while. A few exceptions here. First exception, if there's a short turnaround before the next training session or competition. So, for example, like eight hours or less than eight hours. Yeah. Post-workout nutrition, very, very important just because you have a limited amount of time here. But if we're talking about 24 hours or 48 hours between your next exercise session because you work out three days a week, which, hey, we're big fans of, this doesn't apply to you. Just go on living your life. Yeah. Totally. If you have a very high training volume such that you're spending 20 hours, 30 hours a week exercising, well, because of that, you have a limited amount of time overall in your week to eat. And so at that point, post-workout nutrition becomes far more important just because you have a limited amount of time to take in enough energy to support your existing body weight and subsequent performance. So overall, I would recommend that folks eat somewhere between three to five meals per day, three to five hours apart. And it should produce a situation where an individual is fed for each workout and gets a meal after each workout. It's just the timing of that meal after the workout to me doesn't really matter unless somebody is like, look, I'm going to train again in a few hours or I got another competition in a few hours. If you prefer to train first thing in the morning and you want to be fasted, well, yeah, that post-workout meal is going to become more important. But not because of this, quote, post-workout anabolic window. So it's mostly because you were fasted before and now it's time to eat. Yeah, I remember getting, I mean, this was 20 years ago at this point, but just getting blasted all the time with ads from like T Nation for every possible supplement to take. Like pre, intra, early, intra, late, post, before bed, day off. Like they went hard with that kind of stuff. I'll be honest. This is something that I haven't thought about ever in years. In years. I think that there was a time very early on in my training career where, you know, I didn't know anything and I was listening to, you know, the advice that was around at the time. So I did try to get something in like probably a lot quicker than I needed to afterwards. But these days, yeah, not something I think about really at all. And, you know, for example, recently with this move and all the effort and work and how crazy those days can be, it's actually worked out best for me to try to get up and go and get some training in first thing in the morning before the day starts. And I get sucked up in projects or whatever else needs to happen around the house. And I've just gotten up and I've gone and I've been fasted and I've done my training, not because I prefer to train that way, but it just is. And I've not given any thought to this concern over my anabolic potential or my window in that time frame. I just eat when I get back and then go on living my life. And ultimately it's fine. Is there any compromise? I mean, maybe, but it's also a compromise that would only be in the short term anyway. I would rather train fasted than not train or train fasted and maybe actually perform a little better when I'm energized in the morning compared to waiting until later in the day when I would otherwise feel bettered and ready to train. But I've been smoked by like working around the house all day or something like that. Right. So there's a lot of tradeoffs to consider. And this window is not one of them, at least for me. And I don't think it is for you either. Yeah, correct. Yep. I think ultimately that I just want to have my three to five meals a day. I eat when I eat. I want to, I prefer to have a meal within 90 minutes prior to exercising. And then because my, if it's 90 minutes before and then my workout session takes 90 minutes. So now I'm at three hours that I got to go home, a shower or whatever. It's another hour or so. Well, now it's four hours, but time to eat again. And so that's my post-workout meal, but I'm not like bringing a shaker to the gym, you know, and like, I just finished my last set. I leave all the equipment out. I hustle to fill it up with water. Like, I got to get it in now. Yeah. Yeah. Body doesn't work that way, particularly when you were fed going into it for sure. Here's my hot take. You ready for a hot take? Sure. I think that generally speaking, people consuming a lot of intro workout food. I think that's, that's generally net negative for the vast majority of individuals. And here's why. One, most folks are not training at a high enough level and doing enough training where they have limited opportunities to eat. Otherwise, that's one thing too. Most people are not training long enough where, yeah, really making sure that you have enough glycogen on board in your muscles to fuel activity is the rate limiting step. It's just, look, if you're training two, three hours at a time, different situation, particularly if you're fasted, but most people are not. And so there's really no benefit to consuming food in between. But instead what you're doing is limiting the sort of period between meals where your body is like figuring out how to deal with low energy availability, clearing sugar. You know, you're just all perma fed. And it's the same thing. Constantly postprandial. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's kind of like when people are in the hospital and they're getting, you know, TPN or something like that around the clock. And you're like, yeah. So in addition to the medical condition for why you're in the hospital, that's contributing to some insulin resistance and this, that, and the other. But you're also constantly fed. And so it's just like constantly grazing throughout the day versus having discrete meals, which is what you would prefer. And, oh, by the way, the majority of foods that people are consuming in the middle of a workout are highly processed, added sugar or whatever that are not very filling. And so to me, that represents a nidus for like excess energy intake. And I'm like, bro, you didn't need that. Most of the time. If you need to gain weight and that's the strategy you want to pick, like fine, I guess. But, yeah, it's just funny to me. I see people with these huge jugs of, you know, basically liquid sugar, right? Yeah. And they're just consuming it throughout a workout and they're doing like some bodybuilding stuff. And I'm like. Yeah. That definitely is not a context where that makes sense to me. I think the ultra endurance stuff, the, you know, super, super high volume aerobic work, things like that, where they're sucking down gels on their, you know, 90 grams an hour training, stuff like that. That's totally fair. I don't see any almost any situation where I'd be doing that in a in a lifting context, particularly if I'm training to my preference relatively frequently because I could not train that high volume in one session as often as I'd like to train in general. How many people do you think that are having like, you know, during a lifting session, 50, 75 gram, 100 grams of carbs during a workout from, you know, added sugar or just pure sugar, whatever. How many of those folks do you think are like, I would never have a regular Coke? Yeah, right. And it's like, I mean, you could, if you wanted to, that would be the time. Theoretically. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. In the same way that general dietary patterns probably shouldn't be that sweet. You should probably also not always be fed. There you go. There you go. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Five nutrition controversies that probably shouldn't be controversial. Just wanted to bring to your attention again. If you want to become a Barbell Medicine Plus member, you want to listen to the podcast ad free, you want early access to them, you want discounts on our products, early access to our products, and all for the cost of about a cup of coffee a month. And the first month's free. Head to barbellmedicine.supercast.com. We'd really appreciate your support there. And before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week. you

=== FILE: How Sore and Tired Should You Get From Exercise and How-To Adjust Training [A652sNIRrvg].txt ===

We're going to try to answer some of these curated questions that you guys have submitted. Alright, question number one. How do you effectively balance trening so you are still making improvements but aren't functionally useless the next day or two or even longer? This sidebar. When was the last trening session that you had that just laid you out completely? It's been many, many, many years. Probably the last one I could remember was like probably about the time when I quit Texas method. Oh yeah, yeah. Programme that I would not do again. I think IMean the last time that I was so sore or like just beaten down after a trening session is when we went to that CrossFit level 1 MD thing in Hawaii. In Hawaii and I remember we were walking to the car and I was like there's a disturbance in the force. You know, likEQuads? Like yeah. But I wasn't like useless. I was just annoyed because then I couldn't really tren productively the next time I wanted to tren. Oh you mean, so at the seminar they actually made us do a couple of wads with them. Yes. That was why that happened to you. My favorite part of that whole experience was Austin and I were in different squat groups so they're trying to teach us the squat and it would PVC PIPe right. It's the front squat and my front squat is terrible. I like to blame my anthropometry. Austin likes to blame my lack of athleticism. But I'm being told there with the PVC PIPe like wedged up against my beard. It's guys like beautiful front rack position, excellent mobility or whatever. And Austin is in the corner getting squat therapy because apparently he's got butt wink or something. A lot of his squat. It is taking everything in my power not to start laughing at him. That's my favorite part of that. Yeah. Besides random glassmen sort of excerpts. But to answer this question, I don't know that at any point in my trening career, since I've been using auto regulation and actually kind of been thinking more about my the process of getting stronger that I've been so sore or so tired after trening session that it's actually made a difference in anything I've done afterwards. IMean, during the best most productive trening years, trening wise in my life, I took all of my boards. I, you know, did my intern year in residency of graduate medical school, like started this business, like whatever. So at no point was my, I guess, cognitive function impaired significantly at no point that I have to miss a trening session because I was like two sore. There's been modifications, but those are all kind of baked into the trening, which is the idea. Your trening session should meet you where you're at on a given day based on your performance potential and that performance potential is intimately related to how great you're good you're feeling, right? How well you're functioning, which you can only tell like when you're in the gym, right? They'll have like indicator weights for certain movements, like you hit this weight and you're like, all right, do that move fast or slow. It tells you like, am I going to be stronger than normal or not quite a strong on a given day? On average, you know, again, it's a bell curve kind of thing. Most days, I'm going to average level of strength. Some days are better than others, but I, to answer this particular question, I think if you're routinely feeling beat up and like your personal life, professional life is suffering, secondary to trening, I would, I would, the trening program probably needs to be adjusted. And if it's one of our trening programs, which is possible, IMean, I had a guy come up and say he's running one of our hypertrophy templates and he's like, I've never been more sore in my entire life. And I'm like, instead of like, I don't know if you wanted to tap on the back, right? Like, yeah, brother, you're good for you. I was like, hey, man, I'd probably lower the RP target RP of each set by two or so. The idea is like, maybe you see their overshooting or going to failure, or close to failure too often, or otherwise sort of maybe partying too much stress for what you can currently handle. And that's kind of leaving and feeling beat up and tired to whatnot. So that's how I would address this is, is adjust the trening stress. Yeah, the first thing I think of when I hear that somebody is feeling useless for two days after a trening session is this is a major programming issue. You're either doing too much or what you're doing is too hard. So those are my usual interventions at that time point is probably upfront. I'm going to look at the program and if it seems like a reasonable dosage of trening, I'm going to bump the RP targets down by a point or two or whatever. Some made up of mouth and see how they do. If it seems like maybe you started trening, you know, not that long go and you're probably doing more than I would expect you to need at this point in your trening. Maybe I'll trim off some back offsets or something like that. IMight adjust the volume, but you should never feel that destroyed from your trening. It's not a badge of honor. It doesn't make you better than anybody else. And it is probably not the best way to go about your trening if you want to tren consistently and kind of build momentum and build progress over time. I really, IMean, even back then that time that I was alluding to, I still was not like put out for two days. I just felt, you know, more fatigued than usual. So I don't know that I've ever felt functionally useless for a day or two after a trening session. And even really get particularly sore at all anymore. Yeah, let's not really knew exercise or something. Yeah, with new exercises, that's kind of expected. But to Jordan, Jordan was making the point during the last lecture that we're not aiming to continually overload people and make stuff harder and an effort to force adaptations to happen. Rather, if the trening is set up appropriately, you will adapt and be able to demonstrate that by increasing your loads in subsequent sessions. So earlier this past week, I had one of the best, I've actually, this last week was one of the best trening weeks I had. And on my main deadlift day this past week, I pulled heavier than I have in a while. So I pulled like 60 for a double. It was quite easy. A bunch of back off work, a bunch of other movements that day and after I finished, I told Tom, I said, you know, if I had to rate like the session RPE of this, there was like a six. Like these were some of the heaviest weights I've lifted in a while. But everything moved fast. I felt really strong. I didn't feel particularly beat up. I could have done way more sets. I could have gone way closer to failure. So that's what I had in me on the day for the programming that was there. I took it, felt strong, felt great. The session, even though it was very heavy, relative to my recent performance, it did not crush me. And I felt fine afterwards. And I felt fine since. So trening should not be destroying you. Would not recommend you go to that point. So some adjustments are in order. Yeah. And I think that if you're regularly feeling that way, just got to change trening. Yeah. Can't eat your way out of that. Can't sleep your way out of that. No. Can't remember where we had of that. Yeah. All right.

=== FILE: How To Get Motivated To Exercise？ [8J0qsTNU1lc].txt ===

All right, number 10. Any tips or techniques you find generally helpful for increasing motivation or discipline and trening? IMean, this is a tough one. It is a tough one, but I think I go back to some of the stuff we talked about during the behavioral change lecture, and then additionally we kept sprinkling in. I think you should enjoy this. I think you should enjoy not only the trening you're doing, but the components of that, but the actual process, so your goal-oriented trening. So I think if somebody is like really having a hard time sticking to it, I'd wonder like, do you like what you're doing? Is this enjoyable for you? And if it is, great. So what's holding you back? Because there are some things that come up that people generally respond to in a way where they might need some additional counseling. So for instance, if somebody misses day one of the workout, I've seen it a lot of times where people will just not work out the rest of the week. They're like, IMissed my first day, this week's off. I'm just going to repeat this week next week. They think it's like all they're not in for nominal. And it's like, nope, don't do that. Or like, no, but if I don't work out today, then tomorrow's my scheduled rest day, then I'll have to work out tomorrow. And then have to work out the back to back and that's like bad because I need to perform optimally on all these days. And it's like, no, just put all the workouts together. We have like a literally a litany of different questions on our form that's like, hey, I'm leaving town for the week on Thursday, on Friday. And I have four workouts to do this week, what new? And it's like workout Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, going your vacation. And I don't say that like to be dismissive, right? But it's like the actual acute performance during your workout doesn't really matter as much as you get into the total Trening. So that's just one common thing that I see all the time and people are struggling for time resources in order to tren. And I think working around that can help people stay adherent to the trening program provided they like what they're doing. But if someone hates what they're doing, right, or is fearful of what they're doing, that's problematic. The third thing that I find really important is the social aspect here. So if people are doing this by themselves, so like they have a home gym and they're the only one in their house that uses the home gym, or if none of their family members work out, even immediate or extended, none of their friends work out, they're just effectively leaving their social circle. They're saying, I'm going to leave my family, I got to leave all my friends and I go to the gym where I don't know that many people, that's a hard sell for a lot of people. And so I think that to the degree, you can leverage social support, you can make things more effective, a second economical from a time perspective, and then make it enjoyable. Those are my big sort of things that you can practically apply to the programming and the social support network to get people to adhere to trening. But as far as actually finding motivation in people, that's stuff. You got to give them the old gipper talk. Why, what do you want to do with this? What do you want to get out of this? Where do you want to be in three months, six months, 12 months? How do your actions on a daily basis lead you closer to or further away from that particular goal? Something. Yeah, yeah, I think I don't love the, I don't love centering this discussion around the idea of discipline at all. We've talked in some of our previous Q&As and on podcasts and stuff like that that, you know, in the past decade, we can count how many workouts we've missed on one hand or less. Even last week, when I was laid up with the flu, I still went out and did my deadlift day on Tuesday. And like I said, I almost passed out trying to pull 405 and people might say, you're an idiot, you're crazy for trying to go do that. And I was like, well, I think back to that day, right? I'm having like coughing and chills and sweat on the couch and I feel like shit. Why did I go out to the gym and try to do that? Was it because I'm just like a total badass and more disciplined than anyone else on earth? No, it's because I actually enjoyed trening. And I got up that day and I was like, well, today would normally be a trening day and I liked trening. So it would make me feel better. Maybe if I went out and tried to do something. Now, I probably tried to pull more than I was ready for on that day, right? But I did it because I actually enjoy trening. If I loathed trening, if I hated trening and I felt that sick, that's like double barrier to try to go out and do that thing, right? So I look back to why have we not missed a trening session in the past decade, basically, or a couple, right? Because we actually enjoy trening. And to the extent that maybe we've we both definitely like skipped out on certain like, say, social engagements or something, because we, because trening was more important to us, it's because we enjoy doing that, right? So the enjoyment piece, I think, is under-emphasized underrated. It's not that, you know, we're just like better than you because we can do this thing that we hate, right? Even when we don't want to, hey, we actually enjoy doing this thing. So I think finding that like why you're doing this and trying to play that up is a bigger piece there than just saying, you're not disciplined enough to do this, right? You're a bad person because you didn't do this session because you're not disciplined enough. I don't think that that's a good way to view human behavior really in general. Also Rick Ross helps. Always. Instant PR. Instant PR, snap, yes.

=== FILE: How a Supplement Sent a Soldier to the Hospital- A Medical Mystery [ljJMsO2Ah3g].txt ===

 autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo enough to function. When he finally walks into a civilian urgent care, the nurse takes his blood pressure. It's 180 over 110. Way too high. Then they run a quick chemistry panel and they find out his creatinine is 3.5. His kidneys are shutting down, basically. This 23-year-old soldier is rushed to a hospital. The doctors are looking for infections, they're looking for rare diseases from the river, and they're looking for kidney stones. But the answer wasn't in the water. It was in a conversation he had with the guy at the gym about six months ago. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning and strength and conditioning in modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. And today I'm joined, as always, by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now, Austin, we're ending the year with something a little different. We've been hitting the science hard on peptides, injuries, and sarcopenia. But today I'm bringing you a mystery case. I've got the history and physical, I've got the labs, I've got the imaging, and I have a patient who on paper should have been at the peak of his health. And you're going to be the attending on this one. So I'm going to give you the data as it arrived at the bedside, and we're going to see if you can figure out why a healthy young soldier's body started failing. Now, my prediction, as I said to you off air, I think you're probably going to get this one. I have confidence. Also, I feel like this is something you may have seen before. So the question to you is, are you ready? As ready as I think I'm going to be. Let's start. All right. He says nervously. Okay, well, let's set the stage. Our patient arrives at the hospital. He is a well-appearing soldier, 23 years of age. And again, he looks well, which is the first weird thing, because you'd expect someone who's been throwing up for two weeks to look sick, but he doesn't. In fact, his biggest complaint is persistent, severe jaw pain. Now he tells you that two weeks ago, he went swimming in a freshwater river. Shortly after that, the GI issues started. So he had nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. And then about a week ago, he started having severe, unrelenting jaw pain, which is what prompted him to seek care. He's actually been using about eight tabs of aspirin and ibuprofen, 400 milligrams a time for about one week before the presentation, but he continues to have pain. Now he previously had gone to urgent care center earlier this day because he was unable to keep anything down and his jaw pain went to 10 out of 10. Then they found that he had a creatinine of 3.5 and his systolic blood pressure was in the 180s. So they subsequently turfed him to your hospital. Now, naturally, the first thought in the ER was that he was hypovolemic. They thought he was dehydrated from acute colitis or some other waterborne pathogen he picked up in the river. But here's the first data point that kind of breaks that theory. He tells you he's been drinking six liters of water per day and he's peeing a lot of clear urine, which was confirmed in the emergency department. So they called you. So, Austin, we have this young soldier with what looks like acute renal failure and massive hypertension. Now, the initial history points to a riverborne infection or dehydration, but he's apparently euvolemic and producing tons of dilute urine. So when you see a young, fit guy with a blood pressure of 180 over 110 and his kidneys are apparently tanking, all in the context of severe jaw pain, how do you go about building your differential? Are you looking at the river or is your mind going somewhere else? Yeah, this is super interesting. I was not expecting actually most of what you laid out there. There's a lot of different directions you could go because you're right that the initial exposure, the vomiting for two weeks after going swimming, that does suggest some sort of pathogen type exposure. But somebody who is severely dehydrated from vomiting for two weeks generally isn't going to be coming in with a blood pressure in the 180s. So for me, that was an immediate kind of contrary data point. The creatinine of 3.5 could be explained by all of the NSAIDs that he's using, the aspirin and the ibuprofen and things like that. But I'm not going to lock in 100% on that because there are also infectious things that can be acquired that can lead to kidney failure, depending on what part of the world you're in. Certain tropical exotic infections, things like leptospirosis and other things can cause a GI syndrome, waterborne exposure, things like that, and lead to kidney failure among other things. So it is a little bit challenging how to focus on the vomiting because so many things can lead to vomiting. The kidney failure could be related to the NSAIDs, but could be related to something else. So I'm going to actually continue to interrogate that a little bit. The blood pressure is actually maybe surprising to you, the least of my concerns right now. I tend to get much more concerned when people's blood pressure is way too low or if it is so high that it is the direct cause of the patient's problems. So for example, if somebody has such high blood pressure that it's contributing to an aortic dissection or something like that, this level of blood, I mean, sometimes even when patients are actively retching against a blood pressure cuff, it can make the blood pressure readings falsely high. ER blood pressure readings are, you know, not going to be the most accurate for just, you know, what somebody's resting blood pressure is outside of these emergency situations. So I'm actually putting the blood pressure for now to the side. I'm tracking the creatinine, but not putting a massive amount of focus on it. I think I know where that's coming from. The vomiting is too nonspecific for me to really have a clear sense of what to make of it because it can come from so many different things. And so that leaves me with the jaw pain, which seems to be super localizing. And it's almost the most severe symptom that the person is reporting. And so I'm just going to listen to what he's telling me. And then like, he's telling me I have 10 out of 10 jaw pain. This is the thing that made me go to urgent care today. Not the fact that I've been vomiting for a few weeks. He certainly doesn't feel his creatinine. He doesn't feel his blood pressure, but the more localizing of a symptom that I have, the more specificity it might give me. And so I definitely want to interrogate this jaw pain a little bit further that in most situations is going to involve some degree of imaging. But if I had to, you know, start to generate some sort of hypothesis about what could be going on there, Mike, I'm breaking it down into, could it be something inflammatory, for example, could there be some kind of infection or inflammatory focus in that area, some kind of an abscess in the, you know, head, neck, jaw, mouth type area? Is there a fracture for some odd reason that I would have to then explain other sorts of things like that? So that's kind of how I'm, I say, distributing my attention at the moment, first on the jaw, and then secondarily on the other things. The last thing I guess I'll comment on is, it is very odd that he reports to be drinking six liters of water per day. That is a lot. And then putting out a lot of dilute urine. My first question would be like, how confident am I in that history that he is in fact drinking six liters a day? Do I believe that? I would then do some basic blood and urine testing to get a sense. But that raises concerns about could this patient have diabetes? And there are different types of diabetes. There's diabetes mellitus, which is what most people know about the diabetes related to blood sugar problems that can lead to peeing a lot, and then you drink a lot as a result. And then there's also something called diabetes insipidus that I won't get into details of right now, but we'll bring it back if it becomes relevant, where people are just spontaneously peeing out too much dilute urine and then having to drink to keep up with it. So that's also something I'm tracking, but I'm really focused on the jaw right now, because I'm thinking that given the severity and how focal that is there, that that might give me the best lead point to make some progress in the case. All right. Well, the team runs the workup. They do the urinalysis, a urine microscopy, infectious titers, an autoimmune panel. They do imaging of the jaw. They repeat his blood chemistry. They even do a renal ultrasound to look for obstruction or renal artery stenosis because of the blood pressure. Almost everything comes back normal. He's got no casts, no crystals, no dysmorphic cells in the urine. His renal artery ultrasound is clean. His aldosterone to renin ratio is normal, which rules out most of the obvious secondary causes for his hypertension. But his creatinine is still elevated at 3.5. Now, again, the patient's focus is on his jaw. It's not on his creatinine. It's not on his nausea. He's in agony. His main complaint is his jaw. And it's so bad that he's no longer controlled with ibuprofen or what they were giving him in the ED. He requests opioids just to sit still. And here's where the case gets a little stranger. He's got, again, no fracture seen on imaging of the jaw. And he's got no evidence of infection, no evidence of any other like autoimmune disease or something like that. His kidneys look structurally normal in ultrasound. But in his morning labs, after he was admitted, his calcium started to climb. They actually did a trial of fluid restriction, but his calcium was 13.7 in the morning. Now, Austin, why does this young soldier have a calcium of nearly 14? And how in the world could this tie back to his severe opioid requiring jaw pain? What's your next move for this patient? And you have done a great job finding a case that captures many aspects of my interest here. I feel like, yeah, so hypercalcemia, this high blood calcium level, you know, among all comers, my first question when I see that type of level is just a how high is it? Sometimes I'll see very mildly elevated levels and that I can be seen as something as simple as some dehydration, which was, of course, an initial concern based on this patient's reported history of vomiting, but proved to not be the case upon further evaluation. And so then basically the higher the calcium goes, the more it kind of changes the differential diagnosis or how we tend to think about things. But fundamentally, I want to get a sense of is there a problem with this patient's parathyroid hormone, which is a hormone that regulates our blood calcium levels, meaning is he inappropriately producing too much parathyroid hormone and that's making his calcium levels go up? Or is this calcium high despite having normal parathyroid kind of function? And so getting a PTH level is the next step here to break that down. My guess is that his PTH level is going to be appropriately suppressed. It's not going to be very high in this situation. I'm sure you'll let me know here in a little bit. And so then other causes, if it is in fact what we'll call PTH independent, meaning his calcium is high for some other reason, then other questions would start to arise. For example, does this patient have vitamin D problems like vitamin D toxicity? Is he taking too much vitamin D supplementation or does he have medical conditions that can lead to excessive activation of vitamin D? There's a whole bunch of those that, again, I could nerd out on, but I will only bring up if they become relevant in a little bit. And then lastly, is he taking some form of calcium supplementation? So for example, was this patient taking a whole bunch of NSAIDs, gave himself a stomach ulcer and had bad esophagitis and reflux, and then started taking boatloads of Tums to try to relieve those types of symptoms. And Tums are calcium carbonate, and you can certainly make yourself hypercalcemic from that. And then what happens when you have high blood calcium levels is something called, it can lead to essentially diabetes insipidus and what's called nephrocalcinosis. So you can end up peeing out tons and tons and tons of dilute urine because the high calcium impairs your kidney's ability to concentrate urine. And so then he has to drink a bunch of water to keep up. So that's one way that I could kind of like craft a narrative that fits how we ended up in this situation with the kidney failure, commonly seen in hypercalcemia, the polyuria, commonly seen in hypercalcemia. The jaw pain, though, is still what's interesting to me and how I tie that in. Because, you know, a lot of times when people have high blood calcium levels related to some problem of the bones, like bony disease, then you can end up with things like pathologic fractures and things like that. But you already told me there was no fracture on his imaging. You didn't really tell me what was seen, if there was anything seen on the imaging of his jaw. So I remain a little bit intrigued by that. But yeah, so to summarize now, this high blood calcium level explains certain aspects, his kidney situation, his bland urine testing, the peeing a lot, the drinking a lot. I'm still unsure of what to make of the of the jaw pain. And so next steps will be checking PTH status, checking vitamin D status, asking him about, hey, have you been taking a bunch of calcium supplementation of any kind, Tums, things like that, or other calcium containing substances. There are also some other drugs that can cause this. But again, I'll feel like I think like vitamin A and a few other things that I'll leave aside for now. But so yeah, tell me tell me what we got next. All right. Yeah. So just to review for the listeners, we've got this young soldier with apparently some acute kidney injury going on. He's got some hypertension, and he's got a high calcium level. We've looked at the obvious stuff. Again, the renal ultrasound is clean. The infectious workup is all negative. And so yeah, doesn't look like he picked up anything in the river. But then they check his parathyroid hormone, as you discussed. Now, again, when calcium is high, these glands usually should be turned off, appropriately suppressed is the term you use. And so in this patient, his PTH level was just five, which is appropriately suppressed. So the glands are doing exactly what they were supposed to do. They're shutting down because they detected that there was already way too much calcium in the blood. So this kind of rules out, hey, maybe there's something growing on that gland that causes it to go rogue and pump out too much hormone and increase calcium through that mechanism. So then they ordered a chest X-ray. They wanted to look at the lungs and the lymph nodes to see if there was any enlarged nodes, which we call hyalur adenopathy, which might have pointed towards something like sarcoidosis. If you've ever watched House, they said lupus or sarcoidosis always comes up. And that can ramp up vitamin D levels. But the X-ray was completely clear. No masses, no swelling. Vitamin D levels are currently pending. So at this point in the story, the doctors were actually considering performing a kidney biopsy, which basically involves taking a needle, take small pieces of the kidney for testing because the patient's high blood pressure and kidney issues just weren't making sense. But before they went through that procedure, they actually sent a medical student back into the room to do a medical reconciliation, which is basically to say, hey, look, what meds are you taking? What supplements are you taking? It's also another opportunity to do like a little interview with the patient. Now, the patient had already told the doctors he wasn't taking any steroids or gym supplements. However, the student changed the framing of the question. Instead of just asking about drugs or supplements, he asked if they were taking anything natural or healthy over the counter. This is a huge distinction for many people. I'm sure you run into this, even especially as a med student, you get kind of embarrassed. You're like, oh, I didn't ask about that directly. It's like they left out history. So, yeah, many patients don't view things labeled natural as medicine, so they often don't mention it. Now, the soldier says, look, I'm just bulking right now. I'm taking a multivitamin. I'm taking vitamin B12. And this one specific supplement I heard about in the gym, I've been taking it every morning for six months because I was told it's the only way to maximize natural testosterone production. So, Austin, this is your final clue. The patient is taking an over-the-counter supplement in high doses because of a gym myth he heard about testosterone. Now, combined with a suppressed PTH, a sky-high calcium level, and agonizing jaw pain, what's your final diagnosis for this soldier? Yeah, this is interesting. And so, going back to some of the things that were mentioned, yeah, I mean, sarcoidosis is an example of one of those conditions that I mentioned called granulomatous diseases that can lead to over-activation of vitamin D. And so, if, you know, his vitamin D levels had been sky-high depending on what type, 25-hydroxy, 125-hydroxy, vitamin D, et cetera, that can help us start to make some progress on those types of conditions like sarcoidosis or certain lymphomas, certain infections that can lead to that kind of thing. The fact that they were considering kidney biopsy is a little bit interesting to me. I don't think I would have been in that space mainly because you told me that his urinalysis was totally benign. And so, it did not really point to a primary kidney disease as the cause here. So, I would not have been in that space. I would have, as I mentioned in the last kind of step, doing exactly what was done here, going back and talking and grilling him about everything that he was potentially taking. Now, if I think through, you know, what types of drugs, supplements, things like that, that can lead to increases in blood calcium level, there are a handful of commonly used drugs that we know that can lead to hypercalcemia. I mentioned a few of them, things like certain types of blood pressure medicines like thiazides. I think lithium can play a role. Again, vitamin A, I think, has some relationship there. There are a few others. I would be actually probably doing some searching of my own, looking through what sorts of supplements do people take regularly to boost testosterone that can contribute to that. I think, you know, you hear so many things in the fitness guru and like testosterone optimization space that people take. I've heard of things like, of course, zinc. I've heard of people, of course, taking vitamin D to increase their testosterone. I've heard of people using like boron to increase their vitamin D levels. I've heard of, you know, many other ones. And so narrowing that exactly down and tying that into the jaw pain, this is actually a point where I would be having a little bit of trouble predicting it outside of doing some searching or just like, obviously, the patient telling me what he's taking and then like cross-referencing that on the internet with potential contributions to hypercalcemia like this. Okay. Well, I'm going to give you one final clue. I know I said that was the final clue, but this is the actual final clue, final, final clue, the final boss. So the lab finally calls the floor. They had to dilute the sample multiple times because the levels were off the charts. The serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level is unquantifiable, listed as greater than 200 nanograms per milliliter. Does that help you with your diagnosis? Yeah, dude's taking boatloads of vitamin D. In fact, the diagnosis is severe hypervitaminosis D. A patient reveals that he's been taking at least 10,000 IUs or international units of vitamin D every single day for the last half of a year. Now, he wasn't trying to hurt himself. He was following the advice from a friend at the gym who cited a popular but often misunderstood study suggesting that vitamin D supplementation could skyrocket testosterone levels. My gosh, this is so dumb. The team immediately started him on aggressive fluid resuscitation. His calcium peaked at 13.7, but slowly began to drift down as they flushed out his system. He was discharged for outpatient monitoring and he agreed to stop taking supplemental vitamin D. They never actually did measure his testosterone levels just to see like... Yeah, I wouldn't have measured his testosterone level either in the hospital setting. This is both not smart, so would not advise people. I'd be curious if they measured a phosphate level. Did you have a phosphate level in the labs that you were able to report? Because that would be also like... I would have gotten this actually far earlier if you had given me that both his calcium and his phosphate levels were high because that can be a giveaway. And then because PTH tends to make phosphate go down and vitamin D tends to make it go up. So that would have been apparent. Now, the scary thing is because vitamin D is one of these fat-soluble vitamins, it can accumulate quite a bit. And so this is something that can last a long time before it gets better. Sometimes these patients have to get put on glucocorticoids like prednisone actually to try to reduce the associated risk of hypercalcemia from vitamin D toxicity. And that can last for months after people have this kind of thing. And so if this guy was hoping to take a bunch of vitamin D to make his testosterone go up so that he could train in the gym and get jacked, and instead gave himself vitamin D toxicity leading to hypercalcemia, and if he, let's say, required prednisone, really shot himself in the foot there because he's going to end up on a catabolic steroid until he can get through this period and obviously get his calcium levels down and his kidney function back to normal. So pretty unfortunate and I think a good cautionary tale against kind of taking excess vitamin D very casually like this. Yeah, pretty interesting course afterwards also. So a month later, his creatinine level was still 2.09, which is high. The kidneys were still struggling. And in this case, it seems like the kidneys were essentially caught in a perfect storm. Now, the primary issue was a massive overload of vitamin D, which pushed blood calcium levels into a dangerous range. Now, the high calcium is already kind of hard on the kidneys, but the situation was made worse by the use of aspirin and the NSAIDs. These medications further restricted blood flow to the kidney and can cause direct damage to the filtering tubes, a condition we call acute tubular necrosis. So yeah, as he mentioned, it's a powerful reminder that even common supplements that are over the counter can become toxic when the underlying physiology is pushed out of balance. Yeah, 100%. It's not super clear to me that he actually had a ton of direct kidney injury related to the NSAIDs if all of his urine testing was completely bland, benign. But as I said, the nephrocalcinosis that you can end up with from chronic exposure to high blood calcium levels can be problematic like this. And so he had a bunch of different potential mechanisms of kidney injury. And so yeah, hopefully backs off of many of those supplements and takes better advice in the future. But scary case. Yeah, three months later, his creatinine was down to a healthy baseline of one. His calcium had been normalized. Six months later, his vitamin D was still at 80, which is on the high end, showing just how long this fat soluble vitamin stays in the system. But here's the really interesting, at least to me, part of the case. It's also unfortunate. Even after his kidneys recovered, he remained hypertensive. The damage to his vascular system from that period of high calcium appeared to be lasting. So I did some digging, like, how could this happen? It seems like this high calcium level, especially like six months of taking 10,000 IUs of vitamin D per day, it seems like it can act as like a slow moving toxin for the blood vessels. It's like when calcium is that high for that long, it can deposit into the walls of the arteries themselves. calcium phosphate salts actually deposit in the middle layer, the tunica media of the arterial walls, which is known as metastatic calcification, which tends to increase this pulse wave velocity and systemic vascular resistance, which can lead to kind of this structural hypertension, if you want to call it that. Like normally, the arteries are like these high quality rubber hoses. They're flexible and they bounce back with every heartbeat, which helps keep your blood pressure in a healthy range. But because of the period of high calcium, the vessels had effectively been turned into something more like lead pipes. They had lost their stretch. And now because the pipes are more rigid, the heart has to pump much harder to move blood through them, which keeps the blood pressure high. So the kidneys are doing their job again on the hormones are, quote, balanced, but the physical structure of the vascular system has been permanently changed. So no longer treating this temporary imbalance, but he might have to be on some antihypertensives. So Austin, our soldier recovered from his kidney function, but he stayed hypertensive. From a medicine perspective, once this crisis initially is over and he's discharged, what does the cleanup look like for a patient over the next 12 months or so? Yeah, this is interesting. I mean, your hypothesis about the blood pressure, I would call it a hypothesis that's a little bit challenging to prove. Of course, I'd be curious what his blood pressure was like before all this happened. Had he just not seen doctors, maybe he had high blood pressure kind of all along. Having diffuse kind of systemic calcification of your arteries at age 23, even with a few months of this, I'm still not 100% sure is entirely the case. I do see that happen, though I see it much more often, unfortunately, in patients with more either advanced vascular disease in general or patients with bad kidney disease, especially dialysis patients. I've seen a pretty horrible condition called calciflaxis, where they get that calcification of their blood vessels and it leads to enough constriction of blood flow to the skin that they can get ulcers kind of developing all over the place from this calcium phosphate deposition. So that's a maybe for me. I do think that there are a lot of ways that we have to control his blood pressure. And so the strategy for that would be fairly actually routine to get his blood pressure down once you've ruled out secondary causes, which they did a pretty reasonable initial evaluation for that kind of thing. As I mentioned, if his calcium level is persistently very high, there's other medical things that are sometimes done. Like I mentioned, sometimes people get put on glucocorticoids, prednisone, things like that. But really, it's going to be time and letting his body kind of do its job getting off of these things, getting control of his blood pressure, usually with medications or if there's a secondary cause treating it. And then not really, fortunately, a ton else. Twenty three year olds can be pretty robust and resilient even after going through something as dramatic as this. He seems to have mostly recovered based on the trajectory that you told me so far. Yeah. All right. Well, let's talk about this jaw pain for a second, because I was wondering about it. I'm sure you're wondering about the audience, probably wondering why. To me, this is fascinating. So tell me what you think about this potential mechanism. So we know that excess vitamin D doesn't just increase calcium absorption from the gut. It can actually drive some level of bone resorption. We usually think of vitamin D as a good thing, but in extreme amounts, it can cause the body to aggressively pull calcium out of the bones and into the bloodstream. So this could explain the jaw pain, not like a dental problem, but rather the physical sensation of his body stealing calcium from his own skeleton, including his jaw to dump it into the blood. So I looked into this a little bit regarding the jaw specifically. Bone resorption is systemic, but the jaw is a site of very high bone turnover sort of normally. So in cases of extreme bone resorption, which we see in hyperparathyroidism or severe vitamin D toxicity like this patient, people can develop what are called brown tumors or focal areas of bone loss. And so it's possible that this agonizing pain he felt was his own bone structure being chemically like dismantled from the inside out, potentially causing micro fractures that were missed on routine imaging, um, and changes in the local bone marrow environment from the rapid bone turnover. So I went into like a radiology rabbit hole. I'm like, how often does standard like x-rays miss this? And quite frequently, as it's been going on for a long time and is very severe. So it would have been interesting if he got some either advanced imaging or some sort of like radio labeled imaging to suss this out, but I don't know. What do you think about that mechanism? Yeah. So you're right that the jaw seems to be an area of more aggressive turnover. And that's why, for example, when patients are put on certain treatments for osteoporosis like this phosphonates, we often tend to be a little bit cautious, especially if they have dental work, pendank, things like that. There's phenomenon called osteonecrosis of the jaw that can happen in those patients where there's some bone that actually dies in the jaw related to the use of those medicines. So we tend to be pretty cautious around that. I haven't heard of this happening from vitamin D toxicity, but if it is accelerating bone turnover, I find that a plausible mechanism. I also am completely unsurprised that just like routine x-rays of the jaw, especially if these are just like routine ER x-rays, and this is not shade at the ER, but rather that those types of x-rays are done, you know, pretty quickly. Sometimes even like, you know, a lot of ER x-rays are done portable at the bedside and being read looking for major emergencies by emergency radiologists. And so the really detailed nuances, I wouldn't be surprised if those don't always get caught, or if you need some more type bone scan or some sort of like, you know, imaging that looks for kind of cell activity in the area, some sort of nuclear medicine. You know, this is outside getting outside my area of expertise. And in practice, I frequently just get on the phone with a radiologist and I'm like, hey, here's what I'm thinking. Here's what I'm worried about. What's the best scan for me to, you know, to look for this particular issue? And that's what I would be, have been doing in this situation to try to figure it out if the plain x-rays were unrevealing, which is, again, not at all surprising to me. So I find that to be plausible, interesting. We know the jaw is a hotbed of bone activity and relates to a lot of these conditions. Yeah. All right. Well, let's talk about the, a little bit of the bro science that ultimately doomed our patient here. One study that gets a lot of airtime, it's been cited a bunch, is this PILS study from 2011. I've seen it actually cited a few times online in the biohacker and sort of natural testosterone optimization circles. It suggested a link between vitamin D supplementation and testosterone. Now, in the study, a group taking about 3,300 IUs of vitamin D per day for a year increased their testosterone levels from an average of 300 nanograms per deciliter to 380 nanograms per deciliter, whereas those taking a placebo didn't see any changes. So you look at that and you're like, that's a bump. I want a bump. More testosterone, more gains. There are a few problems with the study. So one, it was not actually designed to test testosterone levels. It was actually a secondary post hoc analysis of a weight loss study. The researchers didn't recruit men to see a vitamin D built muscle or increased testosterone. They just looked back at a small group of 54 dudes who happened to have their testosterone levels measured. Now, in the world of science, when you dig through enough data after a study is already over, you can typically find a correlation with something by sheer coincidence if you look at enough variables. No shade intended, but this is a classic case of data mining being presented as a primary discovery. This happens all the time, unfortunately. The second problem with the study, again, we're talking about 54 people. In a study that small, one or two outliers can complete.  autemplemplemplaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguagu lower testosterone levels compared to the new tests we use, which are LCMS. And then finally, even if we take the study at face value, the increase they found is almost certainly not clinically significant. This slight bump in numbers, which are, they're well within the test error bars. And the study did not measure like muscle protein synthesis. It didn't measure one rep max strength or muscular hypertrophy, body composition, or even symptoms of testosterone deficiency. So like a slightly higher number on a lab report to me doesn't matter if it doesn't actually change the person's life. We see this all the time. People will take this tiny shift in a surrogate marker, and then especially with a supplement, and they'll just run with it, market it to the hills. Now, three recent meta-analyses essentially closed the door on this. They looked at the totality of the evidence and found that vitamin D is pretty much a total wash for testosterone levels, regardless if someone has low or normal testosterone levels or low or normal vitamin D levels. So the analogy I think about here is like, if you take vitamin D to boost testosterone, it's kind of like trying to fix a car that won't start by adding more gas to the tank. If the engine is the problem, it doesn't matter if your gas tank was bone dry or already half full, adding more fuel is not going to make the car run. You can keep pumping more and more gas, that's the vitamin D, but you're not fixing the motor. That's the source of the testosterone deficiency. You're just creating potentially a massive spill that could become a fire hazard, or in our patient's case, metastatic calcium deposition. So Austin, we have this massive industry built on the idea that more is better and that vitamins are typically benign. Walk us through why vitamin D is different from water-soluble vitamins like vitamin C or vitamin B12, and why do you think that natural testosterone marketing, that that machine clings to stuff like this? Yeah, lots of reasons. It's certainly a hot topic these days, even though we've been talking about testosterone for many, many years at this point. So to the first question, the concept of fat-soluble vitamins is, you know, it has to do with the type of solution that they dissolve best into, whether it's fat or our water-based bloodstream. And water-soluble vitamins tend to last for a shorter period of time in the body and can get readily excreted in the urine as a water-based kind of medium. The fat-soluble vitamins tend to get sequestered in our adipose, in our body fat, and they can sit there for a long time. They're not easily excreted in the urine because we are excreted water and not kind of a fatty, we don't pee out oil as a way to excrete that. That would be a problem. And so the trade-offs there are that, you know, if somebody is completely deficient in, say their diet is completely deficient in water-soluble vitamins, they are more readily going to become deficient in that on a shorter timeframe because the intake and output happens on a shorter basis. Whereas the fat-soluble vitamins that tend to can accumulate and get sequestered, you're going to be a little bit more resistant to developing, you know, deficiencies if you have some stores kind of built up in your body fat. The trade-off there is that if you get toxic, if you have too much of it, then it can kind of accumulate and you can have prolonged toxicity instead of if somebody overdoses on thiamine, I'm not concerned at all. In fact, I probably intentionally overdose people on thiamine in the hospital all the time because the risks of being deficient in thiamine are so great, whereas the risks of me giving them way too much are essentially zero. And so I err on the side of treating people very aggressively with thiamine when they're at risk for deficiency if they have, you know, alcohol use issues, things like that. But I don't at all do that with vitamin D. There's no situation where I'm aggressively giving somebody vitamins A or D or E or K being the predominant kind of fat-soluble vitamins outside of very, very, very rare types of situations. And so that's the fundamental difference and one that played out in this patient's case. I totally get, you know, when people perceive a problem or if in fact they do have a problem like testosterone deficiency trying to seek out what basic measures, be it lifestyle, quote-unquote natural or otherwise can I do to try to improve this. And I don't even fault people who might say, look, I understand what you're saying that 80, you know, nanograms is not a clinically significant difference, but maybe if I do this to get 80 and I stack it with sleeping better and that gets me 50 and I lose a little bit of weight and that gets me 100, maybe that takes me from 300 to 500 or 600. And, you know, the accumulating effect of multiple small interventions or something like that. I'm like, okay. I mean, it sounds like we're pursuing a generally, we're aiming to pursue a generally healthy lifestyle pattern, trying to, you know, tinker with a lot of small variables and hoping that that adds up to, you know, a generalized improved downstream state of health. I think that that's not a crazy idea, but of course this is also being done like as seen in this case without a good understanding of what are the potential downsides of things like dosage and monitoring and how I'm actually going about this process, right? And so to those meta-analyses, I'm not surprised that it ended up coming out in the wash. There's also some questions of how much does it matter kind of a how you got there type picture, right? So if somebody had a vitamin D level of zero, I wouldn't be surprised if maybe having some vitamin D replacement leads to improvements in various other things. But of course, at the same time, my question is like, what led to their vitamin D level being zero? Are they just frankly, completely malnourished for some reason? Do they have some undiagnosed, you know, GI pancreatic intestinal disease that leads them to be unable to absorb certain nutrients altogether? And it's not as simple as just, oh, just give them the vitamin D and then it'll fix their testosterone. But maybe a whole bunch of systems can be made to function better if we identify the underlying issue here, right? And the same if somebody's testosterone level is, you know, zero, that's actually the lowest I've ever seen is a testosterone level. Yeah. Okay. It's not going to be like, take vitamin D and get your level from zero to 80. And it's like, why did it get there? So that's part of why when we talk about testosterone deficiency, we talk a lot about the importance of accurate diagnosis, a proper medical assessment to think through what sorts of things could be contributing, what sort of levers can we pull and how hard should we pull those things? Is there a scenario where I might tell somebody, yeah, we should probably put you on some vitamin D? Yeah, I can see that happening, but that is not really very common for me to say, oh, your testosterone is like mildly low. Let's just get you on some vitamin D and it should fix your testosterone levels. This is more like severe deficiency to help address a lot of issues while I try to get to the bottom of like, why did any of this happen? Right? So it's really interesting hearing myself say this because I recognize how often out there there is this view of, yeah, doctors just treat symptoms. They don't look for quote unquote root causes. Meanwhile, here I am, you know, saying, hey, I'm curious why we ended up in this state of testosterone deficiency, of severe vitamin D deficiency, et cetera. And I'd rather figure that out and address those things. Whereas a lot of folks in this kind of biohacker optimization space, they're like not really terribly curious about how those things happen, but they rather just like take the zinc and the boron and the vitamin D and, and the, and the, you know, the cert, the SARMs or whatever, whatever that kind of stuff to make the numbers look prettier. It's almost like a total inversion of that same perspective when applied in other contexts. Yeah. Yeah, no, that's a, that's a good summary. And we know that like lifestyle and general health status play a significant role in both vitamin D levels and testosterone levels. So it's no surprise to me that there's a correlation between the two being low. For example, an individual with excess body fat, not sleeping well, maybe their dietary pattern is, is not as good as we want it to be. It's no surprise to me that these things trend together and that if you improve somebody's health, that both things will trend back the other way. The real question that we're getting at here is does independent of all of that, adding a vitamin D supplement actually help? I know it'll make the number, the vitamin D number look better, but I have a low pretest probability that, that doing it will independently raise testosterone levels unless other stuff changes. Totally. And yeah, and, and certainly like to what we would deem a clinically significant degree, it's not taking, it's very unlikely absent a whole bunch of other lifestyle changes and things like that to say, oh, it's going to take your level from 200 to 500. Like I would deem that to be, yeah, that's legit. That's clinically significant. But you know, the idea that I'm going to start taking a thousand IU or 5,000 IU or 10,000 IU, please don't take a lot more than that on a daily basis. Or even up to 10,000 IU a day is generally not a great idea for, for a lot of people. But, but that alone, absent any other changes is going to lead to that level of, you know, change in, in real life is, is very, very unlikely. Yeah. All right. Well, let's wrap this case up. I want to pivot to what this means for a person listening to this, who's also currently looking at a bottle of vitamin D on their kitchen counter. We've seen the extreme on one side, this young soldier, uh, with a potential kidney failure and some hypertension, but the subclinical version, uh, of this happens more often than people realize. So here are my takeaways from this. One is the testosterone myth, which I think we kind of beat into submission. Um, the engine behind this entire case was the belief that vitamin D is like a pro hormone for testosterone. Um, as we mentioned, multiple recent meta-analyses have shown that vitamin D supplementation has no significant effect on testosterone levels in men, regardless of their initial testosterone or vitamin D levels, whether you're vitamin D deficient or not taking 10,000 IUs a day, isn't going to turn you into a pro bodybuilder. Mostly it's going to turn your blood into calcium soup. Uh, the second pearl here is this is, uh, there's some dosing confusion that's happening in the public. One of the most dangerous things to me, uh, that's happened in the supplement aisle is the labeling for vitamin D. So in 2020, the FDA began requiring manufacturers to list vitamin D in both micrograms, um, and international units. And so people are often conflating. Oh gosh. So usually it's like 10, 25 or 50 Mike pills is pretty common dose breakdown. Sometimes not too, too often that I see much higher than that, but if somebody is taking 50 Mike pills and then taking enough to get 5,000 a day, like that would be, yeah, you get overdose pretty quick on something like that. Yeah. The math on this is one microgram equals 40 I use. Uh, so if a patient sees a bottle, it says 125 micrograms or whatever, and they think it's a small number, they may not realize that they're actually taking 5,000 I use per serving. So if they double up because they feel tired or they, they've read something online or social media influencer says something, suddenly they're taking 10,000 I use a day, which can lead to some toxicity. Now, Austin, as a, as a physician seeing patients in the hospital, how often are you seeing them who, uh, when they come in there, they're technically overdosing on a medication simply because they either are misunderstanding the directions or they're taking a supplement, uh, incorrectly cause they, the, the label is confusing. Yeah. Unfortunately it happens super often. I think, you know, there's, there's, this is an era of what we'll call polypharmacy. A lot of people are on a lot of medicines and the, you know, statistically, as soon as you're over like three medicines, then your odds of having drug, drug interactions goes way up and the complexity of dosing ends up getting, you know, uh, to be a bigger problem, especially for people who tend to take more medicines, i.e. as they get older. So if you have a medicine that, Oh, this one's twice a day, this one's three times a day, this one's in the morning before your meals, you know, don't mix these up. And then you, and then people start having side effects and maybe somebody puts them on a medicine to treat that side effect. And then you're even making it more complex and more interactions. This gets messy really fast. And unfortunately, you know, sometimes I'll spend a week working on the wards in the hospital and I'll just take stock of, you know, how many people have I admitted because of a complication of a medicine that they're taking. And it is a unfortunately high proportion of the time where people might come in for dizziness or falls or vomiting or kidney issues or, you know, liver issues or something like that related to something that they're taking, which may have been, you know, most of the time is being prescribed obviously with good intent, not nefarious intent, but sometimes with insufficient caution or insufficient monitoring or insufficient explanation or instruction or things like that. And so, yeah, to some extent it's on us, of course, to some extent it's on the patients too, in terms of their responsibility to, you know, adhere to these things. But oftentimes it comes down to inadequate explanation, education, and like shared plan formation of how are we going to go about this and people can suffer, you know, problems as a result. So especially when there are supplements that are not reported or asked about that also get thrown in the mix, then you can augment that risk as well. So it's a complex world and something that unfortunately I see actually pretty often. Yep. Yep. All right. The next pearl is something we kind of talked about already, the fat soluble trap. So as Dr. Baraki said, unlike vitamin C or B vitamins, where you essentially just pee out the excess, vitamin D is fat soluble. It stores in your adipose tissue and has a long half-life. Now, our soldier in this case had elevated levels six months after he stopped taking the supplement. So if you overdo it, you can't just detox it out in a weekend. You're stuck with those levels for a pretty long, slow recovery. Now, in a recent review by Bouillon, they kind of explained the molecular why behind this soldier's crisis. So when we talk about vitamin D, we're usually just looking at the total number on the lab report. But this particular review highlighted free vitamin D hypothesis. Most of our vitamin D is carried around by a specific transport protein called vitamin D binding protein. You can think of this as like a taxi service for the hormone. As long as vitamin D is on the taxi, in the taxi, it's mostly sequestered and safe. Our patient was taking 10,000 IUs a day for six months. He essentially saturated every single taxi in the bloodstream. So Austin, you can weigh in on this. We spend so much time talking about the left side of the curve, the deficiency side, but our patient was on the right side, you know, excess. When we look at this from a molecular level, why is it so dangerous to overwhelm these binding proteins and have a bunch of free vitamin D just floating around? How does this change how we should interpret a standard vitamin D lab test? Yeah, there's a difference not only in this kind of free bound idea, but also like inactive and active forms of the vitamins. So I mentioned, for example, 25-hydroxyvitamin D as a kind of prototypical quote-unquote storage form that's not physiologically active. And our body has a lot of complex regulated ways by which it activates vitamin D to 125 or calcitriol. And so there are, in fact, situations in practice where I might put somebody on calcitriol straight up on that active form of vitamin D. And somebody who might listen to this, they might say, oh, why don't I just skip the, you know, over-the-counter stuff? I want to go straight to the active form. I want to get the the real deal stuff. And it's like, yeah, that's an even faster route to getting toxic because our body is very good at deciding how much do I need to activate? How much do I need bound free, et cetera, things like that. The reasons why I might use it is if somebody is physiologically unable to activate their vitamin D, like if they have, you know, a complete kidney failure in their dialysis patients and things like that. And so trying to override these homeostatic mechanisms is often a foolish endeavor. And so that's, you're just going to be in a situation where you're at higher risk of toxicity and unintended side effects if you try to override the system, especially in an unmonitored way. So that would be among many reasons why. And in this context, especially because of, as you alluded to, how long acting these things are. Anything that is very, very long acting, there are, you know, even greater concerns about potential toxicity. There are some medicines out there that we use just to deviate a little bit from the vitamin D topic, but medicines that have half-lives of a couple months. And so somebody develops toxicity, for example, from a drug like amiodarone, like that's an antiarrhythmic drug that's used in cardiovascular medicine. I use it, you know, relatively often, but I'm also very, very aware that it's like, if I induce toxicity in this, it is going to take months for this to ends up getting out of this patient system. There are also, to shout out to one of my favorite podcasts, The Poison Lab and toxicology, there have been toxic exposures and poisonings that have happened with essentially derivatives of like rodent killer type things that are often based in coumarins, so like blood thinning type medicines. And so those are so long acting, lasting for months on end, that people are having to take like massive doses of vitamin K to counteract it because they're at elevated bleeding risk for months on end. And at any given time, if they were, you know, unable to keep up with that, that they would essentially bleed out to death. There have been some outbreaks and poisonings reported. So long, those are a few examples of how very long acting things have unique risks that can be exceptionally challenging to manage. I've heard of and seen cases of severe vitamin D toxicity that, as we saw in this case, take months, drugs that I use that take months and other poisonings that also take months and months and months to fully resolve. Yeah, this paper had mentioned that they hypothesize that when you saturate all of these vitamin D transport proteins, the binding proteins, that you can get some spillover of free vitamin D. And it does tend to be somewhat active. It's unbound and it can enter these cells like unregulated. So like the taxis aren't dropping off the vitamin D appropriately. It's just kind of going places. And that potentially triggered this patient's case. It is a hypothesis. We don't know that exactly yet, but I found that interesting. To close this out, I think we should look at the updated clinical practice guidelines from the Endocrine Society, which marked a significant change in how many approach vitamin D. For many years, many in the fitness and medical communities have operated under the assumption that we should be testing everyone and aiming for a specific number for vitamin D levels. Usually like 30 nanograms per milliliter. Now, these new guidelines move us away from that treat to target model and towards a more nuanced evidence-based approach. So here's the breakdown of what is now recommended in these clinical practice guidelines. First, for children and adolescents age 1 to 18, they do recommend vitamin D supplementation, primarily to prevent rickets. There's some evidence also may lower the risk of respiratory tract infections in this population. For pregnant individuals, they also recommend supplementation, potentially lowers the risk of preeclampsia, preterm birth, and neonatal mortality. Third, for adults with high risk like prediabetes or diabetes, the guidelines suggest supplementation in addition to lifestyle modification to reduce the progression of type 2 diabetes. In the trials reviewed, the average dose was around 3,500 international units per day. And then fourth, for adults age 75 and older, they also recommend supplementation of vitamin D just due to the potential mortality benefit identified in a number of meta-analyses. However, for the people that are listening to this podcast, most of them anyway, those between the ages of 19 and 74, they suggest against routine supplementation beyond the current dietary reference intakes, which are about 600 to 800 IUs per day. Perhaps the most significant change, and people may be surprised to know this, they recommend against routine vitamin D testing. They suggest against screening in the general population, including those with obesity or with the various complexions if they are otherwise healthy and do not have established medical indications like hypocalcemia or malabsorption diseases. Importantly, they no longer endorse a universal target of at least 30 nanograms per milliliter for sufficiency. They've acknowledged that the evidence does not support a single threshold for all people and all conditions, and the costs and risks of widespread testing often outweigh the benefits in this population. So Austin, the Endocrine Society just flipped the script on this 30 nanogram per milliliter target. You know, why did the medical community move away from this target? Or are they moving away from this target? Because this is relatively new. I think this paper was published in 2024. And how would you talk to a patient who was worried because their lab result says 28? Yeah, this is a pretty murky area, I would say. I think that, you know, there's been a lot of views around how we set diagnostic cutoffs, how we set lab cutoffs. Are we setting something that correlates with overt deficiency versus what's enough for a large enough swath of the population's efficiency? There's a spectrum of kind of nutrient status. And then there's also the murkiness of like, how much is our blood vitamin D levels actually a marker of nutrient status? Because we've talked before about how they tend to correlate with general health in a lot of ways. As people get unhealthier, in general, they tend to go down. And as health tends to improve, they tend to also improve for varying reasons, not just related to, for example, how much you get in your diet. There's obviously a lot of other factors that can impact vitamin D levels. There's been ideas, for example, that instead of treating to a particular target vitamin D level, that we should maybe treat to the level that leads to the most suppression of parathyroid hormone. That maybe that means that as parathyroid hormone goes up, maybe it's going up because you are relatively vitamin D deficient, leading to not enough calcium in your blood and PTH has to make up the difference. That's another hypothesis. And it's like, I would want to have some sort of prospective cohort or prospective evidence saying that, oh, if I treat people to maximally suppress their PTH, that some real outcome that a patient might care about is better. Maybe they have, you know, some better quality of life or longevity or lower osteoporosis fracture risk, something like that to hang my hat on. Short of that, it's just biochemical evidence that it's like, that could make sense, maybe, you know, and I don't feel super strongly in almost any direction here. Like if somebody wants to do that. Okay, I just don't have a strong sense of confidence that they're going to benefit. But if again, if it's being monitored, then I don't have a great sense that it's going to be harmed. And so then it comes down to like, what are the costs and who's paying? And if they're like, I want to do this, I'm going to pay money, I'm going to monitor them. Okay, like, you know, but but as far as generating guidelines for public health and saying we need insurers to pay for all of this, and it's like, no, we definitely need stronger evidence to say that this is going to be worth the time and the effort and the expense to do if we're going to have, you know, public payers or third party payers actually, you know, addressing this kind of thing. For somebody who gets their levels checked, and it's like, as you said, 28, for example, and they're very concerned, I would elicit those concerns. Tell me what you're most worried about. Also be curious why it was checked in the first place. Was it one of those kind of what we call phishing expeditions of I was just curious, so I got it done to see? Or was there some clear, compelling clinical indication? And then the last part would be, do they have any other medical conditions like the ones where you mentioned, where there's actually maybe evidence that they should be? For example, do they have multiple sclerosis? Yeah, that's a situation where no, no doubt, I would actually have them supplementing, because there's actually a little bit better evidence in the context of MS, compared with many other conditions, if they said, I'm doing it, because I just want to get that extra boost on my testosterone. It's like, well, we got some, some some conversations to have. And probably, you know, I bet you'd probably get better results from just like maybe sleeping an extra 30 minutes a night or something like that, instead of doing something like this. So really, it's eliciting the person's concerns, seeing if there are strong medical reasons to do it. And then if not, then kind of trying to work through and adjust those expectations as needed. Yep. Last part about the new guidelines is that when supplementation is indicated, the guidelines stronger prefer a daily lower dose administration over the intermittent high dose, like bolus therapy, like those taking 50,000 or even 100,000. I use once a week or once a month, these high doses may actually increase the risk of complications in certain populations, whereas daily dosing tends to mimic the natural physiology more closely. So as we close this out, the case of the soldier we discussed today is a reminder of why these guidelines matter and why evidence matters more isn't necessarily better. Now, for most people listening to this, those under the age of 75 probably don't need vitamin D supplement unless there's a specific reason for you to do so. Chasing a specific lab number does not tend to improve health outcomes just in and of itself. As always, it's nuanced. So if you have a specific medical condition, like inflammatory bowel disease, if you've had your GI tract surgerized, like metabolic bariatric surgery, yeah, these guidelines don't really apply to you. You should follow your doctor's recommendations. But for the average lifter, vitamin D supplementation is probably not going to turn you into an elite level power lifter or a pro bodybuilder. Austin, any final thoughts on the soldier with the leaky skeleton before we close the books on this case? No, that was a super interesting case. And I'm glad that we were able to get to a resolution and find a sufficient explanation for the whole thing. You mentioned that for lifters, the vitamin D is not super likely to be a total game changer for them. A slight interesting correlate to that, I guess, is not in the strength training barbell-based population, but rather in the endurance and definitely in the ultra-endurance world. Those folks are at risk for a variety of reasons of what are called like bone stress injuries and things like that, especially as we've talked about before in the context of inadequate calorie intake and low energy availability, especially when people get very thin. And that's actually a situation where I have advised some folks to take some vitamin D. There is some evidence that it can lower the risk of bone stress injuries and things like that coming up in that population. I know that that's a tiny sliver, if any, of our regular listening audience, but that's another situation where it would actually be more reasonable to supplement. Definitely under monitored situations, like you're getting the levels checked over time because that's a common issue in that population. Yeah. And that's usually for people with a relatively high volume of training, not like three hours a week of conditioning. That does not count as high volume. Agreed. All right. So that's it for this medical mystery episode of the Barbell Medicine podcast. If you enjoyed this format, let us know in the comments or on the forum. We've got a lot of new stuff coming your way this year. If you want to support what we do, head to barbellmedicine.com, check out our stuff. Before you go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. For everyone at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. We'll see you on the next episode.

=== FILE: How to Become a GREAT Strength Coach (No Certification Needed) [a8m-YxM-ByA].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the barbell medicine YouTube channel iTunes, Stitcher, wherever you're getting this from. This is the barbell medicine crew. Minus like Vanessa Hassan, Alex, Charlie, Charlie, Derek, Joe, and we're missing some of them. We're missing some people. We're missing some people. We're in Chicago. We're going to talk about coaching. So we wanted to get a broad panel, individuals, and talking about coaching today. This is the disclaimer to start this off. This is not like a well-researched, evidence-based review of marketing data, sales data, coaching, like, this is more to start opinion. Yeah, it's similar to opinion and experience. The med school podcast. Yes. But we're going to include some other perspectives and try to inform you the listener or viewer at home about how we got to where we're at today and then maybe steps for going forward if you want to become a coach because we get that question all the time. This was actually prompted by a question in San Antonio. It was like, how do I let people know that I'm willing to help them with my coaching? It's like, there's a long story there. So let's start out with this. Let's start out with how we all got started. Alan Throll. When did you start coaching? Why did you start coaching and then like, what's been your journey? I started coaching in 2013. So it's real, well, before that I coached high school team. But actually coaching one on one was when I opened the gym. IMean, it was kind of an necessity. I didn't really have much structure. It's opening the gym. I was just like, if someone comes in, I'm going to help him out and take them through a workout. And I started out wanting to do group trening. Sometimes I was a group, but oftentimes it was three people or two people or sometimes one person would show up to the group session. That's not the group. Yep. So it was more personal trening that was, you know, one person group trening. So I was coaching a lot of people like that. They're small and great. Smaller group. My group group. And so that's always started coaching more one on one outside of coaching teams. But so did you, you opened the gym like right when you started coaching? Yep. I opened the gym complete scratch. Like no experience. I didn't have any clients built up. Yes. I was just like, I wanted to. Yeah. So anybody who came into the gym was automatically your client. You weren't like sitting waiting for some gym manager or personal trening manager to like give you a new client seat. It was just with you. You come to my gym. Well, you got to know who I am. I didn't think you said that out loud. How long do you think it took before you felt comfortable actually coaching somebody? Like, do you have any like fear initially like trepidation like, hey, I have no idea what I'm doing. I just opened the gym. People are coming in and they want to meet like, you know, taking them through a workout or like give them a trening plan. Do you confident initially? Talking to people. I was always a bit unsure of what to say. Me talking to people like why should I come near gym? Being a salesperson. I wasn't very good at. But I would say that like telling someone what to do came fairly easy getting out of Marine Corps and just, IMean, honestly, like some people, you know, like, here's a workout tell Jordan to do it and you're like, if you want, you can like, you know what IMean? So like being somewhat assertive was easy. So yeah. That was that probably came from being an altered beforehand. And so there was a little bit of a trensition but it wasn't too bad. Look at looking back now like how long do you think it took for you to become a coach like a good coach in your own mind? Because like you can only tell this retrospectively. You can't like, everyone thinks they're awesome when they start, right? But then like five years later like, yeah, I can't believe I started there. And I would say that once I was finally a coach by Austin was when I was like, hmm, so this is, this is like a good coach is. And so I learned a lot about coaching and you know, about programming the lifts and whatnot. And so all of that definitely after Austin before that, it was just a, you know, like a couple of years of probably not the best advice. But you get any certifications along the way. Like it was your first cert, like how to do it. So you open to Jim, you do that. I open to Jim. And like it is a worst business plan with nothing, no business experience, no credentials, no clients. Maybe I never worked in Jim. Yeah, I guess maybe. I was just really motivated and a bit naive and I just wanted to start a Jim. Yeah. And also we'll link his, hey, I started to Jim video to see you guys getting, that's a cool story. Tom, let's move to you next. When did you start coaching and like how did you, this come about like what were you doing? I taught martial arts and college. And then for Barbell coaching, like 2008, 2009 I started informal coaching people. And then by 2010 people were paying me to coach them. And like how did you get involved in that? Like, like somebody that you were trening martial arts was like, hey, I also want to get strong or was it like you got interested yourself and trening in that. There was no, there was no like carryover from my time coaching martial arts, but just as far as coaching people and like being in front of people and giving instruction, that probably started it. But as far as the Barbell stuff, it was, there was no point at which it was like, aha, it was sort of a gradual thing. The more I was lifting and the more I was looking at stuff, the more people came to me for advice. So people were just coming up to you or like, sir can't tell me, we please teach me. Because I was in a CrossFit gym at the time. And so the idea that people would go and like actually work on strength and a dedicated fashion was kind of a novel thing. At that time and to the yeah, for sure. So that, that attracted attention. Yeah. And then what was your first certification like how did you get started? Starting strength coach. That is the only like, you know, fitness certification I got and I got that in February of 2010. 2010. Yeah. So it wasn't like, I'm going to get all these shirts. I'm going to go to a personal like a global gym coach, a bunch of people. You were just an agenda and people started asking you. I don't know. Miron that squat. IMean, you're a bastard on after all. That's true. Leah. So same, same sort of question to you like, when did you start what the certifications did you get? And how did you get started coaching? I was right. I think I was coaching people informally in about 2014 and by 2015, I was being paid by some people to coach them and I was running small group classes. Okay. Not like very small group classes. No, I was actually running my class. My classes were full. My classes were full. I had a waiting list for my classes. Sure. So I was teaching barbell classes a couple days a week. And then I was coaching some people independently as well. And then how does that start like people just started asking you? Or you were like, go on a day. Let me coach you. Right. So initially, it was people were asking me for help. I'm a pretty open person at the gym. So I was willing to offer insight or advice. And then when I decided that I wanted to learn to become a better coach, I did get a little bit more aggressive about finding people to coach. And I offered to coach people if they were interested. And then the only certification that I got was the starting strength certification. And when I wanted that, I decided that I needed to coach a broader spectrum of lifters. And so I actually asked different types of people if they would be willing to work with me so that I could have more practice. But before that, you never had asked somebody to, yeah, they would just call me to. I come up to make that. Yeah, I see. And then what did you want to become a coach? What's the, why did you get bored or like? Well, it was just it lifting and trening and all of that that goes with it was so important in my own life. And I think that that showed to the people around me. But as it became so important to me, I was really excited about working with other people who cared about the same idea. So I loved it. So I kind of grew up. I played multiple sports, but throughout my swimming career as I went through swimming, I started to coach more and more of the younger age groups behind me to the point where as I got to the upper age groups, I started, you know, I was getting coaching more and more individuals in the pool. And so I had a long, I'd been coaching some form of like, you know, human movement. I guess so to speak or sports performance for for a while, both formally getting paid and in formula prior to that. And so that kind of had been going on for a long time. After I finished swimming and I decided to pick up a barbell to avoid getting super fat from not being a real swimmer anymore. Oh yeah. Like, this is a common thing amongst swimmer. No, no, no, I know that happens. I'm just saying for you personally. Yeah, I was like, I don't want that to happen to me. So let me go find something else to do because swimming by myself and the pool was super boring without a team around me. So I found, you know, I started to pick up a bar and started trening, did all kinds of wacky stuff. IMean, I've talked about this a bit before where I didn't coach anybody for quite a long for probably a couple of years when I was starting out with the bar until I was trening at a college gym when when when I was in med school. And by that point, I was actually getting decently strong and I was squatting, you know, approaching 405 at the time and people, you know, at the time in that gym that was like not common. So I started to get some attention. By the time I was squatting, you know, 405 or more, that sort of get a lot of attention. And that was around the time I think IMet you and you were like, hey, dude, you ever, you know, like coached anybody on this stuff. And I was like, well, I've helped a few, been helping a few people out in the gym and then we decided to pursue it a little bit more formally from there. And kind of, and in parallel to that, my whole academic career had been kind of also kind of like coaching, teaching, stuff like that. And so I think for as far as like why I ended up getting into it, it was kind of something that has always been part of what I do in terms of teaching other people, both in academics, in sport, athletics and something I still do now in medicine too. So it's kind of just how I end up doing. Panic forward. Yeah, as opposed to your little bit. Nobody cares what I did. So there's like move on with this onto the next one. Yeah, moving on. Jordan, did you get any certifications? I'm just calling you. Well, that's the thing that I kind of saw it. IMean, I worked at a company called ViTech Systems, which is now being near you, which is subsidiary Boeing. That's why I did not have to after college. I just got a biology degree. And I was like, I didn't know if Tom, you couldn't do anything with the biology degree. Besides, like, you know, work is a lab like tech or whatever, but you didn't really need a biology degree to do that. So in any event, I was pouring plates all day, just micro, like, to stain. But I wasn't even doing the staining. I was literally just pouring the plates. Like a machine. Something like, yeah, I haven't mechanized it. Yeah. So I was like waiting for my job to be replaced by the machine. And so I did it for three months after I graduated. And I was like, I hate everything about this. Like, I hate everything about this. This is terrible. Like, give me out of here. What do I like? And I gotten really into trening when I was in college. And at the time, like, you think about this, 2005, 2006, 2007, on the internet. There's nothing on the internet about trening. Besides, like, Dave Tate's deep squatter and like, Dave Tate telling you to pour olive oil on your pizza. Like, that's it, right? And so, you know, you can't... IMean, if you want an olive oil, you're back in. So, if it fits your macros, I guess. Yeah. So at the time, it was just harder to learn to stuff, right? And so, but I, you know, I had a really an interest in exercise physiology and exercise physiology. Assessment, I ended up taking all these exercises, graduated with one-to-extredits. And I thought that was interesting. So anyway, I was working in this terrible job and I was like, what do I do now? And I was like, what do I like? What is it even enjoyable? So I was like, I'm gonna become, I'm gonna go tren people with this gym. I was at this gym, trening, and people like members had asked me to like, maybe I would need to do it. It's all dudes. Of course. Like, I thought I was getting a lift or you need to like pick up chicks. It was all dudes. Like, hey, what do you think? Like, you know? Well, yeah, I know. It ends up working out fine. But it's... Don't let this be a lesson. Don't do anything. For... Yeah, to get yourself a date because it's gonna be a good backfire. So in any event, sorry coaching at a commercial gym, and I got like, I think every start that was available at the time, like, I did the CSDS, so I did ACSM HFS, I did CrossFit, I did USAW, I did USA Track of Field, I did the CISSN, I did a RKC. Oh, we call it a note about the RKD. Yeah, I did it. Like, then they wanted you to test and I was like, this is stupid. Like, yeah, I did a lot of this because I thought it would ultimately give me two things, one like Keshay, like, oh, this guy's got all these letters. Letters! Places! Yeah. Oh, that was gonna help like get business. And then the other thing I thought it would actually teach me to know things about trening. And to some extent, like the minimum requirements that you're passing on these tests, like, probably do impart some like knowledge base. But I never felt like, I know what I'm doinGHere. I never felt like that until much later, my coaching career, like, I know how to program, I know how to coach the lifts, I feel comfortable giving people advice, like, on these things. I was so exceared as the wrong word, but just very aware of how tenuous my knowledge base was on these things because I was still questions for myself, like, how was the best way to get your squat to go up? I still had questions about that, you know? And the people were like, why are you gonna do this? I'm like, IMean, you know what I think to me? Yeah, I think. Yeah, but I was very fortunate. IMean, I'm gonna ask you guys about your client sort of situation. So like my first client, I remember that ever trener named Janna, how Janna? She watches all this stuff now. She's cool. But it was so interesting. I was like, I was like, I'm gonna have you squat. Like, the second session, whatever, had a squat under a bar and then bench and deadlift. But nobody else in the gym was doing it at the time, so everyone thought it was crazy. They're like, you're havinGHer squat bench and deadlift. Like, yeah, because that's what I would want to do. I can't like sell somebody trening and then have them do stuff that I would never do. You know, like these weird, like, I'm gonna hop over an exercise box and I'm gonna like stand on a boat, see you ball and then do like this weird burpy to all the things on just to like make you feel tired, which you know, is better than not exercising. But so I just had people do stuff that I would want to do. And like, plan to work out that way, which tend to work out, like, I guess it's good that I like to power lift in. There's something. You don't accept with some selection bias in that they're not, you know, if they see you doing that and then they want to come to you, right? So whereas other people who would have no interest in doing that, they wouldn't have approached you in the first place. Yeah, nobody's like hiring me and they're like, hey, you want to do like some boxing stuff? Like, you were just, you were just, you know, winning based off of the selection bias there. That's the right problem. I'm just saying that's the right problem. That's the right problem. IMean, way to take me down if I put this. All right, so I thought these people actually voted by. Yeah, right, right. It turns out. It turns out. Yeah, it turns out not so much. All right, so Alan, the first time somebody comes to your gym and decides to pay you to coach. What was that? Like that was 2013. I say, what's your stone business? It could have taken too long. Yeah. Like I said, the whole, when I first opened the gym, it was all supposed to be group or class trening. That's the structure. There wasn't, I didn't have like, once the one I went on. But it would just be, you know, one person to show up and then they'd get the kind of the work out of the day, I would run them through it. Yeah. You were doing a crossfit? Is it crossfit gym? No. You would hurt a crossfit. Yeah. Yeah. It was like strong man circuit trening. Okay. Push this slide, carry these farmers. I'm going to let you do it with those. There's no dead. That's heavy. Yeah. Yeah. Very similar to that. And then, I don't remember the, like the first time I said, I'm, I think I'm going to start, you know, charging people separately for one on one coaching. Oh, this is all like involved in, this was like in the gym. Yeah, sign up for the gym. I'll tell you, you throw a workout. You know, basically. But I do remember having a lot of older women that I would tren for one on one clients. I don't know what it was, but there were a lot of them that I'd like to do. Well, but that's, that's not a unique story though. Like people in the personal trening people in a coaching, like I think all of us, he said, hey, what is your bread and butter client? You know, it ends up being like a middle late middle late or just at least a not 20 something female. Like just 30 plus that tends to be a bulk of your market unless you're like in this really strenge like niche. You're like, yeah, all I ever tren are like athletes like it is like, okay, cool. Like I hope you enjoy like not actually making a living from this, you know, for very long because it's hard to. It's very difficult to do that. Also like the reimbursement's not that great unless you're winning championships. And the moment you're not winning championships, you're out and should you ever hurt somebody, like not that you actually hurt, but they became, you know, that's that's not a great way to build a business. Also there's only so many elite level athletes. Yeah, and the odds of them living in your city and like wanting to tren with you. IMean, I guess if you moved to Miami or LA, you know, that might improve your chances, but even then, like. So I don't think that's unique. I'm talking about like retired like, yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's actually your love. It was mornings and afternoons would be with retired women who didn't work. And then in the evening would be the bigger crowd where I would actually get people to show up for a group session. But as far as one I want trening, yeah, it was a lot of some, some older retired men, but it was just, I remember working with a lot of retired women to. Leo, you think most of your clients originally were women. Yes, yes, in fact, my first class, everybody assumed it was women's lifting class. And I did not want it to, I didn't want it to stay this program. It was only where I only trened women. I wanted to be trening people. I like it. Love trening women, but yeah, all my first clients were women. Oh, women. Yep. What do you think it is now? What's the split? Uh, it's actually more men now. Oh, really? Yeah. Awesome. What about yours? I, so you first saw your wife. It was not actually. No, no. I was a runner for a long time. And I was like, you know, I wasn't going to, I wasn't going to influence that until she, you know, developed interest in one. I hadn't had a lift. That was later on. But I guess I was trening in that college gym at the time. And so when I was liftinGHeavy weights from the college dudes, mostly, we're, you know, taking interest in that. So that was what most of my clients basically did. That's a bunch of guys. That first was fine. Yeah. IMean, that's who was there. And initially, you know, I was given them technical advice, or teaching the lifts. And I was not charging for any of that. And then once things, you know, picked up a little bit more and people were wanting some programming guidance and stuff like that, then that's kind of where I started to feel comfortable with charging even a little bit, which was not very much at the time. But that's what I felt ready to do that. Tom, you're, you're at a crossfit gym. Right. And I said, you were paying to go to that crossfit gym. At the time, yes. They were they coaching you? Uh, I, I stopped. No, I actually what happened was I asked to be able to work on my own, which no one else was doing. You wanted to open gym for yourself. Yeah. Yeah. So I got, I got permission to work on my own. But so then you're like, people are coming up to you and they're like, Tom, Tom, Tom, we know you went to the games 2008. No. Well, it's true. In fact, it was, it was 2009. And I started doing this before that. Yeah. Also, so, y'all, y'all, y'all jokes aside. But so, so you're at this gym. You already have like a unique membership, you know, because you're the only one doing open gym. And then also people are asking you to coach them. And the gym, the ownership's like cool. Yeah. Mostly because I had been there for a year or year plus already. And I had shown myself to be a reasonable human. And I wasn't actually troublesome. And so I started doing my own thing. And the gym owner was supportive of it. And then it wasn't like there was some mass migration of everyone like doing CrossFit to... I know we just went to Trayne with Tom. No, that did not happen. Trayne with Tom, yeah. Well, but I think that it brings up like it starts to like a kind of an important point. Like, well, how do I get started coaching, right? Well, like you have to coach. And but before that, you actually have to tren yourself. So all of us have like a very similar like origins. So like, I started getting into this. I started my life. I spent a lot of time doing this. And so at some point, people are going to ask you for some expertise. And that point is your time to kind of, you know, it's a decision point. Like, do I want to like try on my coaching chops? Do I want to develop this? Or like am I totally fine not doing that and like moving on in other aspects of my life and sending them on the way? That expertise needs to be demonstrated in some fashion. Right. Chairs for kind of what we're talking about is that you have to have trened and achieved some level of competence with it for anybody to ask your advice and it doesn't end up being where you tren and you enjoy it. You're terrible at it. And so you go down like beating down everybody's door trying to get them to let you coach them. Yeah, you don't need to. Yeah, nobody advertise their services from ground from like day one where like because you need to have like something that's valuable. A demonstrably valuable skill set where people are seeking you out. And then you were trying to magnify that in a way. So like, Tom's in this, what I would consider a hostile environment because they're always friendly. Yeah, you know, because other people are getting coaching, right? And like, you would have to assume on someone like that coaching is incomplete or, you know, at least not, doesn't align with their goals. And so I'm going to get this additional coaching or coaching instead of this, you know, from this other guy. And so and the other part of that is it's not like you were squatting like 500 for sets of five. But you had demonstrated that you had been trening and you had proficiency in what you were doing. And you weren't trying to step outside of that. If somebody was like, yeah, and I actually, I want to squat on the squat and deadlift and bench and press. But I also want to, you know, tren for this ultra marathon. You know, there's like a point where you're like, but I actually don't know how to do that. And to your point, you know, I went, I went from like, shockingly weak to less weak and I put on weight in that process, which was something that people weren't really doing. So it wasn't like I was squatting 500 pounds. I was squatting a lot less than 500 pounds. But there was a change that was unusual in the context that I was in. And like it wasn't a hostile environment and so much as like the gym owners like you better not be doing that. And so the gym owner was actually supportive of it. So yeah, but I'm just saying that the people you'd have your say in that your clientele, what would be your clientele were informed consumers because if you thought, IMean, I had the coach, you know, that they said, no, no, I want a little bit more. Yeah, and so and then so you were at the gym, you were working out at the gym, where you got your your clients initially, same thing, like you were literally working out at O to you, when people were approaching you. Yep. You didn't just decide, you didn't wake up when one said, I want to be a coach. That's a way for people to like email you. And then you were at Cross with Jim. You're a West. And then people had already been coming up to you. Yes. So Allen, you like created a space for people to come to you for expertise. But in the military or wherever before, did you ever coach anybody? Yeah, just friends. Yeah, because they approach you because you were the workout guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was usually like, hey, dude, a bench, four or five or a couple of reps, but I can't squat it. We taught me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. On the barbinger section. On the barbinger section. But that's I think if I had to give, and all of you guys way on this, if I, you know, if someone wants to say, hey, I want a coach, like what's the first thing? Like, well, so this is assuming that you've trened on some level to develop some valuable skill set. Like, you need to be in a place where people can approach you and be approachable to allow what to happen. It's not like you just say, you wake up and say, yeah, I've trened a little bit. I'm going to be a coach. And then like, just wait for people to be. Conversely, you can't say, I'm going to tren a whole lot and get super, super strong. I'm going to be in my garage gym for the entire time. Yeah. Nobody's going to find me see me or approach me. I remember there was a, this guy was like, he lived like 20 miles outside of any, like, town. Right? Like, just, he's literally like, you know, in the middle of nowhere relatively. Yeah. And he's treninGHis garage and he's like, how do I coach people? Like, you have to go to town. Yeah. Like, you have to see people at D.C. when I was in the commercial gym, I did that for a year before I ended up doing my own thing. And they were real big about working the floor, walk the floor. And some people took that to me and like, going up to people and asked them, like, hey, can I tren you? But I never did that. I would literally just be trying on a clock and so you were like, yeah, I would just be walking around and I wait for somebody to ask me a question. And there were many days where I didn't get asked a question, but I was in that gym. I was waiting on a client. It was just going to come in an hour afterwards. Or I would be working out. Right? And then people would be like, yeah, I know that you work. You're like, hey, it's, it's, you're, you're almost waiting for people to approach you so that you can demonstrate your skill set that you should be worth, or finding a working on the time. You're not just saying, I have this skill set. Please hire me. You know, that's, it comes across as a little desperate. Yes, so you need to advertise your services until you're already like doing something, in which case you can let people know you're open for business. Right. And when you're trening with people, it's not as Tom's. It's not just that you're the strongest person even, or that you reach the great number, but I think when you're in that environment, people see everything you go through. And so they see the different trening that you do, the struggles, also that you have, and they see someone who pushes through somethinGHard, and maybe fails and yet gets back to it. And that's also just as important for people to see as seeing somebody who lifts a lot of weight. They need to make stuck with it. So, so I think if you want to coach, yeah, you should be in a gym with other humans trening. And if you're not, I don't know that you can coach like that. Like you're then you're just waiting for somebody else to like direct humans towards you. Like why would they? Well, that's exactly like nobody knows that you're an expert. And if you're not trened, if you're untrened, you're probably not an expert, which, you know, tree thirt's. Okay. So Austin, early on in your coach career, like any huge regrets. I think the early coaching career regret is one of overconfidence, which I think tends to be common among many people, especially as they start to learn things. If they learn things from people, they put some trust in and they buy into it, and they want to start dispensing this advice. It's easy to be overconfident with that. And to fall prey to all the cognitive biases that we all know now, know much better about, you know, we start to see things work that we expect to work. We tend to dismiss things when they don't work, and it doesn't necessarily fit what we expect to just standard kind of confirmation by a stuff. And then, you know, additionally not knowing what you don't know is a huge problem, and not appreciating that there's this whole world of things that you don't understand yet. And so certain pieces of advice that may have been given back then that I definitely regret because now I'm like, well, that was wrong. And maybe some of them, I didn't know at the time, some of them, nobody knew at the time because the evidence didn't exist yet, for example. But the overwhelming thing was, you know, particularly going through that initial process and get the certification and stuff like that led to an inappropriate amount of confidence and some of the things that were done or some of the advice that was dispensed. And so now things tend to be much more tempered. You think you heard anybody? In terms of an injury as a result of the advice, not that I know of, in terms of like some sort of unquantifiable harm because I gave them advice that they followed that may not have gotten them as good and outcome as they might have otherwise gotten. Short, probably. Yeah. And those are the kind of things that we count as, as harms. Yeah. So probably from that standpoint. Yeah. Tom, you think you have any like regrets from your trening crew? Not trening coach crew? Yeah. Probably giving away too much of my time. Like for free. Yeah. Just in general. I don't think I'm in that is. In general, probably being overly focused on making sure that like some of my clients were taking care of at my own expense, particularly. I don't think I don't think I really, you know, some of the advice I gave probably was not the wonderful, but I didn't like do anything. I didn't wind up hurting anyone. People tended to make progress like I was a positive person. So I never like ran into problems where I was like super mean to somebody or anything along those lines or dismissive of people. But yeah, just probably being like actually overly giving at my own expense. Of course, Tom says, I'm just too nice. That's right. Too nice. Five stars. You know, if you had a lot of people coming to you and you're giving away a lot of this time, maybe that was an indication that maybe you were in a place where you could have feasibly charged for coaching. Maybe sooner than you ultimately decided to. Yeah. Well, we were talking there was like a pricing question like how do I price myself? It's like, well, how many clients do you have? Two. I don't think that's thEQuestion desk. Yeah. Yeah. I don't think that's thEQuestion desk. Because that's not limiting or you know. Leah, early mistakes. So I think you were right. Yeah. I think one of my early mistakes that bothers me is insistence on things that didn't matter. You know, like in part because of some things ways that I had learned how to coach or about lifting, just really being too insistent on particulars about programming or what someone does. Yeah. Now, I really regret that because it didn't matter. And so when you even asked thEQuestion, do I think I harmed anybody? I don't think I've physically harmed anyone. But I think I harmed at least for a time. Some people's progress because I wasn't looking at them as an individual. I had a program or an idea that I was trying to make them all fit. Is it an indirect? Yeah. Induced neuroses and people over that kind of thing, which is I think probably. Yeah. Neurosys or like, you know, like if we're talking about people who are new to the gym and then they're scared and you're kind of like, well, but you got this is what you have to do. This is the correct way to do it. Yeah. And so that's definitely one of my regrets. But I'm really, like, I don't know that that lasted a very long time because I think when you are a good coach, you pay attention to people. Like Tom said, you start to see what people need. You want them to do well. So then you have to start thinking about why am I doing this? Should I ask morEQuestions? Should I change things? Then you become a better coach? Uh, yes. Well, yeah. I'm with you. Okay. Alan, how many are like, what sort of things early on in your gym ownership slash coaching career? Um, anything to your grit. Definitely, uh, miss Lee and information with regard to, uh, setbacks, specifically like pain and injury. Um, I always feel like I had to give an answer or I had to be this point of authority that knew. Oh, your shoulder hurts because of, you know, these trigger points. Or because of this and that, or let's mash this up or we need to start doing these corrective exercises. Or, you know, uh, I've encountered a number of people who've had a back tweak, you know, and just, uh, going about it the wrong way. Uh, probably doing all the wrong things. Um, and, you know, baby in it, uh, checking up on them, you know, way too much or like, from my standpoint of like, I don't, I know what this was like for them. I don't want them to happen again. So I'm going to like, just avoid this and this and this, uh, making the situation worse. Um, so I would say definitely from that. It's a common thing for when you're in a position of authority like that, there's this concept called commission bias, where, you know, it's this, this tendency to feel like you have to do something about the situation all the time. Um, and, you know, it's very uncomfortable to sometimes say, you know, I'm not necessarily sure what the best course of action is or that perhaps the best course of action is to not. Um, immediately do something about the situation. And so particularly when you have people who are paying you presumably for your, you know, they're paying you and they want your advice, you're like, yeah, do this. Yeah, right? Yeah. And I felt like if somethinGHappened, uh, that, you know, someone's freaking out about it. Pop their back and they're laying on the ground. Uh, I feel like I'm, if I'm not like at their level of reacting, uh, that I was almost like being dismissive, you know, like, yeah, you're fine. Yeah. So I felt like I had to like get on their level, you know what IMean, and over react to. So that's the now you know, a whole lot more about what was going on there, right? That's funny. I think also just from some of the answers. Weightlifting is probably pretty safe as, you know, things go. It's rare to like actually, you know, generally don't concuss people, you know, Speak for yourself. Yeah. Trying to tell me any credibility. Like people people, well, people will tweak things or people will, you know, you'll see, like, minor strens and things like that, but it's pretty rare that, you know, especially when you're coaching somebody that something kind of a straw fake happens. Yeah. Yeah. I think I have similar regrets for all, like, just as far as like being overconfident things, telling people information that was wrong or like unknown at the time and being very confident about it. And then always feeling like I had to do something or have an answer. IMean, that certainly happened just nonstop. The only other thing I regret is actually similar to Tom's thing where he's like, Oh, too much gave too much of myself. You didn't say that. But there was, IMean, definitely a period of time where I was trying to do too much coaching and too much business stuff. Like, just too much worked where I couldn't operate at the level that I wanted to operate at. And that would be, that was a mistake. But I think the message to the listener viewers, like, if you want to be a coach, like, you're going to screw up a lot. And it's okay. But you can, we can kind of cut that learning curve off. We can argue about learning curves of your podcast. We can cut that off by saying, you can't know all the information and what you're very confident about what you know is probably less confident. It's not like a indictment on somebody's knowledge basis. You have to be very okay. Are comfortable being uncertain about things. And then, you know, not necessarily, you know, people think you have to be very confident to sell folks on your expertise. And that's not necessarily the case. One of the biggest demonstrations of expertise is being like, actually, no, no, the answer to that. I'm not sure how confident I am in this answer or, you know, you hear that kind of thing a lot from actual experts. Yes. Yes. So, like, you know, people are like, well, I don't feel comfortable starting. I don't know if I know enough. Like, that's actually a sign that you might, you know, you may actually be ready. You know, so I don't know that somebody over a few hundred percent ready to start coaching, like, from a knowledge base. But if you feel like you have all the answers and you're, you know, ready to go, then I would strongly advise you to like temper that, you know, down and understand that five years from now. If you've started, if you're starting today, you're going to think back and shutter at a lot of things that you said and did. And hopefully you don't hurt anybody. But because weightlifting so safe, we're not usually like, hurting folks. I did have a guy who I trened drunk. I was in drunk. He was drunk. And I allowed him to tren while he was drunk. He said he really, because he was like, I really want to do this. Like, I really, I don't want to miss a session. I just, I didn't have the hour. And he was a weird, that was a weird deal. That was weird deal. You know, in hindsight, I take a heat lift. Yeah, he was fine. You know, I just did a not a great session. And anyway, all right. So let's talk about certifications for a second. So we, everybody up here besides me, like, spend a whole bunch of money on certifications. Now, being veteran senior coaches in the actual site of condition of you and unique in a way that you're actually making money in this kind of conditioning field. Unlike the vast majority of people in the direct conditioning field who are only in it for a few years because they're not making enough money. And then we'll all on to something else. How do you guys view certifications? Like, do you think there are any like very useful certifications that you would like recommend people get or how do you feel about that? So it's like, I want to come work at your gym island. What certification do I need? So I used to, like, you know, bash commercial gyms and all the popular certifications. Say there'll be a SNOW and do anything. But I'll give one example of a guy used to tren punch and nugget, John Mead. tren him when he was, when he was, when he was 17, he eventually decided that he want to start coaching too. And so without me saying anything, he got a couple certifications and he got a job as a personal trener, a California family fitness. And he's now the number one trener and like all of Northern California. He works, he loves it. I wouldn't be crazy about it. He will work like 16 hour days like clients 45 minute sessions back to back to back. Just nonstop and then go to gym and tren. And he's 11 it. And he eventually wants to go somewhere more with the coaching. But for now he's getting like hands on clients every day all day, seven days a week if you wanted. In fact, one of my, Barbara medicine clients reached out to me, said his dad, got some coaching. They live in the area. And I was like, hey, I'm booked. John's good. And so he went in anyway, he signed John to send me a text that he purchased 72 sessions with John. But anyways, he got the, you know, basic certifications. He's working in a commercial gym. And he loves it. He's getting a lot of coaching experience. So yeah, IMean in that sense. Yeah, but that's good. But yeah, I'm just telling stories now, but as far as like, which way are you saying that been so far as it gets you to a place where you can acquire the real experience, not that they're a replacement for. Right. Sometimes it's a good idea to say, I just want to go get hired a nine to five. And if that's the case, and you do need certifications. Nobody's going to say like, wow, you're really strong dude. You've got experience that you know, they want on paper, what sort of a case do you have. And so in that sense, it is definitely useful and necessary. Leo, what do you think if you're going to recommend a certification for somebody to get? Yeah, so I don't have a certification to recommend. And I think in my mind, what would maybe take the place of it is a certification at least for me. And I think for a lot of other people, even the story demonstrates that someone has put in a certain amount of time and personal effort. And so I would encourage somebody to find other ways to demonstrate that and then show that. So the people see this really does matter to you. Tom, you got a certain that you like get a fancy, fancy or no. I don't know that I have like enough of an informed opinion to say one way or the other. Well, IMean, do you want to talk about story insurance or? I could. Well, so thEQuestion is, we all add that certification all have given it up. ThEQuestion is, do you think it is a good cert for somebody to like go to like go get because and I say this by thinking like most of us are saying, if you need a certification, just go get one. So you can get experience, but the process of getting the starting strings requires more experience more. It's more involved. But does it put you in a better place as a coach? I think that's dependent upon what you want to do because if you want to work in a commercial gym, the answer is generally no because they'll be looking for a CSES. Yeah, or NASA or something. Sure. Getting a starting string certification will make you appeal to a segment of the population that's aware of starting strength. And also the kind of emphasis on being competent at seeing and queuing movement on a couple of lifts is valuable. Yeah, can be sure. Yeah. And like even though we would differ in certain regards on a programming front, the idea that like you can kind of have something of a focus and get stronger and work on these things. And like a systematic way is also useful. The general concept. Sure. Even in the end of the awesome. IMean, I think that, you know, we look at some of the coaches that we've brought on here. So like Allen, for example, like Joe, like Leah, like Hassan, you know, multiple of our coaches that we have brought on our people who. You and I kind of mentored. And, you know, I think that I feel better about the, you know, the people who I have mentored and kind of brought up where I can say unequivocally. You know, I trust Allen to do effectively everything from a coaching programming standpoint. He knows what his scope is. He knows when something is no longer within his scope. He knows when he has the appropriate degree of kind of calibratinGHis uncertainty meter with things when he knows what he knows and what he doesn't know and he doesn't know. And I can say that for all the people that I've kind of mentored. So I like that model of of, you know, of kind of coaching development education stuff like that. Of course, it's a more time intensive process and things like that. So, you know, perhaps finding somebody that you, it's analogous to what we did in residency. Going through that process under, you know, that kind of degree of supervision, which again. Yep, it's very time intensive. But that's kind of the way that we develop that kind of level of competence. And so, you know, maybe where as for example in contrast, somebody who just says, I got this certification under no circumstance. Do I have that like unequivocally trusted your ability to do anything? If you've compared to the person who maybe I have mentored or say the person you have mentored, I can say, oh, I have a good idea of what they would do and I have, you know, full confidence in that. And so, you know, if you're looking to get started in the coaching game and, you know, you are trening, you're in a public place, you're doing all these all these things that we've talked about so far. Maybe the final way to try to cap it off is some sort of kind of like, you know, finding somebody who maybe you like the way they do things or you aspire to their practice model. And seeing if you can intern with them or, or, you know, work under them in some fashion, which is something that we've done with, again, lots of people who we ultimately end up saying, hey, you're ready to go, let's hire you and bring you on. Yeah, exactly. We'll not necessarily for us, but whoever that may be to you and maybe in your activity of choice or your sport of choice or whatever the case is, I think that's how, you know, a lot of practical expertise gets developed much more effectively than taking a course or achieving a certification or something like that. Yeah. Because even like when we can't get out of medical school, we had been through all the classrooms stuff. We had the certification that is the MD, we didn't know what the hell to do with our first patient that we saw, right? Until we went through the process of that time intensive mentorship and guidance and correction and making mistakes and that kind of thing. Yeah. Yeah. I think that, IMean, I agree with you, that would be the best way to actually grow your skillset versus acquiring different certifications. I don't think there's any certification that I would recommend above another other than you need to probably have one to get yourself in job. And so you would make sure that that comes, that whatever certification you get is associated with some sort of insurance that you can opt into because that you just need that. But there's not a certification out there that grants you a skill set that I think is worth the cost of attended the price of attendance. So, for instance, getting a USAW like certification. Like, if you want to work with weight lifters, probably going to have to have that certification or at least have gone through their coaching system because, you know, that they tend to stay within their own groups. But it doesn't make you a great Olympic weight lifter or Olympic weight lifting coach. Getting the starting strength certification, it's sort of, you can coach to a reasonable standard like these handful lifts under a very specific model that is not, you know, universal and is not necessarily the only way to do those exercises. And so you're constrened. But like, you know, if you're not going to grow past that. Maybe that's fine. There's a big cost there. Getting a CSES doesn't make you like a college level strength conditioning coach. And so, and they're different costs associated with this. So since none of these are going to bring you enough business to like warrant. Getting one over another, I just don't care. So my recommendation is get the cheapest certification that you can get that is universally accepted. So CSES is actually like relatively inexpensive. If you have a college degree, the ACSM, HFS, again, is reasonably inexpensive and the test materials are reasonably inexpensive. And as you universally accepted, those would be my two like ones that I'd recommend if you're trying to work in a commercial gym setting. I, if you have to get a Nazum serve because that's the only one that gym accepts. Yeah, I would prefer not, but, you know, maybe find a different gym. But there are no like specialty search that I think are worthwhile to get as far as actually improving your knowledge base in a way that makes you a better coach. In other words, should you go through the process to obtain these certifications? You should not come out the other end under the impression that you are actually a certified strategy that you're in especially. Yeah, exactly. Like you just have a piece of paper that allows you to start your journey. Yeah. So people like, what about this one nutrition one, I'm like, nope, not that one either. Like what about this one kettlebell, like special note, not that one either. What about it's like no, no. They're all like minimum requirements for you to like get a piece of paper doesn't mean that you'rEQualified. The only nutrition thing that I know that, that qualifies you to be to work on some body nutrition is a registered database. Yeah, after you've done all your internship, yeah, the thousand hours is required. So, okay, move it along. We got two questions left. We'll go down the row, start with Tom quality or qualities or quality that you think is very important as a coach. I think I think there's probably two things. One is some level of technical expertise, whatever that means. Like you need to. You need to be able to see movement, cue movement or understand programming in some form of fashion. Like the kind of basic technical knowledge. But outside of that, I think that like being personable or being compassionate and being able to relate to a lot of people and to tailor your approach to whoever it is you're working with is as important and in some ways more important than like the straight up technical skill I've seen. I've seen people who are great lifters or who know a lot. Fail very badly when interacting with their lifters and I think you need to be able to relate to your lifter. I think I was probably thinking similar along some of the lines in addition to the expected level of knowledge based communication skills. This is kind of how I would summarize it and communication skills. Can you relate to your lifter like the example that Alan gave earlier with the back pain knowinGHow to respond and communicate and that sort of a situation to drive the boat in the right direction and not the wrong direction. I think that's a place of course itself requires a little bit of extra background knowledge just to what you should be doing and how this stuff works. Being able to kind of read social cues. Some people have a bit of difficulty with that. Reading if you are just completely missing all these red flags that your lifter is throwing up at you during the session and you're not able to respond to them and modify things accordingly if needed or provide reassurance. If no modification needs things like that where you can read reflect communicate really effectively to guide them along the path. Whatever that may be, whether it's trening related or through about a rehab or you know if they enter a competition, the kind of communication that happened between like a coach and an athlete on a meat day or something like that. The communication skills are super super important and that's something that takes years, probably years to develop. Lots of mistakes, lots of like foot and mouth moments and may actually benefit from having that kind of mentorship that I described earlier where somebody was watching you interact or communicate with somebody and this is something like an medicine. I do with the residents that I work with and have them communicate with the patient. I'm like, you know, after all, it's just a step out. We'd be brief and here's how I would have said this. I would have said this a little differently. I could see on their face. They responded, you know, maybe scared them a little bit or maybe, you know, things like that. So I agree with Tom that the communication skills in some situations are probably even more important than knowing the raw, you know, science or technical data or something like that. Sure. Yep. I don't disagree with either of you. I just think as far as like how to acquire said things like I think the fun knowledge is really important and I think to acquire that. My general advice is find three sort of people or groups that you like, like, you can find very trustworthy, right, and the way that you an ascertain that is like, the credentialed. There's a track record like on par with like academia, like, you know, things that kind of give them sort of like, so like in the within their social groups are they value is like high, you know, quality content producers like they have all these sort of check marks like, okay, cool. They, you know, they're PhDs or their MDs or they're, you know, veteran coaches and all those, they have a bunch of social currency because they put out a bunch of good content and and they actually have content that's available for you to consume. And then you can get the three like things and pick three of them and read everything they put out and watch just do that because you're trying to get the latest fund of knowledge and you can't read everybody and you can't, you know, see every so the idea is that you're going to start somewhere start with three people. So that's like again, the fun knowledge I think is super important for the communications thing, I don't think you can like take a class on how to do that and be, you know, you can take classes on this, but you also have to do it and practice it and get feedback. And I think that's when you, you probably want to, the bigger things that happens when people start coaching and they do it for a long enough period of time, they develop their own coaching style, their own coaching voice, their own interview voice and style and stuff and they start kind of. Yeah, they're able to express the personality that they want to project a little more clearly and be able to be adaptable to different situations based on different clients needs, once, et cetera. But you just have to practice that and I think what happens now most of the times people go in, they're not necessarily rapidly expanding their fund of knowledge and they're not necessarily trying to become a better communicator outside of selling people on stuff. You know, it's like, hey, do you want to work out with me today? You know, buy this package, which I'm not, you have to ultimately end up selling your skillset because if you know, you could be the best, have the best fun to knowledge and all this other stuff, but if you have no clients, you're on a coach. So you end up having to ask for money at some point, like you never ask for money, never get paid. You know, giving you any difference in the same thing. I don't think I really have anything different. I think I would just sum it up by saying you have to be really, really committed to being an expert. Yeah, what about, yeah, for what about for women, though, anything different for women? Yes, you need other right hormones. Yes. Well, so, but yeah, but like for women for women, because this is a male dominated deal. Oh, I've been that like a hugEQuestion. Why does this coaching, why is coaching a male dominated? Well, number one, I just don't think there's enough women who pursue strength and condition themselves. So they might be why would we have women who are coaching? You're going to have less because there's less women. Right. And then it is a pretty, it's a pretty unique and at times difficult to go into if you are a woman and you can feel like you're out of, like you're out of your element really easily and IMean, I think. We're falling apart here. We're a man, we're just going to let him in. Yeah, right. Editing. I'll do a test. Yeah. Thanks, Ian, post. Yeah, that's famous last words. Okay, so we'll just go down along last question here. So one piece of advice you can give to somebody who wants to start coaching, what would it be? Austin. I'll probably echo this same advice we give to people when they want to come back from an injury. It's going to be too embrace the process, meaning that you need to accept that it's going to take a long time. You need to accept that you know, you're going to make a bunch of mistakes. You need to accept that even if you feel really confident about something, like you probably shouldn't be. And you know, we even at this stage in the game, we're changing things that we do on a regular basis. We're reading variously all the time, updating our thinking on things and are almost becoming less certain of things every day. Really, really, really, really. Yeah. And that's kind of just comes with the territory in terms of embracing the process of self-improvement, really, and anything. So that's what I would recommend. I think my recommendation would be to really accept the fact that it love that you are going to be a professional coach. Because it's kind of easy to just start trening people. You're on the side. Yeah. Yeah. But if this is something you really want to do, it is not easy to get to that point where it is your profession. But you have to be very committed as far as learning and time and money and how you carry yourself and all that to being a professional coach. I agree. There are a lot of people doing a part time. I got two or three clients. I don't know if you want them as your coach, and I don't know if they're really serious about coaching. Right. Yeah. IMean, someone can enjoy that. That can be their little hobby. But if a coach is really what you want to be, it has to be serious. It probably would be what I just said. I don't know if they can. I feel like that was my answer to just know your target client. And again, that can be as specific as you want or as generals who'd like, you know, obviously, don't be so rigid in your approach and be able to, you know, I only want power look for the plus 500 works. It's not really beautiful. Just on the fly when helping someone. But yeah, understanding maybe is general. I was like, I'd like to teach people about string trening. I think it's good to have that and kind of stick with that. And I'm, you know, not going to try my best to help a triathlete. IMight refer them somewhere else. You know, so. I think you have to be willing to eat your own dog food. I think what? I think that part of coaching should be exposing yourself to the things that you ask of your clients. And I think it winds up informing your coaching practice and continuing to inform your coaching practice. If you are doing things. Obviously, you will have clients that need to do things that are different than what you do. But still being in touch with what it is to, if you are in barbell coach to do barbell trening yourself. I think it is important. I think you guys have excellent answers. I think a lot of the content in here has been stuff that we wish that somebody told us early on in our coaching careers. The only thing I'm going to add because I haven't said it yet. And I do think this is really important part of actually building a coaching business. If you actually want to do this professionally, it is content generation. And so, when somebody comes to me about business related issue, they are like, my business isn't taking off my business. And then the first thing I'm saying, are you trening your garage? Does anybody know that you are trening? Does anybody know that you are an expert? If you know that you are a garage, go to the gym and talk to people. But the other part of that is content generation. What have you created for the community lately to demonstrate your expertise? But demonstrate your interests and things. And demonstrate your being a professional. Demonstrate your dog food to take it back to Tom. So it is like, I think content is king. And so you should be writing things. You should be making videos. You shouldn't mean start a podcast. Like if you don't have an idea. You don't have to start a podcast. But if that is your jam, go for it. But I think with writing stuff, for instance, if you have a topic, you are going to look up. I'm just going to learn things. So it is like self-exportation. Same thing if you made a video, you are like, I am like a video on carbohydrate. Carbohydrate intake. I don't know whatever. And you are like, oh, maybe I should learn something about this first. So I have content. And then you end up learning a bunch of stuff. You didn't know so content not only informs you, but also creates a service to the community. Also demonstrate your expertise, demonstrate your professionalism, demonstrate what you will Interested in. And so if you are not creating content yet and you want to be a coach or you are a coach and you are feeling like, what do I do now? I would spare time. Create stuff. Create content. Much content is you can create the better. So that is why. What did I, when we first recorded this, I told you my mantra, when I started doing this was like, I want to be prolific. Like, I want people to look back and say, when I was in medical school, like, you see all the articles that came out, all the videos, all the content. Like, to do was prolific. So that is like one of the motivating like, mantras when I am trying to create something wherever it is like, you know, if I were prolific, I would probably just finish this right now instead of watching another episode of Family Guy. Anyway, from the Barbell Medicine crew to you, thank you so much for watching. This has been a coaching podcast. If you catch it on YouTube, make sure you hit subscribe. Give it a like if you dug the video, leave a comment below that really helps us out. Also, if you're listening to us on iTunes, Stitcher, Spotify, wherever you get your podcast from, leave us a five star rating and a review. We read all of them. It's really helpful and helps other people discover our podcast. Thank you so much. Catch you guys next time. I think this is a fun question. And I like to ask Austin, he's fun questions first because on the spot, spirit. Yeah, what's your fear animal? It's awesome because they like swim. Fast, they're also like hairless like me. That's a funny fun. Thank you.

=== FILE: How to Combat Bad Information [IF9B9G5sZzk].txt ===

What strategies do you use in your approach to correcting misinformation or misunderstanding in various settings? Uh, wow. Okay. So what strategy? We'll start with the first one and then, uh, yeah. So other than holding Barbell Medicine seminars and all the information that has already been disseminated through Barbell Medicine, of course. Let me tell you a story. It's no stories about my life. I previously, uh, particularly early on at Barbell Medicine, I thought it was my job to police the internet to make sure that no BS was being written anywhere, that could potentially harm anyone and I needed to correct everybody. That's a fool's errand because not only can you never get anywhere close to all of it, you're not actually changing anyone's mind. I still do this from time to time because I'm not very smart. I told you my GPA earlier, so you guys should be well aware of like my ability to like learn things. So not high. So I still do this at times because either I am a glutton for punishment or just again, not smart, I learn a lesson. But one thing I realized is that, uh, more productive use of my time, our time is to actually just create more information. So effectively, like, if somebody's saying something silly on the internet, like, I can't stop them from saying that and me directly challenging them is unlikely to work out in my favor. But if I write an article about that particular thing or make like a long, you know, series, like a tutorial or like an Instagram story, you know, rant thing, that'll reach way more people, help more people, whatever. I particularly like writing stuff or making a YouTube video or whatever, it's stuff that doesn't disappear on as long lasting content. It tends to be good because a lot of people are going to see it. Then it's there. I can refer people to it and then allows me to really flesh out my ideas. The cool thing is, uh, if I can find some common ground with that person who I originally disagreed with, uh, on occasion, you can sort of strike up a conversation based on that. Uh, it's rare, but it has happened before where I end up agreeing with people that I've initially been like, oh, no. This makes me angry because you're wrong. But uh, it's possible. So my recommendation is for like how to go about this is not correcting people that writing reflex, uh, can occur. Uh, I do think in professional settings, it's a little different because usually if you come in guns ablazing with a bunch of evidence that you're willing to just give people and say, hey, if you have some time, check this out, read it, particularly if they're guidelines or like, you know, bulletins or whatever, those tend to be like, oh, shoot, I didn't actually know this. Um, so I think you can do that in professional settings, but in more social settings or like on social media or amongst friends, I probably just wouldn't do that and I'd focus on putting that creating original content that would be my take. Yeah, I agree. The context matters a whole lot here. And so within the public sphere, the social media sphere, things like that, I'll go ahead and say, I'm a smarter than Jordan. And that I just don't do it. I don't care to engage with with people or argue people with people or try to go out and correct misinformation. Um, I'm happy to just hear my recommendations. Here's why these are my recommendations and you people out there are free To take them or not. And that's kind of your decision. And so I actually take a similar approach with patients even because sometimes clinicians, doctors, healthcare professionals, um, can get really, really, really, really overly invested in like paternalistic and like feel excessively responsible for this stuff. And assuming that I have discussed with somebody and feel like I've gotten them adequately educated and I can, and I know that I've gotten through to them and my message is clear and been understood if they choose to pursue a different route with things, then fine. I feel like I've done my job. Um, whereas sometimes people might take offense to it. If somebody doesn't follow their advice or they might really beat themselves up or get to, you don't work up about it. Um, I see this more often when when patients say they want to leave the hospital during the course of my treatment and then I go and I educate them about why I'm recommending maybe they stay and if, if I have more work to do or whatever and if they say no, I'm, I'm leaving then okay, you know, I can't really beat myself up too much about that. And in social media, I ignore all of that stuff. I definitely don't go down the rabbit hole of arguing with people or I get tagged every day in things people like here. Look at this. What are your thoughts? I don't have thoughts. My thoughts have been expressed elsewhere and you can again take my recommendations or not and that's fine. One day we're all gonna die and things are gonna be just fine. So, um, that doesn't bother me. In the professional setting, among other doctors, among other clinicians, I know or at least I like to think that I'm among peers who are going to be more receptive to evidence. And so if you've watched any of my lectures that I've given to other doctors on sarcopenia or the cancer lecture or really any of my, my talks that I've given, uh, my slides are just littered with references and graphs and data and things like that. And that's something that I, uh, it's, it's, it's, it's obviously important for how we practice, but it's also a strategy to actually convince people that, hey, I actually, you know, know what I'm talking about here. And here's my justification for my belief, whereas in society, uh, for a lot of this stuff, you don't necessarily need to have a really strong justification for your belief. You can just have beliefs. So if you listen to, uh, our last rehab podcast from Reno's Q&A Michael Ray talked about, uh, this YouTube channel that we all, that, that me and him, he, he introduced me to called a street epistemology. And it's a guy who is actually in San Antonio, and he goes around and he'll meet somebody and he'll talk to him a little bit and he'll elicities like tries to get them to make a claim about something that they believe. And then very gently, kindly he'll start to delve into this belief and ask them just kind of pointed questions to try to get at the heart of why they believe what they believe oftentimes it ends up going down until like religion and things like that. But he's very good at it, uh, in terms of getting to why people believe what they believe, but overwhelmingly what he ends up showing is people can't justify oftentimes what they believe. They just make sure it up and they just believe what they believe. And, um, we're very, uh, we're very stupid creatures. And so like Jordan said, it's a fool's air into go out and try to save the world and correct everything that's wrong out there. So I just don't do it and wouldn't recommend it. Uh, have you been in an argument in the last week? But been in an argument in the last week. No. I've been into, you've been into. Well, to be fair, it's not my fault. One of them was like a scheduled podcast on like injury and it's technique. Sure. Yes. So that I did that to myself. Yes. But the second one, this guy was making the claim that because doctors don't receive like advanced nutrition trening during medical school that they should not be counseling patients on dietary changes, to which my reply is, why do you need to know all these intricacies to do that behavioral change counseling? You don't. Just like you don't need to be a programming whiz or like, uh, you know high level coach in order to help people in, you know, achieve these physical activity guideline minimums. You don't need that. You need to be experienced to know what to do for trouble shooting for like performance, right, or have a big toolbox for cueing people in real time. Sure. But to the extent that you need this huge fund of knowledge, just to like be able to draw up some initial recommendations. Like, I don't think you need that. Or to act, I would prefer the in fact your tool kit was more robustly stocked with behavioral counseling techniques. Yeah. IMean, most of you guys who are here this weekend, you probably are now feeling a little bit more comfortable at what the basic outlines of what we would recommend as a healthy dietary pattern might look like, right? So energy intake and protein fiber, how the fat distribution looks like. And then within that there's tons of latitude. So cool. You don't need to have hyper advanced trening to be able to counsel somebody on some of that stuff. But having those conversations is the hard

=== FILE: How to Fix a Training Plateau： A Step-By-Step Guide For Breaking Through [EHUwQzLtU5w].txt ===

 them. For background information, you need to be familiar with the fitness fatigue model, which is used to describe how people adapt and respond to exercise. In this model, performing exercise drives a simultaneous increase in both fitness and fatigue levels. Now, there are many exercise variables that can be adjusted to try to generate more fitness and less fatigue, but there are no free lunches here. More exercise will tend to drive more fitness and more fatigue, whereas less exercise will tend to drive less fitness and less fatigue. All right, with that in mind, let's imagine a lifter who squats 310 pounds for three sets of six reps at an RPE 8. So two reps left in the tank, and he does that on week one. He comes back on week two, and he squats 315 pounds for three sets of six reps, but this time it was a soul-crushing bone-on-bone RPE 10 for each set. It was maximal. No reps left in the tank. First question is, which day was he stronger? You got your answer yet? Now, most people will look at the number on the bar and say that he was stronger on week two. 315 pounds is more than 310 pounds, right? So he's stronger when he squatted more weight. But the fact that the effort was much harder on week two should influence your interpretation. On week one, he did the work each set with two reps left in the tank, meaning he could have definitely squatted 315 pounds if he wanted to. Sure, it might have been a little harder, but it's unlikely that adding a measly five pounds would have made it a 10 out of 10 maximal effort like he experienced on week two. If we compare the two efforts, his performance was either roughly the same or lower on week two as it was compared to week one. If he had actually gotten stronger, he should have been able to lift more weight with the same relative effort, meaning that he should have been able to squat 315 pounds for three sets of six all at RPE 8 or with two reps left in the tank. But since he didn't actually get stronger in the time between the workouts, perhaps maybe even getting weaker, some folks might interpret this as a stall or a training plateau. But why? Was it a lack of fitness adaptations, in this case strength, coming online? Or was it too much fatigue to where the lifter couldn't recover before the next session? Now, if we think it's a lack of fitness, we would need to increase the signal from the exercise program to drive more strength development. We might need more volume, more intensity, or more something to get the wheels turning. In the short term, this is unlikely to immediately produce results as the added training will also drive additional fatigue and the body is going to need some more time to adapt or accommodate to it. If we think it's a lack of recovery, adding more work is like trying to put out a fire with gasoline. In that case, we would need to pull back and reduce the signal from the exercise program. In the short term, this might work to see an increase in strength as reducing the amount of training being done can temporarily increase performance as fatigue is dissipated or bled off. Now, this is how most peaking programs work. But if we reduce the exercise over the long term, we're going to get less of a signal to improve fitness too. Now, in this particular scenario, we don't really know why the lifter didn't get stronger because there's just not enough information. It's only been a week and that just doesn't tell us much. Now, many people react to a one-week stall by panicking. They see the bar speed slow down or the weight stay the same and they immediately want to change their program. They're responding to short-term noise and in doing so, they often destroy the long-term signal. Adaptations require the consistent application of an appropriately dosed stimulus over a long period of time. You can't rush it and you certainly can't get more out of doing less than you actually need long-term. So, we decided it was time to stop the guessing game. Today, we're dropping a brand new six-part audio series on Barbell Medicine Plus called the Training Plateau Action Plan and it comes with an actionable PDF to help you determine exactly why you stalled and, most importantly, what to do about it. Now, to give you a taste of how we think through these problems, I'm sharing a clip from our recent Ask Us Anything that, again, I did with Dr. Baraki for our Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers. We start by defining what a plateau or a stall is, as well as some strategies for determining the cost and how to move forward or get over the hump. Here's that conversation. So, the question is, if any of your lifts stall for more than three to four weeks or you hit peak performance for a certain rep range and your performance drops, will you increase volume for the next block or try to adjust variables like exercise selection for the same block and or rep ranges? And also, is there a time where power lifters will benefit from an extended hypertrophy block to break through a plateau instead of doing a power lifting specific block? Pretty interesting question. We've talked about this a number of times in different places. Should we do a dedicated podcast on this? You guys can comment and let us know, you know, like power lifting performance, what do for programming? I don't know. Maybe that's interesting to some people or maybe it's just a dwindling cohort of our audience. We'll see. But tell me what you think about this, Dr. Baraki. When I think about a stall, I want to like define it, you know, like or a plateau. And I think about it as a lack of progress for about three to four weeks, despite consistent effort and being in a resource rich environment, meaning that the person is eating reasonably well, sleeping reasonably well, there's not this crazy life stress or environmental stress that's going on. So like, you know, we would predict that if the program was appropriate as far as the formulation, so what's in it and the correct dose that you would see some demonstrable progress in that timeframe. And in particular, I'm thinking about the priority lifts. So like the exercises that come like first, second, or even third on like our templates, whereas like, you know, if this biceps curls at the end, I'm like, I don't know that I care that much. And I don't know that I can quantify that as a stall. It's just like, look, it's at the end of the session. So like fatigue is just going to be a thing. Does that jive with your kind of, you know, how you would define a stall or a plateau? I think it's reasonable. The only thing that I might, I don't know if it's really a quibble or just like a slightly different way to think about it is when you put a timeframe, that three to four week period that is admittedly made up just to be clear. And also something that may require a little bit of adjustment based on the person that we're talking about and where they're at in their training journey. And the reason I say that is like for you or I, you know, when we're training seriously, it's like if our lifts aren't really moving a ton over the course of three to four weeks, we are not suddenly freaking out or saying, oh, we're in a stall and like aggressively changing tons of variables. There might be some tinkering that we're doing, but at the same time, it's like, you know, I've mentioned this before. If either of us hit a PR once or twice a year, that's like a pretty good year for us at this point, right? And so it's like how much true quote unquote progress can you realistically expect outside of kind of artifactual progress? And when I say artifactual progress, that means like if you, you know, set up your training in a way that the loads necessarily go up week to week, maybe because your RPE targets are getting higher or because your rep range is going down. That's not necessarily the same thing as like progress. It's just a different way to set up your training, perhaps to give you a lead in to build some physical adaptations to get your psychology right to kind of build some momentum in various ways. And so, yeah, if, if we have, you know, this, a person who, as I gather, is likely the case from the person asking this question, maybe like a early intermediate quote unquote, if we wanted to apply that kind of also made up terminology, then yeah, that's a reasonable amount of time during which we should see some demonstrable, you know, changes in their performance. But for a very early career lifter, you know, maybe we expect some things a little bit more often for a much later career lifter, we might not expect things anywhere near that timeframe. So that's the only quibble I would have here, but otherwise, yeah, pretty reasonable take. Yeah, it's not, I think you could maybe adjust that timeframe two different ways. So way number one would be like, look, if you are anybody up to like a very experienced or relatively experienced trainee within three to four weeks, you should see some demonstrable progress. If everything else has stayed the same and the environment is resource rich, like we said, and if you are an advanced lifter, it's probably going to be longer. So that's one adjustment. Alternatively, you could adjust the anchor by which you're comparing performance. So for example, your best squat all time is like, well, like 630 or something or six. Yeah, right around that. Yep. 625, I think. But that's not your current max. Totally not. Your current max, let's call it 540 or whatever it is. Right. And so even then with your current max, I would expect some sort of signal of an improvement within that, you know, three to four weeks, maybe it's five weeks, whatever from where you're starting, you know, to that time point. So I think that historical anchor can be problematic. If you're trying to define a stall or plateau, I would use a more recent benchmark. How does that fair? Yeah, fair enough. All right. So the first part when I'm thinking through this is like, let's verify, let's set, let's do the assessment. Let's verify. Are we tracking estimated one RM? Are we testing actual one RM? We tend to favor the former, right? Cause like testing in training, it's like, is it really important that we get the most accurate, you know, look, you went up and then you went to a point where you failed. I don't think that's necessary, but the problem becomes when people are tracking estimated one RMs from like sets of eight or 10 or 12, or the rep ranges are moving. It's like, I don't know that this really, like, it's not giving me a strong enough signal of like, yep, you're stalled for sure. It's more like, this is just noisy data. And so at that point I might say, why don't you do a single at eight, you know, before or after, and just as a comparison. And so one strategy that I use, and you'll see it in our templates and in my coaching clients is like week one, this is just an example. The numbers are kind of made up. It depends on the person, but they'll do a squat four at seven, four at eight, four at nine, or four at six, four at seven, four at eight, these ascending sets to triangulate their current strength potential. And then at the end of the block, let's call it eight weeks later, they'll do four at seven, four at eight, four at nine. It's a similar, it's like a test type thing just to compare and say, did you get stronger or not? And that kind of gives me feedback that I feel like is relatively, you could compare it without doing too much, you know, rationalization or too much hand wavy mental gymnastics sort of stuff. So that's the first thing I want to verify. Part two is, and this is like, you know, the, I don't know what the market size is for like strength training as far as money goes, but let's call it the million dollar question. You have to determine whether or not it's insufficient stimulus, right. Or insufficient sort of adaptation, like, is it too much or too little basically. And that is challenging to, um, uh, to discern. So, you know, if you're not getting enough stress to drive an adaptation, you won't see the fitness adaptation provided you're measuring it in some sort of way that's repeatable. And if you're not able to recover or respond to it, like excessive fatigue, you're doing too much, you're also not going to be able to, uh, demonstrate that improvement in fitness adaptation. So discerning that, like teasing that out is challenging. When I think about it, I'm like, if it's insufficient, person's probably not sore very often. They feel pretty fresh on a daily basis. Uh, when they go into the gym, it's just kind of, uh, stagnant the weights that they're using. Uh, for example, on the other hand, with excessive fatigue too much, I'm like, you're probably sore more often than not. You might have some joint, you know, pain type stuff that's kind of popping up. Your motivation might be a little compromised because every session is kind of a grinder. Your session RPEs are higher, like stuff like that. Does that seem to make sense to you? Yeah. I think that's often how we have these conversations with people when they have these concerns, trying to get a much more of a subjective history and how they're feeling day to day, how they're approaching their workouts, how they're leaving their workouts to kind of give us a little bit of direction of, am I pushing further or am I pulling back? And then if I'm, or am I keeping things kind of more steady, giving it more time sometimes is the right answer. So there's a lot of different paths, but some of that subjective input from the trainee is really essential. It's not something that is always very clearly quantifiable that will point you in a confident direction that the athlete's input is really important. Yeah. You got to make it. You're just hedging your bets. You're like, I feel like it's probably too little, or I feel like it's probably too much. And those have, you know, different sort of courses of action. If you feel like it's not enough, then you're going to need more training load. And if you feel like it's too much, you need less training load. And so once you've kind of chosen your path, two paths divergent to the woods and I chose the one that's whatever, you got to pick a path and then you're just manipulating training load. So training load is not only just weight on the bar, but the reps that you use the volume that you're doing and then the proximity to failure and all of these, it's like a, you know, a 10 band or whatever equalizer. And you get to kind of, you know, try to optimize. Um, that's effectively the formulation of the training. And so if somebody had too low of a training, a training load, then I would likely increase volume because I suspect that I was starting from a place that was, uh, intelligent. Like the exercise selection was appropriate to what you care about. The rep scheme was also appropriate and intensity was appropriate to what you care about. If maximal strength, hypertrophy, whatever. And then the proximity to failure was also intelligent. Like you weren't doing every set to RP 10, for example, for maximal strength. So those are some big assumptions, but look, if you're a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, I feel like it's a reasonable assumption. Nonetheless, um, if it's too much training load, then I'm going to go the opposite way. I'm likely going to reduce the number of sets, increase the proximity to failure. So get further away from failure, things of that nature. And, you know, that's kind of like the 10,000 foot view. There's some nuance here though. Um, so for example, what if the environment is just not conducive to you making gains, meaning you're missing meals, or for example, your sleep is compromised, life stress, whatever. If that's the case, training modification probably should still happen, but also your expectations should change just a different season of life. And so I think about when I was in the ICU, for example, doing that rotation, I think about, you know, when you were doing night shifts, for example, in medical school, it's just not a great environment. And so you're like, look, I'm kind of, this is more like maintenance mode. Like I'm training for a psychological benefit. And then also to like maintain my existing adaptations at that point, almost universally, I like reducing training load just because the sort of, it's not the training stress that's, that's pickling you or cooking you. It's the life stress. And so reducing the training load to sort of match all of that seems like a good idea. We see this like people in high stress academic settings, like, oh, I got a finals coming up or a high stress job setting. Look, I got a deadline. I got whatever. Does that kind of make sense to you? Yeah. You're mitigating detraining as much as possible compared with the idea of promoting, you know, new training adaptations. And by mitigating detraining, it makes it so that when you're ready to kind of put all your resources back in the game, you're less likely to experience either significant soreness that takes a ton of time to recover from or an injury that would be, you know, otherwise avoidable because you didn't have as big of a jump in your training loads compared to if you just like quit or taking time off altogether. So it's just kind of keeping you as prepared as possible to get back in the game once you're ready. Yeah. And then the last little wrinkle here is let's say maybe the training load is actually fine. And again, the training formulation, what the training consists of is also reasonable or fine to the best of your knowledge. Maybe it's a technique related thing. So for example, your legs may in fact be getting stronger on a squat, but if your technique is compromised to such a way, such a point where it's just, it's a ceiling right now, well, you got to work on that. And it could be, you know, broadly speaking, I separate these in like two different categories. Is this just like a skill related thing or is like a specific muscle deficiency that you need to kind of like make up for? And so I discussed this a lot in the low fatigue ebook, whatever. So that would be a great resource for not only like troubleshooting, but also like how to identify those sticking points. But yeah, that'd be kind of like the last little wrinkle here. It's like, well, maybe the training load is fine. Maybe the environment is also fine. Maybe it's just you. Like it's not me, it's you. That sort of thing. And so that we discussed the courses of action there. So that kind of all makes sense. And you're ultimately, you're just going to monitor your response and iteratively change based on the same sort of like little algorithm we just worked through. The last question here was, is there a time where powerlifters will benefit from just a straight up hypertrophy block to break a plateau? Generally speaking, outside of psychological preferences where someone's like, look, I do not want to do the low bar squad, the competition bench, my regular deadlift. I'm just burnt out outside of that setting, which is totally fine, totally normal. And like, whatever you can do a break. Not really. I don't think that powerlifters should be doing hypertrophy specific sort of training to the exclusion of training for their sport, mainly because you get decent hypertrophy stimulus from squat bench deadlift and their variations. You can prioritize hypertrophy more in a particular block if you feel like my technique is compromised by lack of musculature. And ultimately, like long-term strength gain requires both hardware updates, that's hypertrophy at the level of the muscle, more functional units to create force at the level of muscle and software updates, neurological type stuff. And you want both. So a good program should include elements of both and where you shift your priority, you know, hypertrophy versus strength. And that blend kind of depends on the individual and then also where they're at in the competitive year. If you're close to a meet, probably not a lot of hypertrophy work. If you're far away from a meet, more hypertrophy work, generally speaking. Does that make sense to you? I think it's reasonable if you don't know anything else about the person. And the reason I make that caveat is that I think that over time working with enough people, we have also seen some folks who just generally tend to do better with more of their training spent in higher rep ranges. Totally. And they prefer it, they train better that way, they tolerate it better, and it still ends up leading to like 1RM performance improvements and things like that, like keeping reps higher for longer. And then other people who just tell us reliably, they're like, gosh, every time I do higher rep sets at a particular, say, reasonable intensity range, maybe they don't respond as well or things tend to decline. And so this is all just where, you know, you're proposing like knowing nothing else about you, here's how I would go about this. But once you gather more information about the person's kind of training response or their preferences or things like that, then it just becomes an exercise in tailoring it towards those things, even though you don't necessarily need to commit to that forever. So even when I tailor something towards it, I still might say, hey, what do you think about experimenting with this for a little bit of time if it's something you never tried before? Even that is sometimes enough to get somebody excited and, you know, try hard, which is all that might be needed for them and something new. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Get excited about their training for sure. The last little nugget here, and then we can move on if I don't want to do 20 minute answers to every question. Agree. I find that the people who tend to thrive upon switching to higher rep range ranges, present company, me, including, I'm talking about me, it mostly stems from like overshooting on the lower rep ranges. Meaning like the bigger weights. Yeah. Who doesn't? Yeah. And so I'm like, look, if I have a little bit of like, maybe we'll call it like a conditioning level constraint, like, look, dude, what are you going to squat for a set of 8% of 10? What are you going to deadlift for a set of 12? Show me. That's what I'm saying. So I can't, you know, take, I can't go full send because I'm like, I'm tired. Yeah. So just, just a thought. I don't, I don't have any evidence to support that. It's just completely made up, but some experience there. I hope that clears up some of the confusion about defining a stall. Like we mentioned, strength isn't linear. Sometimes the best move is to actually stay the course. However, if you've checked the boxes and you truly are stuck, you're going to need a plan. In this new series on Barbell Medicine Plus, we go into every variable, volume, intensity, frequency, exercise selection, progression. We give you a step-by-step method to diagnose and fix your own training using some intelligent troubleshooting. You can sign up now and get instant access to the series, the PDF, and our entire library of exclusive content at barbellmedicine.supercast.com. Check it out now.

=== FILE: How to Re-Start Training After a Layoff [c4NNE6eox4c].txt ===

Jordan said, boy, anytime I see that in a question, I just like, I probably didn't say that. Yeah, probably. Here we are. Jordan said during the seminar that enjoyment and exercise has the biggest impact on endurance. Oh, that's true. I did say that coming back to lifting after a long layoff, I found it difficult to find enjoyment with weights that are so far below when I used to be able to do any suggestions or resources on how to start enjoying trening again. I don't have any resources on this. It'd be great if we had a book. It was like enjoying trening. Like, it just like a whole book. I'm like how to make starting enjoyment. Yeah, starting starting starting, starting pleasure. You know, just, yes. I'm lifting weights very pleasurable. Yeah, that's gross. So this is a good start. StartinGHedonism. Yeah, a way to use my weights to, yeah. I actually do have a strategy for this because this happened to me. I did cross it for like eight months. Yeah, I experimented with the dark, dark arts. And I lost a substantial amount of weight in a substantial amount of strength. I'm not sure those two things were related because I wasn't really lifting weights. During that time, I was doing a bunch of Olympic lifts. And it just, I wasn't squatting, eventually. You're deadlifting. Yeah, I'm a weight went down as well. So when I came back, I remember I squatted. I used Leah's belt. This is how like, yeah, kick kick. Yes, yes. This is how, this is how like, kick kick I was. That was a hundred. I remember I came back from Australia. And I was 84 kilos, 85 kilos, which is like all of 185 pounds or something like that. And I usually as belt and I squat at 180 kilos, which is 396 for a hard triple, a hard triple. To be clear, I've benched that before for a triple. So like things were bad. And I was like, what? So I'd recently decided to likEQuit doing CrossFit because I didn't like it. And then, yeah, so enjoyment was low. And I was like, I was going back to powerlifting because I love that. And then I did powerlifting for one day. And I was like, no, where's all my strength? So the strategy that I used on the exercises that I had a lot of history with. So squat bench deadlift, I changed the rep range to things I didn't have experience with. So for example, I'd never really done squats or deadlift for sets of eight and ten. I stuck to mostly those. And I picked different exercise variations that I had very little experience with. And previously, so that I didn't have this like historical like performance, a barometer that I kept going up against. So I did that. And honestly, I remember it was like six to eight weeks after I came back. I was within about 10% of my normal strength levels. And so I was happy again and could tren like relatively regularly. Benefits of this are kind of twofold. One, you don't hate yourself every time you go to the gym and think, what was me? This is the worst I've ever performed in my whole life. And then benefit number two is that you're sort of slow, gradually retrening yourself to do a different thing. So remember, I had been doing CrossFit for eight months. I was not squatting, benching and deadlifting like I was during my normal powerlifting trening. Had I just switched back to powerlifting with no sort of bridge in between that could have potentially been problematic for me. However, I had this sort of on-ramp where I was able to sort of get back to the normal trening. And so that worked out pretty well for me. So generally that's how I recommend folks do that. If they have a specific goal that's different than their normal that we've been trening for for a while. And then they want to go back to a previous type of trening. I put program this like GPP-related bridge where the rep ranges are different. The exercise selection is different so they don't have this like, again, historical thing that they'recomparing themselves against each single time. You can do that a lot of different ways. You can do that with rep ranges. You can do it with adding chains or bands or different barbells or different sort of range of motion or tempo. There's a whole different things, a lot of different things you can use. I just actually dealt with this very scenario although not entirely due to a lift off. I had a patient of mine who I have been working with for a little while who was recently diagnosed with cancer. And specifically he was diagnosed with prostate cancer and one of the standard treatments for prostate cancer is what's called endrogen deprivation therapy where you basically get put on testosterone blockers. You can think of it like that. You get like chemically castrated basically to prevent endrogen stimulating the prostate cancer from growing anymore. So we're intentionally makinGHim hypogonaddle and he was observing that his performance was going down in the gym. When you're truly hypogonaddle, then sure we would expect that your performance is going to be altered with that. And he was having some distress over this because he pulled 500 at national last year and now he's like I'm seeing my numbers start to change. And so what should I do? I'm not really loving trening when I'm weaker. And I just said we need to change the metrics of performance here. We need to pick some different exercises, right? Rather than a competition squat and a competition deadlift than a positive bench press, we need to pick some other things that you haven't done before. Give you some new opportunities to PR, right? So now that if you're going to be doing pulse squats and deficit deadlifts and stuff like that, every time you tren is going to be a PR. And so we change the strategy and he's now fully on board with that idea and trening with some different things. So again, same deal so that he doesn't have this constant prior performance to compare himself to. So that's what we did with him. So effectively the same thing, just do different things and you'll have less of a metric of comparison. Yeah, just change the goalpost. Boom.

=== FILE: How to Talk to Patients About Sarcopenia： Motivational Interviewing & Setting Meaningful Goals [VZfH19wmUM8].txt ===

 All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Well, now that we know why sarcopenia occurs, let's talk about what to do about it. Now, Austin, how do you normally speak to your patients with sarcopenia about management? You, you know, did the assessment, you got them up out of bed, you had them do the sit to stand maybe. And you're like, dang, this person is much weaker than they, they should be. Uh, how do you talk to them about this? Yeah. Much like conversations around nonspecific low back pain, where I never use the term nonspecific low back pain in these situations, I also never really tend to use the term sarcopenia. Yeah. I basically, do the assessment. And I, again, try to get a sense of what the person's day-to-day life and function are like and what their goals might be to improve that function if they have those goals or what their general health goals are. And I basically try to find an in into the conversation in real time where I can tie what are going to be my recommendations for managing sarcopenia to something meaningful to the person, right? So it's kind of like when we have conversations about back pain or osteoarthritis or whatever, you know, condition might be ailing them, what do you want to be able to do? And then are you open to negotiating a plan that might help you get to that goal? So making it meaningful to the person. And so it's the same thing here. If the person has no goals or interest or aspiration in improving their health or function, then I can talk to them all day about sarcopenia or that it's increasing their risk of all sorts of things and it's I'm going to not make any meaningful progress. But if I can get a sense of what the person's life is like, what they want to be able to do that they can't do now, or if they have a particular health goal and tie it to the very demonstrable impaired function that I just showed them by virtue of the fact that they were unable to get up out of a chair, then I might be able to kind of weave a narrative that makes sense to them to where they, you know, by working on that and improving that ability, they will then regain or build the ability to achieve the goal that they had in mind the meaningful activity or improve their health in the way that mattered to them most. So I know that was a very high level kind of general description, but that's really the approach that I take. There's not a formula to this. It's one of those things where having more experience with having these conversations and the process of motivational interviewing, you end up getting more comfortable listening to people and you can kind of in real time hear these little threads that they're offering up to you that, oh, I might tug on that a little bit and see if that ends up being a useful lead point into this process of, you know, here's a way that we can intervene or something that we can negotiate a plan that ties into something that you care about and that you're willing to, you know, have some buy-in. And if I have a family member there or a spouse there or a sibling or a child, somebody who is able to kind of be present as well to listen to this conversation, maybe to, you know, contribute to the conversation, maybe to offer to join into this process, that's another way that I sometimes do this in practice. And this applies to general exercise counseling as well. I remember recently having a gentleman in the hospital for new onset atrial fibrillation and he had obesity and he drank, you know, too much alcohol and he had just some metabolic syndrome and various risk factors for developing a fib. And I had this whole conversation and he was unaware that any of those things contributed to his atrial fibrillation. And he really wanted to, you know, address it because of various, you know, life circumstances that I'll leave out for now, but his wife was there as well and she was all about it. And they were both, you know, willing to, you know, leave the hospital and act on this, especially knowing that by intervening on these things, it would impact something meaningful to them while also reducing his risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation. So that's kind of the key method that I would apply. And so recommendations for people who are wanting to get into it really has to do with getting some experience and practice with motivational interviewing. And then if you have the really solid understanding of the condition that you're trying to intervene on, then you can kind of weave those things together in real time much more effectively. Yeah. Yeah. That to me is where the fund of knowledge stuff, where, you know, the pathophysiology, you know, what the person, you know, the risk factors and so on and so forth. You can take that with your fund of knowledge with respect to exercise prescription, weave them together and bada bing, bada boom. Yeah. That's a 100% success rate. That's how that works. We wish.

=== FILE: How-To Address Pain Without Being A Nocebo [9LXK_V9GcLg].txt ===

What would you recommend for managing slash receiving feedback on pain in the clinical world so that's not to ignore patient's perceptions but still maximize the rehab process? I can start. Alright. So this was the reference where I was talking about how if you're a coach and your coach and somebody who has some discomfort, say in their back, after every rep or after every set, you're asking, how's your back feeling? How's your back feeling? How's your back feeling? Constantly drawing more attention to that area because we know that a tensional focus plays a big role in people's experience of pain. And so I would make the recommendation to not do that when you're coaching people. This isn't to swing the other way into say just to ignore any symptom that they report but you don't necessarily need to go fishing for that. In a rehab context, if you were a skilled clinician and observer and communicator with your patient, then you can observe what they're doing and then just ask them what their thoughts are. After a given set, how'd that go? Do you feel comfortable increasing the load? Something like that. And given that you've had the discussion, the education process ahead of time, saying, we're going to work in a range of tolerable symptoms and aim to progress gradually from there, then you can get that feedback. They can volunteer it to you rather than you go and fishing for it from them. So to the point where if they're feeling comfortable and okay, then you can celebrate that and say, that's awesome, that's great news. You're feeling good, that's a good sign. We can keep progressing in this process. Whereas if they volunteer that this is pretty uncomfortable or I'm concerned about this or this is freaking me out or I don't want to go up anymore, then you can respect that and maybe have a discussion around it and modify the plan accordingly rather than constantly going again, fishing and drawing their attention to an area that their attention may not necessarily be on. Focusing their attention more on the task and celebrating the victory of that went well. I think is probably the way that I would go in a clinical context. I recognize, however, that in the clinical world there's some tendency and rule, potentially even rules and requirements to get patients pain scores on a scale of 1 to 10 and that can be annoying. I don't need to do a pain score on a scale of 1 to 10 after every set either. So I would do the bare minimum on that front as far as getting your pain scores and then just focusing on the task and not unnecessarily drawing attention to where it doesn't need to be. I think the only, just to have practical sense, I actually don't recommend that most coaches ask about it. If you notice somebody who's demonstrating pain-related behavior which during a lift would be slow down, that occurs during the descent of a squat, for example, or hesitation during a particular lift that is abnormal because you've worked with this person before. You can ask, hey, was that painful for you? Or you can ask them even a more open-ended question, like what's going on? Just to get them to start talking about it. But my general recommendation is to not ask, does that hurt after any set? The only time I think that's appropriate is if you're trying new stuff, to try to work around an existing injury and you're on the fly, trying new things to see if they're still sensitive to that particular movement. Someone had low back pain like Leah when we were trying to gather in Santa Cruz quite frequently. If she had a low back pain, we do a mid-shin rack pull and after she did a set of how that feel, how that feel is the right question there. And then if that didn't, she said, I still, still pretty sensitive, it's still a pretty good. We try another thing and I would say, again, how does that feel? Something like that. I think the big thing that people, I don't know if they feel this way, but I certainly think it gets perceived this way, it's like you have to be perfect with this pain stuff. And if you mess up, dang it, I ruined it. That's not the case. We all make mistakes. We all say the wrong things sometimes. Important part is, the important part is to not compound an error with another error. Like, oh, did that hurt? Oh, no, I said it. I said the H word. I'm saying, now you're freaking out about it and they're like, what? And so some of that actually gets trensferred to them and they're like, they start feeling guilty about having pain. The normal human experience. And then the stuff can start snowballing. And so I think it's just like, yeah, look, we all make mistakes and don't use the right language all the time. We have certain goals for how we communicate and let's try to do the best we can. But in the coaching setting, I think it just plan on sayinGHow does that feel. If you notice something strenge. Yeah.

=== FILE: How-To Assess Self Efficacy [vRP021pAg24].txt ===

Music Question number two, how do you assess self-efficacy during your initial evaluation? Oh, this is a great question. Well, you just ask them what's your self-efficacy in it? No, this is usually like, huh? So, barring any proprietary methods like that pamphleter team, which I've never used personally. I just, you know, found it on the internet to torrent it, just to see what it was. Really interesting. But some of thEQuestions are, can be useful or the styles of questions. So, admittedly, in barbell medicine, and so, that's what I do now. It's my full time job. This is not something I need to usually directly assess. Being like, to try to figure out, does this person have resources, skills, like, you know, to go out there, you know, you like, you like, to go out there, and, you know, try to take ownership of their own health and the role that they play in their own health. But, in residency, you know, a question I would often ask people is, you know, what do you view your role in all of this to be? So, if we're talking about a disease status or like a new diagnosis or there are long-term chronic disease, like, so what is your role in this, in this sort of process? It is a question, like, a loaded question because a person might be like, either I've never thought about it or it immediately, like, I don't feel great about that. But that's not necessarily a bad thing because if they feel sort of bad about it or responsible, that's what I want them to feel responsible for. I don't want to feel bad. I want them to feel like I do take responsibility for my own health and I feel like I'm in control. That's those are signs of self-efficacy. If someone were to say, I don't feel like I play any role in this, I don't have any responsibility. That's the opposite. That's low self-efficacy. And so assessing what resources skills, tools, somebody else has available to them is a whole, another line of questions. And so going in with more open-ended questions specific to the sort of behavioral change you're targeting. So if it's exercise, be like, okay, what sort of exercise would you like to do, what sort of strategies do you have to become more physically active, what sort of access do you have? And sort of then you're starting to assess like how far people have gone on their own. And that, again, gives you a clue how much self-efficacy to the half. If someone was super motivated, ready to change their behavior, and had a high level self-efficacy, I probably wouldn't be seeing them for to change their physical activity patterns because they'd already done it. Right? So I'm trying to find the hang-up. Right? Where do I need to come in and either provide if it's knowledge, okay? If it's additional strategies, okay? If it's additional resources, okay? It just, you're trying to kind of work down that rabbit hole to figure out where you come in, rather than starting from the beginning and not going through any of that and saying, here's the plan. Yeah, assessing self-efficacy. I think emerges naturally just from having a conversation with somebody. I presented during the pain lecture a bunch of examples of the kind of open-ended questions that will ask people during this evaluation for almost anything, whether it's medical, pain related, et cetera. You know, what do you think is going on, what are your biggest concerns, have you dealt with this before, what did you do then, what do you know, what do you think is going on, et cetera. And through all that, just listening to their answers, you can get a feel for where somebody said is that was something. There are certain validated questionnaires for self-efficacy and certain context. There's, for example, a pain self-efficacy questionnaire, PSEQ. But once you start down that rabbit hole, it is easy to get way too excited about questionnaires. You can usEQuestionnaires and scales to evaluate everything. There's a Tampa scale for Canisia, FObia, there's a catastrophizing scale, there's a pain self-efficacy questionnaire, there's questionnaires for literally everything you can think of backpack and, you know, all the, there's way too many of them. And eventually your whole encounter with somebody is them filling out questions. So I think that's something that probably more useful in my opinion for research purposes to actually measure things like differences in self-efficacy over the course of a particular intervention. If that's what the study wanted to look at in real world practice, I don't think you need a questionnaire to do that. I think you need to, you know, be a human and interact with another human and have a conversation and get a sense of where they're at, where they're coming from. The downside is that takes time, right? And so you need to be in a clinical environment where you actually have the time to do that. So that can be tricky. Where's the AI self-efficacy? Yeah.

=== FILE: How-To Avoid Burnout？ [NQUEiQ-WQV4].txt ===

How do you guys personally take care of your mental emotional energy? I think that anybody who's involved, particularly the healthcare fields, you know, has there's a difficult balance between like taking care of yourself, the person and then caring for others. But you went into this field to take care of others. And some days are harder than others and you give more than you get and other days you get more than you give. As far as how an individual needs to approach their own particular needs for like a mental health standpoint, I think services that are underutilized are mental health services. If you feel better talking to a counselor or some sort of psychiatrist that can all be useful, me personally. I have found reasonably good sort of balance if you will by trying to maintain a set of boundaries that works for me, meaning that I can it's pretty easy to get kind of really involved in somebody else's sort of like this is their journey and this is how I'm helping them. And these are all their issues that we're kind of working out. But I have to also step back and understand that's not my particular situation and addition, it's maybe not okay if they're emailing me five or six times a day. And so creating those boundaries where hey, this is the expectations that we're setting as far as communication, like frequency, style, what I can be responsible for, but I think overall having some sort of boundaries, like professionals and boundaries are useful. I think also kind of understanding the field that you're getting into kind of expect some of this and then using like mental health services would also be useful. Like people need counselors need counselors, it's very underutilized, this is underutilized. And then I don't know that there's any reliable like a specific approach that I think universally works for all folks. So finding your kind of stuff that makes it viable for you can be useful. IMean burnout is super common in medicine and, you know, among some specialties more than others, I get to see horrible things very frequently. And burnout is common around me as well among kind of fellow clinicians. So I definitely agree with everything that Jordan said with respect to professional boundaries outside of work. For example, if you feel like you're having issues from a mental health standpoint using those kind of resources, as far as my own personal habits on this front, this is a big part of why people say, how is it that you've gone like a decade and missed one week of trening? It's like, well, this is why IMake sure that I tren because for me personally, that is my most useful way to maintain some kind of control over my life, some aspect of consistency, something that I enjoy that I can look forward to whenever I do end up getting out of the hospital, whether it's earlier late, I plan to tren regardless and don't skip that session, even, you know, if it's 10 or 11 at night and did that plenty of times in residency because that gave me a sense of continued control over my life. That's a big part is if you feel like you're not in control, right? So loss of self-efficacy over your situation, loss of autonomy, that can be a big deal. And then similarly, you know, if you're a coach, biting off more than you can chew can be a big problem, right? In terms of your client load, for example, something that you actually do have control over. There was a period of time when I was in residency where I was doing similarly multiple jobs, like I do right now, but with respect to residency, I did not have control over my life. I had to be in the hospital certain times and responsible for whatever was going on there at that particular time and then I had these other things, coaching and, you know, some telemedicine stuff I was doing outside that I did have some control over, but I definitely bit off more than I could chew. And I like correct, pretty hard around that period of time, recognize that I bit off way more than I could chew, but at the same time, I knew that I was still trening and I knew that it was temporary and that it wasn't going to be like that forever, right? And so ultimately, fortunately, I was able to get through that and have other things that I can kind of look forward to and enjoy, but I've definitely, I'm currently in a period of time where I'm actually trying to scale back a little bit of how much I'm doing because like, do I really need to be doing this much right now as far as all the things that I tackle and work on at the same time and the very clear and obvious answer is no despite the fact that I still do them. So definitely easier said than done and I don't have it perfect at either. But everything Jordan said as well as paying attention to, you know, your workload to the extent that you have control over it, if you have more control over it, that's awesome and scaling back if you need to and my bias is definitely trening as far as some measure of consistency and consistency and something I do have control over that may be something different for you. Take advantage of that, whatever that may be.

=== FILE: How-To Deal with CNS Fatigue [vODrvwfYltw].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Alright next question, what's the low down on CNS fatigue? It's like a, it's a sign-fil-thing. What's the deal with CNS fatigue? Worst bit ever. That's well. Worst or best. Is it even possible for a novice or early intermediate to obtain CNS fatigue? Yes. Or is general fatigue not the same thing as central fatigue? Due to poor recovery, sleep hydration, nutrition, often mistaken as CNS fatigue. They're not, IMean, you can have them set, you know, one influences the others. I don't know that I would differentiate the two. So let's just say what fatigue is, particularly with respect to exercise, the way we explain fatigue is like the negative psychological and physiological outcomes of physical activity that ultimately reduce your performance potential and those are going up against the positive sort of psychological and physiological outcomes from physical activity which would be fitness adaptations and that balance effectively gives you your performance potential on a given day. CNS fatigue, central fatigue, as it's more appropriately discussed in the literature, is effectively things that are current at the level of the brain and spinal cord that modulate force production. So one way to test for if you have central fatigue is experimentally. Experiment yet. You don't actually do. Yeah, look, man, if you got a battery and small electronics, don't do this at home. Yeah, we gotta say that. So effectively you have people go to failure on like late extensions, for example and then you have that you stick these electrodes in their quads and then you shock them and see like can they actually produce more force? And if so, that person had central fatigue effectively the brain and spinal cord through a bunch of different processes are tamping down the amount of force production that the muscles actually have access to. It's got like this protective mechanism kind of thing in a very simplified, very simplified sort of way. On the other hand, if you put the those electrodes in, you shock them and no additional force production has occurred. Effectively central fatigue is not the limiting factor, but peripheral fatigue is a limiting factor. So the muscles are tapped out. Yeah, so either muscles are damaged, there's a accumulation of stuff that's prevented from contract, depletion of energy substrates, also to stuff. All right, so that's the load out on like what central fatigue is and as far as is it possible for a person who's relatively new to trening to have central fatigue? Yes, it's possible for everyone. And in fact, I would argue that any type of physical activity has some cost associated with it. Now, it might be minimal compared to the fitness adaptations that you're getting. It might be minimal compared to your previous level of trening and it might you might not notice it particularly if you're not testing yourself or requiring yourself to perform at a certain level. But it's still there. It'd be very difficult to engage in any physical activity that like is somewhat challenging at any level and not have central fatigue as far as how long that lasts. And the effect it has on subsequent days performance depends on what physical activity and what series of physical activities you've been doing and how well trened you are, how you can dissipate, how you can tolerate that. The last part I'll just address before us in just outwokes me on this is could you have a higher level of central fatigue due to lack of sleep, reduced hydration or impaired nutrition status? Those things are all integrated at cortical, so cerebral cortex level areas of the brain and also sub-portugal levels. So yes, to basically the brain's taking into consideration all of these inputs, integrating them together and saying, hey, here's your performance potential that's again very simplified view of how we conceptualize this sort of fatigue, performance potential fitness adaptation interplay. But yeah, if you're not, if you're, you know, haven't slept well and if you're actually dehydrated or and not you, volmic and if you are fasted or other stuff like that or your blood sugar is low or your muscle glycogen levels are low, sure. Yeah, you're going to have likely to have an impaired performance, but you probably can't predict those things on the front end of a trening session either. What I'm getting is that thinking about these, like you just heard me say all those things, you're like, well, I didn't only slept seven hours and I didn't have my normal two liters of water today and then like my meal is normally time 90 minutes exactly before I start working out enough, 120 minutes. So I think we think those things are going to be a good day today as far as like their overall impact on your like performance level and I wouldn't expect them to have a substantial impact unless there's a substantial change in them that again, ultimately, manifests as like last week with food poisoning. Yeah, turns out you don't need to eat, don't need to eat. I didn't eat for like two and a half days. IManaged to keep some fluids down, but not much and sleep was impaired and you know, my performance was still higher than the week prior all that day and then a few sessions later, everything was back to normal, but then I actually happened to feel worse in the gym that day and it was like, you know, it doesn't make sense. Yeah, it doesn't make sense if you assume that all these variables are like very linearly and predictably related to things. Sure, and also don't consider the other complexities of performance that likely outweigh these. Yeah, yeah, the way I would kind of comment this question is, you know, breaking things down, for example, into like central fatigue, peripheral fatigue and all these different variables, that reflects the way that humans go about trying to understand things, which is reductionism. Right? Sure. Yeah. So, you know, we try to break things down into their component parts, understand all their individual component parts, and then, you know, in theory, we try to just like mash it all back together and to say, I get it. Gotcha. And then that almost never works. In terms of giving you such a good understanding that you can use it for predictive, prognostic purposes, right? It's useful for us to understand these concepts of central and peripheral fatigue and things like that. But for from a practical standpoint, for a trenee, like the person who presumably wrote this question, and they're like, is it possible for a novice or intermediate to obtain CNS fatigue, as if it's like something they should be worried about? I view fatigue kind of like pain, kind of like hunger, kind of like a bunch of other things. It's this experience, right? Fatigue is an experience that we all have. And it's not super useful to break it down into these component parts in the same way that like if I have, if I experience some pain, and my question is going to be like, am I having like, you know, central pain, am I having central sense of pain? Am I having no susceptive pain right now? Am I, you know, it's not that useful because our approach is going to be similar in terms of, you know, managing the energy, paying situations for most people in this situation in terms of fatigue, you know, say you've go in and your performance is not where you want it to be. And you're like, oh god, is this central fatigue? Is this, no, it's like, I'm just going to ideally, auto regulate, adjust my loads for the day, get the trening dose that I want to get out of the session and move on with my life. So I don't think it's worth, I have literally never in the course of a trening session thought about, do I have for, yes, is my CNS for I today? It's just like, no, my performance is just down today. And for whatever reason, just be like that. Yeah, no, I think, IMean, that's, I like that perspective and then I think the only utility in doing the reductionist thing is because a lot of people will talk about CNS fatigue. Yeah. And so it's like, I will now you know at home what it is and like, it's good for understanding sure not so much for application day to day in trening. Yeah, people. Yeah, when people say my CNS is fried that there's, there's a lot of undoing that you'd have to it. Yeah. I would rather you just say, I'm tired. I'm tired. Yeah. I'm not feeling it today. Yeah. It's like I played golf today, right? And I've been having, I've been playing the golf of my life recently. And so at some point it was bound to stop. Yes. It's just, it do be like that. And that's today. That was today. I didn't play poorly, but it just, you know, there's some inherent luck there. Yeah. There's a lot of time between when the ball leaves the club face and lands and you're not a control of any of that. Yeah. You know, didn't go my way. But the whole thing was like, I wasn't trying to wait, what's going on here? Like, do I am I tired? Am I, we're right this time? And while you're still going to go, just play. Yeah. Similar to, you know, when we talk about pain, somebody has back pain, they're like, oh, is it my facet? Is it my disc? Is it my ligament? Is it my QL? Is it my so-a? Is it what? It's like, yeah. Not worth worrying about. Yes, I'm glad. Some days it do be like that. Yeah.

=== FILE: How-To Determine Good Technique [wjAf5jgYMog].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Next question, how to pick a particular technique for exercise. So this question was a long example about how there might be different. In the optimal position to activate more muscle mass, I could pick a particular technique for a given exercise. Again, to make this more generalizable, I go back to that reps model. So you're trying to pick a particular movement pattern or a style for an individual to perform an exercise and it should be repeatable, meaning that they can do it over and over again. Yes, there's a rep to rep variability. We accept that. Probably even better than trying to do it with this rigidly perfectionist kind of tendency. But they can repeat it, meaning that the reps look somewhat similar. So they're not doing two different exercises, you know, rep to rep. It's efficient. People will tend to self-organize into like an efficient way for them to move. This is most well studied in running, where people will pick this a gate and stride length and everything else that suits, seems to suit their body, their mechanics or strengths, et cetera. But otherwise you'd pick a style for a resistance trening that you are efficient in meaning that there's not a lot of extreneous movement where you're applying force in directions that don't help you lift the weight. And it meets all the points of performance for that movement. So whatever arbitrary sort of points you'd like to make. So for the squat, let's say you want to squat below parallel. You've made that determination. You don't want to do it at a slow tempo. You want to move the thing as quickly as possible. You want to do it with the bar on your back. You don't want the bar to move. All of these things are, you know, you're determining their importance. So they arEQuite arbitrary, unless there's a competition specific standard. But in powerlifting, for example, the only thing is you've got to walk the way down under control. You've got to get the squat command with lock knees. You have to squat below parallel and wait for the recommend. If the barbell happens to move up your back, can confirm they will still give you white lights for that. So again, points of performance are somewhat arbitrarily defined. Now that's just from a strength perspective. If there could be high-purchasing specific points of performance that you want to include, if it's a conditioning mode, all sorts of stuff, right? But in any case, those are the things I think about when actually picking or trying to move to somebody's technique towards what I would consider better versus worse. And so again, that's the rep model that I use. So I don't know the, I think that's like my, it's like kind of where I like approach this. And then just basically looking at the individuals movement and having a conversation with them about the points of performance that either are determined by the sport that they're participating in or what they're giving a bunch of credence to based on their own preferences. And then, yeah, coaching. IMean, you're just, you're looking at it into the extent that you are reliably able to discern lapses in efficiency or efficiency errors. And then if somebody's not me, certain point of performance, yeah, trying to correct those. But that's how I'm picking a particular exercise style. What I would add to that is that, you know, the technique that somebody uses to execute a movement is also likely to vary over time. We talked about this in our last one a little bit as well. And so that does a few things. It helps us get away from perfectionism, particularly upfront, recognizing that this is going to be a process. The other thing is that it helps us get away from trying to predict in advance like what my individual, you know, preferred styles going to be on day one. I think that there are some basic, what you're calling points of performance to borrow some terminology. Sure. From folks, so like the most basic one on the squad is like, I would prefer that people stay balanced throughout the whole movement of the squad. I prefer they not be way back on their heels and then rocking up onto the toes. And that's like a super basic example of something, right? It helps to be repeatable and efficient. Yeah. And that's exactly it. There are a whole bunch of other things that IMight look for like to see, you know, somebody do or not, again, depending on the goal of the movement. So if they want to go to, you know, a parallelity meet, then those standards what I'm looking for might change, even within a parallelity meet. Sure. They're telling me I'm going to go to SPF. I'm like, you're good. Yeah, yeah, you're good. Yeah, you're good. Yeah, you're good. Yeah, you're good. Yeah, you're good. Yeah. But like you said, you know, hypertrophy might come with different considerations, as far as you want to make sure that the target muscle that you're wanting to grow bigger is, getting receiving as much stimulus as it can. You want to be taking it through sufficient range of motion, although there's even evidence for some partial range of motion. I've heard three benefits too. So this stuff does get complicated rather quickly. I think that there should be, you know, a degree of comfort. It should be able to meet the task demands, the task goals, whether it be for competition or for health or something like that. All these things are kind of dynamic. And they're just recognizing that it's an evolution. It's a process over time. There's tons of experimentation. You'll see some people out there who tren and perform at very high levels who have technique that you might view and say, man, that doesn't look like what I've been taught is optimal. Sure. Yeah. People high-barring in-pile, if you meet some setting-world records, don't they know that if they just move the bar down, that they, it's like, you know, that's a complicated process. And so I wouldn't necessarily impose these rigid kind of ideas on people up front, rather pick a few basic things to target things like balance in the squat, for example. Bounce in the deadlift is another one that you can work on, bar path in the bench press is probably like one of the big ones that we tend to emphasize early on. And then there's a whole lot of experimentation from that point forward. Some people in the bench are going to gravitate towards a wider grip. Some towards a narrower grip. The squat, some are going to gravitate towards a wider stance, a narrower stance, knees more forward, knees more back, more bent over. And it's not all something that is exclusively determined by their segment lengths because there are people who are going to think that is more to it than jump. That's a piece of it. There's more to it than that too in terms of what ends up being people's preferred style that they can tren most consistently and use for adaptation and do the best with over time. Yeah, that's another reason why we like having a fairly high amount of exercise variation within our programming, particularly for those who are relatively new to trening or very far out from a competition because it's like, you don't need to decide right now. Like this is the style, this is the specific type of squat or deadlift, a band that you're doing. And by exposing you to different ones, we're working on that efficiency and you're awareness of your body in space and we're working on exposing you to maybe different ways to move that you might say, that one was good. Yeah, I like that right now. Yeah. Five years from now, you might not like that. Cool.

=== FILE: How-To Develop Healthy Habits in Youth [mNkT_bsUHFg].txt ===

How can we do a better job of framing exercise and diet in a positive life for our youth? For example, it's somewhat common practice for parents to not let their children leave the dinner table until they've finished all their vegetables. Another example of this would be coaches making their athletes run as a form of punishment. These experiences may frame healthy eating and exercise as a way that is synonymous with suffering and discomfort. How can we improve these psychosocial variables? Nice. Early and or address them with adults that have already met these experiences. Or lived these experiences. Excuse me. I picked some hard ones this time. It's just that I don't necessarily agree with the premises. So for example, I don't know that one may necessarily associate this with a form of punishment. He might but depends on other stuff. I don't know, was your parent yelling you don't run? Or like, hey, let's go run around the house. Let's go do a lap. Maybe that's your suggestion. The way that the recommendation or the way it's framed. Yes, it does. Exactly. So for example, I'm not pretending to give anybody a parent-day advice. There's a few people. Peter of us should do that. Parent-day advice, relationship advice. Look, I'm not your doctor for that. I think so one, I always think that the parents leading by example probably makes for a better environment, especially for making recommendations or suggestions to their kids because mom and dad are already doing it. So you should do it too. And then also if you're going, if you're needing to modify some of the behaviors that the child is engaged in, especially with respect to the diet or activity, the way that you're recommending them should be ideally into a form of positive way or affirming way rather than do this in a negative light because I think there are too many risks there with potentially future psychological distress around those actions. But trying to get kids to eat vegetables, for example. So one, as a family should be eating vegetables regularly and involve the kid in preparing the vegetables and picking the vegetables and how to, you know, which way will shell you prepare them? All that stuff is useful because then the kids got a buy into these vegetables like, look, I help make these and then they're probably going to eat them. With respect to being active, like, hey, do you want most, especially, I know the parents I know that tren, if they tren at home, their kids want to come out into the gym and play around with mom and dad who are lifting in the gym. So exposing them rather early on can't be a positive experience rather than say, hey, get out of my hair, go run around the house. Not saying that that's how people do it, but I think that leading by example and then also involving the kid in the process, like whatever process can be useful because then they have a bigger buy in. Oh, you just got a home gym, rebuild the home gym, like, yeah, let's set it up together. You know, we're sure this goes. All the stuff that's sort of stuff can be can be useful as far as adults that have already had these experiences. I think you're going to sus that out during this, like, the sort of interview process, you know, when you're taking into client, asking them, you know, what sort of barriers do they have or feelings or thoughts do they have about changing the dietary patterns. And if something specific comes up, that's where you're going to get there. But I don't routinely see that to be honest. I have, you know, the closest I get is people say, I don't like vegetables. Yeah. And then when I explore that, it's usually due to, like, I don't like the way they taste. I don't, you know, and then I'm not really sure how to prepare them in a way that tastes tasty. Let me just go down and kind of try things. If I could give advice to parents who have kids, it'd be to get them to be an active and is many different ways as possible. And the best way to do that is not only giving them choices and opportunities, but also leading by example. So if mom and dad lift or otherwise are active, like, they have slightly likely the kids going to want to join in on that, it's just the normal thing to do. Yeah. I don't have a ton to add to that. IMean, that's kind of why I included this question as mainly to convey the message of leading by example is going to be kind of the main thing that I would suggest here. For adults who have already been through this, refer back to the standard behavior change talk that we did, all the same things, what do I there as far as how you work with people to change their behaviors? That's the idea. Did you add live? No. You know where my dad and my mom met at the gym? Yep. My mom was in a robix instructor. My dad was playing racquetball. And apparently, short shorts meets short shorts. Nice. Yeah, that's how I came to be.

=== FILE: How-To Exercise After A Hysterectomy (OB⧸GYN Doc Answers) [ogf3ZpZgXEc].txt ===

 nviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia hysterectomy may be performed at the same time as a hysterectomy for certain reasons. If a woman's ovaries are not removed, there are no long-term hormonal consequences of undergoing a hysterectomy. An important caveat is that the ovaries have blood supply from two main blood vessels. A hysterectomy necessarily involves cutting through one of these blood vessels, the ones that exist between the uterus and the ovaries. This can sometimes lead to a temporary decline in ovarian hormones until normal blood flow is compensated through the primary ovarian blood supply. Most women do not experience persistent or perceivable symptoms when the ovaries are left in place. A small fraction do experience symptoms from these hormone fluctuations, although it tends to be temporary. The most common reasons I perform hysterectomies are for abnormal uterine bleeding, for uterine fibroids, and for pelvic pain. The next important consideration is how the hysterectomy will be performed. So this surgery can be performed through the vagina, where there are no incisions in the abdomen. It can be performed laparoscopically, which is done through three to five small incisions on the abdomen. Or it can be done through a single larger abdominal incision. Think like a c-section incision at the bikini line. There are several factors that are considered between the patient and her surgeon to determine which route is the best route for her. Regardless of the surgical route, though, all women who have undergone a total hysterectomy will have a five to eight centimeter internal incision at the top of the vagina, where the cervix used to sit. And that's closed with a dissolvable suture. Most patients who have undergone a hysterectomy can go home the same day as their surgery if it was uncomplicated. Now to the main focus of the question. What kind of activity restrictions should be observed after hysterectomy and for how long? It's important to note that every woman's pain and recovery experience can vary after a hysterectomy. Those with healing abdominal incisions may experience more discomfort in the two to three weeks following surgery. Regardless of the type of surgery they have, though, women who are given liberal or no activity restrictions do just as well, if not marginally better, than those who are given strict and specific restrictions. Evidence actually supports the approach of listening to your body by scaling and modulating your activity types and effort by your baseline abilities and also the pain and discomfort feedback you're feeling with consideration to whether or not you're requiring strong pain medications. So a great example is advising against taking a maximal effort squat, for example, because you've just taken 10 milligrams of oxycodone. One activity that bears mentioning where this doesn't apply, though, is vaginal penetrative intercourse or really any activity that involves insertion of a product or an object into the vagina. Just like you wouldn't subject yourself to blunt forces against a healing row of stitches anywhere else on your body, it's important to remember that concealed and healing incision at the top of the vagina, also known as the vaginal cuff. And its specified healing time should be respected, no matter how well you may be feeling. It's important to await a vaginal exam with a surgeon six to eight weeks after surgery to ensure proper closure and healing of the cuff before resuming intercourse. Unfortunately, there are no great data that guide the return to resistance training after hysterectomy. My recommendation is informed by the last decade practicing as a surgeon and also my experiences as a powerlifter who trained with RPE. I advise delaying return to moderate to high intensity resistance training until the vaginal cuff is cleared, although lower intensity activities such as walking, recumbent biking, and seated upper body exercises are often acceptable and encouraged in the early period after surgery. This is all in addition to activities of daily living. The post-operative judgment of the surgeon of when a woman can resume intercourse can be used to correspond with a return to progressively heavier training. Hope you found this helpful.

=== FILE: How-To Explain Pain to Others [FEsQ70Ci76k].txt ===

What are the most quick and effective analogies you've used to explain pain to patients? The first caveat that I would say here is I typically don't go into these encounters with the aim of explaining pain to a patient. The patient knows what pain is, what it feels like. They're coming to me telling me this hurts. I don't have to tell them what it means to hurt or what hurt is. Rather, I'm there to help them make sense of their experience to understand what it means, what it doesn't mean and what they can do about it if anything. Usually, there are a lot of things that can be done about it. So I think that we need to be cautious about, because, you know, and most of us when we learn a lot of this kind of new-fangled pain stuff that's actually been around for a few decades at this point, you get excited to just kind of like, you know, burst into the exam room and start, you know, telling your patient how it is. It's like the cool kid guy. Oh yeah. Here's what you're feeling in your back and they're like, what? Yeah. Right. So I think first and foremost, in all of these encounters where I'm having these kind of conversations with patients, I'm generally asking them to tell me about what they're experiencing and then I just shut up and let them tell me. And I even do the same thing outside of Musco-Scale pain related issues when I'm in the hospital and the ER, somebody might be coming in with something else that I actually need to admit them to the hospital for and I'm not there to necessarily kick in the door and tell them what's going on. I said, tell me what's going on and I just zip it and let them talk. At some point, I need to start getting more involved in the conversation, but anytime I find myself talking more than the patient is, that's a red flag to me that something's not right. And I tell my residents and students that, particularly when they get to talk into too much, you should be probably talking a little bit less. I want to hear more from them. With that said, once it gets to the point where I've assessed the patients understanding of what this pain means, then that may be a place where I can kind of confront some of those beliefs and aim to redirect those a little bit. So if their belief is, yeah, I have this pain in my back when I've been over and I think it, you know, every time I have that pain, it means that my joints are grinding away against one another and that's why I'm having pain. Well, that's something that I probably need to correct. I need to nudge that in a different direction. Otherwise, when I ask them to go and bend over and exercise, to pick up a load off the floor or something like that, then that's a situation where that interpretation where they're like, oh, no, my joints are grinding together. I can't do this. This is unsafe. I can't time I should use camp at my sock on. So I have to alter that meaning, that understanding that they have. So a simple kind of metaphor that you'll hear used a lot in this world is just kind of the idea of pain as an alarm system. That's one where it's very easy to discuss it. Patients can understand that fairly readily. You can also build in the concepts of kind of sensitivity to that, into that discussion and kind of help to alter their understanding of what pain means to guide them on the right path. But I just caution people not to jump to that sort of aggressive over-explaining to soon to early before you've listened to the person and gotten a sense of where they're coming from. Yeah. I think people are trying to have deeper discussions with patients or even other people about pain. The analogy that I like that I think makes the most sense to me as far as the complexity of what's actually going on is that pain is an experience similar to hunger. Like hunger is an experience and that there are many different inputs into why you become hungry and why you have pain. So for example, you don't always just hungry when your body is low on energy or needs calories. So it's not just biological, but there are social inputs. If you see people around you eating, you smell that tasty donut, you see food for example, you might become hungry. There are psychological things that go on that affect your dietary intake or you want to eat or not and that's similar to pain that they're all these sort of different inputs that get integrated into that experience. And so when people start to understand the complexity, then you can further explain this. If people need it, but you don't need to have this in-depth discussion with somebody about pain until you've figured out what their story is and why they're there, why they're not ready to eat it. Well, yeah, exactly. It's not everybody's ready to eat it. So if your friend says, yeah, man, I threw my back out this morning, I'm not going to make it to the gym or whatever. Yeah, so let me tell you about pain. Pain's like hunger, you see. And sometimes you just got to let the big dog eat. It's like, wait, what? It's like, I don't know, I went to a seminar. That's what I took home. It's not what we said. Okay. Yeah. So in general, I kind of wait for somebody to ask me to weigh in on these things before I actually weigh in on them.

=== FILE: How-To Fix Your Stalled Progress (Strength Edition) [idpLoIrxuuo].txt ===

ненене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Today, we're sharing a clip from a recent exclusive Ask Us Anything that Dr. Baraki and I did for the Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers, and we're tackling one of the most frustrating and frankly misunderstood parts of training, the training plateau. Now, before we get into today's episode, I want to run through a little thought experiment with you. This is a very common scenario we see play out almost every single day, and how you answer this says everything about how you understand progression, plateaus in training, and what to do about them. So for background information, you need to be familiar with the fitness fatigue model, which is used to describe how people adapt and respond to exercise. In this model, performing exercise drives a simultaneous increase in both fitness and fatigue levels. Now, there are many exercise variables that can be adjusted to try to generate more fitness and less fatigue, but there are no free lunches here. More exercise will tend to drive more fitness and more fatigue, whereas less exercise will tend to drive less fitness and less fatigue. All right. With that in mind, let's imagine a lifter who squats 310 pounds for three sets of six repetitions at an RPE 8. So two reps left in the tank on week one. He comes back on week two and he squats 315 pounds for three sets of six reps. But this time it was a soul crushing bone on bone RPE 10 for each set. It was maximal. No reps left in the tank. First question is, which day was he stronger? Got your answer yet? Most people will look at the number on the bar and say he was stronger on week two. 315 pounds is more than 310 pounds, right? So he's stronger when he squatted more weight. But the fact that the effort was much harder on week two should influence your interpretation. On week one, he did each set with two reps left in the tank, meaning he could have definitely squatted 315 pounds if he wanted to. Sure, it might have been a little harder, but it's unlikely that adding a measly five pounds would have made it a 10 out of 10 maximal effort like he experienced on week two. If we compare the two efforts, his performance was either roughly the same or lower on week two as it was compared to week one. If he had actually gotten stronger, he should have been able to lift more weight with the same relative effort, meaning that he should have been able to squat 315 pounds for three sets of six all at RPE 8 or two reps left in the tank. But since he didn't actually get stronger in the time between the workouts, perhaps maybe even getting weaker. Some folks might interpret this as a stall or a training plateau. But why? Was it a lack of fitness adaptations, in this case strength, coming online? Or was it too much fatigue to where the lifter couldn't recover before the next session? Now, if we think it's a lack of fitness, we need to increase the signal from the exercise program to drive more strength development. We might need more volume, more intensity, or more something to get the wheels turning. In the short term, this is unlikely to immediately produce results, as the added training will also drive additional fatigue and the body needs some time to adapt or accommodate to it. If we think it's a lack of recovery, adding more work is like trying to put out a fire with gasoline. In that case, we need to pull back and reduce the signal from the exercise program. In the short term, this might work to see an increase in strength, as reducing the amount of training being done can temporarily increase performance as fatigue is dissipated or bled off. This is how most peaking programs work. But if we reduce the exercise over the long term, however, we are getting less of a signal to improve fitness too. In this particular scenario, we don't really know why the lifter didn't get stronger because there's just not enough information. It's only been a week and that just doesn't tell us much. Now, if that was your answer, congratulations, you win. But many people react to a one week stall by panicking. They see the bar speed slow down or the weight stay the same and they immediately want to change their program. They're responding to short term noise and in doing so, they often destroy the long term signal. Adaptations require the consistent application of an appropriately dosed stimulus over a long period of time. You can't rush it and you certainly can't get more out of doing less than you actually need long term. So we decided to stop the guessing game. Today, we're dropping a brand new six part audio series on Barbell Medicine Plus called the Training Plateau Action Plan. And it comes with an actionable PDF to help you determine exactly why you stalled and most importantly, what to do about it. To give you a taste of how we think through these problems, I'm sharing a clip from our recent Ask Us Anything that again, I did with Dr. Baraki for our Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers. We start by defining what a plateau or a stall is, as well as some strategies for determining the cause and how to move forward to get over the hump. Here's that conversation. So the question is, if any of your lifts stall for more than three to four weeks or you hit peak performance for a certain rep range and your performance drops, will you increase volume for the next block or try to adjust variables like exercise selection for the same block and or rep ranges? Um, and also, is there a time where power lifters will benefit from an extended hypertrophy block to break through a plateau instead of doing a power lifting specific block? Pretty interesting question. We've talked about this a number of times in different places. Should we do a dedicated podcast on this? You guys can comment and let us know, you know, like power lifting performance. What do for programming? I don't know. Maybe that's interesting to some people, or maybe it's just a dwindling cohort of our audience. We'll see. But, um, tell me what you think about this, Dr. Baraki, when I think about a stall, I want to like define it, you know, like, or a plateau. Um, and I think about it as a lack of progress for about three to four weeks, despite consistent effort and being in a resource rich environment, meaning that the person is eating reasonably well, sleeping reasonably well. There's not this crazy life stress or environmental stress that's going on. So like, you know, we would predict that if the program was appropriate, as far as the formulation, so what's in it and the correct dose that you would see some demonstrable progress in that timeframe. Um, and in particular, I'm thinking about the priority lifts. So like the exercises that come like first, second, or even third, um, on like our templates, whereas like, you know, if there's biceps curls at the end, I'm like, I don't know that I care that much. And I don't know that I can call it quantify that as a stall. It's just like, look, it's at the end of the session. So like fatigue is just going to be a thing. Um, does that jive with your kind of, uh, you know, how you would define a stall or a plateau? I think it's reasonable. The only thing that I might, I don't know if it's really a quibble or just like a slightly different way to think about it is when you put a timeframe, that three to four week period that is admittedly made up, uh, just to be clear. And also something that may require a little bit of adjustment based on the person that we're talking about and where they're at in their training journey. And, and the reason I say that is like for you or I, you know, when we're training seriously, it's like, if our lifts aren't really moving a ton over the course of three to four weeks, we are not suddenly freaking out or saying, oh, we're in a stall and like aggressively changing tons of variables. There might be some tinkering that we're doing, but at the same time, it's like, I, you know, I've mentioned this before. If either of us hit a PR once or twice a year, that's like a pretty good year for us at this point. Right. And so it's like, how much true quote unquote progress can you realistically expect outside of kind of artifactual progress? And when I say artifactual progress, that means like, if you, you know, set up your training in a way that the loads necessarily go up week to week, maybe because your RPE targets are getting higher or because your rep range is going down. That's not necessarily the same thing as like progress. It's just a different way to set up your training, perhaps to give you a lead in to build some physical adaptations to get your psychology right, to kind of build some momentum in various ways. And so, yeah, if, if we have, you know, this, a person who, as I gather is likely the case from the person asking this question, maybe like a early intermediate quote unquote, if we wanted to apply that kind of also made up terminology, then yeah, that's a reasonable amount of time during which we should see some demonstrable, you know, changes in their performance. But for a very early career lifter, you know, maybe we expect some things a little bit more often for a much later career lifter. We might not expect things anywhere near that timeframe. So that's the only quibble I would have here, but otherwise, yeah, pretty reasonable take. Yeah, it's not, I think you could maybe adjust that timeframe two different ways. So way number one would be like, look, if you are anybody up to like a very experienced or relatively experienced trainee within three to four weeks, you should see some demonstrable progress. If everything else has stayed the same and the environment is resource rich, like we said, and if you are an advanced lifter, it's probably going to be longer. So that's one adjustment. Alternatively, you could adjust the anchor by which you're comparing performance. So for example, your best squat all time is like, well, like 630 or something or 620. Yeah, right around that. Yep. 625, I think. But that's not your current max. Totally not. Your current max, let's call it 540 or whatever it is. Right. And so even then with your current max, I would expect some sort of signal of an improvement within that, you know, three to four weeks, maybe it's five weeks, whatever from where you're starting, you know, to that time point. So I think that historical anchor can be problematic. If you're trying to define a stall or plateau, I would use a more recent benchmark. That's fair. Yeah. Fair enough. All right. So the first part when I'm thinking through this is like, let's verify, let's do an assessment. Let's verify. Are we tracking estimated 1RM? Are we testing actual 1RM? We tend to favor the former, right? Because like testing in training, it's like, is it really important that we get the most accurate, you know, look, you went up and then you went to a point where you failed. I don't think that's necessary. But the problem becomes when people are tracking estimated 1RMs from like sets of 8 or 10 or 12 or the rep ranges are moving. It's like, I don't know that this really, like, it's not giving me a strong enough signal of like, yep, you're stalled for sure. It's more like this is just noisy data. And so at that point, I might say, why don't you do a single at 8, you know, before or after and just as a comparison. And so one strategy that I use, and you'll see it in our templates and in my coaching clients is like week one. This is just an example. The numbers are kind of made up. It depends on the person. But they'll do a squat, 4 at 7, 4 at 8, 4 at 9, or 4 at 6, 4 at 7, 4 at 8, these ascending sets to triangulate their current strength potential. And then at the end of the block, let's call it eight weeks later, they'll do 4 at 7, 4 at 8, 4 at 9. It's a similar, it's like a test type thing just to compare and say, did you get stronger or not? And that kind of gives me feedback that I feel like is relatively, you could compare it without doing too much, you know, rationalization or too much hand wavy mental gymnastics sort of stuff. Um, so that's the first thing I want to verify. Part two is, and this is like, you know, the, I don't know what the market size is for like strength training as far as money goes, but let's call it the million dollar question. You have to determine whether or not it's insufficient stimulus, right? Or insufficient sort of adaptation. Like, is it too much or too little basically? And that is challenging to, um, uh, to discern between moving into a new house. Managing the business and keeping up with my own training. My schedule is pretty much a disaster right now. For me, I realized that cooking healthy meals just wasn't going to happen when I found myself finishing a long day and realizing I still had an hour of prep and cleanup ahead of me. Look, you want to eat better. And when you have zero time and energy factor solves the problem, two minutes, real food, and you're done. It's not that you're failing at healthy eating. You're just failing at having extra hours in the day. Factor makes it super easy. All of their meals are made by chefs and designed by dieticians, and then they're delivered right to your door. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables, and healthy fats with no added sugars. I've been leaning on the muscle pro collection as it fits my needs as someone doing a lot of training. They also have high protein options, vegetarian options, and a ton of other different dietary patterns too. Anyway, slice it. All of their meals are fresh, never frozen, and the food is ready in minutes. It's super easy to stay on track. Factor. Head over to factormeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first Factor box plus free breakfast for an entire year. The offer is only valid for new Factor customers with code and qualifying auto-renewing subscription purchase. Make healthier eating easier with Factor. That's factormeals.com slash BBM50off. This podcast is brought to you by Biggs. At Barbell Medicine, we spend a lot of time talking about what it takes to build a body that can handle high-level performance, but the recovery in the health side is just as critical. Over the last six years, an incredible team of healthcare professionals did something that most people thought was impossible. They helped rebuild the body of legendary Olympian Lindsey Vonn after a series of devastating injuries. And now, she's actually headed back to the 2026 Winter Games in Milan, and she's ready to break records once again. This February, Lindsey's team and the entire USA medical team will be wearing FIGS, and you can rock their official uniform too. The new Team USA collection from FIGS is engineered with FiberX. It's their most durable fabric yet. It really is setting a new gold standard for high-level performance scrub wear because it's lightweight, it's breathable, and it's ultra-resilient for those long shifts. And of course, the style comes in red, white, and blue. Now, if you want the gear that the medical team behind the world's best athletes are wearing, check out the limited edition Team USA collection. You get 15% off your first order at wearfigs.com with code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com, code FIGSRX. We talk a lot about efficiency and high-yield results in training. And your wardrobe should follow the same logic. A well-built wardrobe is about pieces that work together and hold up over time. And that's what Quince does best. Premium materials, thoughtful design, and everyday staples that feel easy to wear and easy to rely on, even as the weather changes. Quince has everyday essentials I love with quality that lasts. From organic cotton sweaters and polos for every occasion, to lighter jackets for the changing seasons. The secret is that they work directly with top factories and cut out the middlemen, so you're not paying for a massive brand markup. You're just getting quality clothing, and everything is built to hold up to daily wear and still look good season after season. Plus, they only partner with factories that meet rigorous standards for craftsmanship and ethical production. We've recently had some cooler weather in Southern California, so I've been rotating through a few of their cashmere sweaters and their jackets, if I'm going somewhere else besides the gym. They look great, and they've been holding up way better than others I've bought that cost way more. So, for me, it's a no-brainer. Refresh your wardrobe with Quince. Go to quince.com slash bbm for free shipping on your order and 365-day returns. Now available in Canada, too. That's quince.com slash bbm. Free shipping and 365-day returns. quince.com slash bbm. So, you know, if you're not getting enough stress to drive an adaptation, you won't see the fitness adaptation, provided you're measuring it in some sort of way that's repeatable. And if you're not able to recover or respond to it, like excessive fatigue, you're doing too much, you're also not going to be able to demonstrate that improvement in fitness adaptation. So, discerning that, like teasing that out is challenging. When I think about it, I'm like, if it's insufficient, person's probably not sore very often. They feel pretty fresh on a daily basis when they go into the gym. It's just kind of stagnant, the weights that they're using, for example. On the other hand, with excessive fatigue, too much, I'm like, you're probably sore more often than not. You might have some joint, you know, pain type stuff that's kind of popping up. Your motivation might be a little compromised because every session is kind of a grinder. Your session RPEs are higher, like stuff like that. Does that seem to make sense to you? Yeah. I think that's often how we have these conversations with people when they have these concerns, trying to get a much more of a subjective history and how they're feeling day to day, how they're approaching their workouts, how they're leaving their workouts, to kind of give us a little bit of direction of am I pushing further or am I pulling back? And then if I'm or am I keeping things kind of more steady, giving it more time sometimes is the right answer. So there's a lot of different paths. But some of that subjective input from the trainee is really essential. It's not something that is always very clearly quantifiable that will point you in a confident direction that the athlete's input is really important. Yeah, you got to make it. You're just hedging your bets. You're like, I feel like it's probably too little or I feel like it's probably too much. And those have, you know, different sort of courses of action. If you feel like it's not enough, then you're going to need more training load. And if you feel like it's too much, you need less training load. And so once you've kind of chosen your path, two paths divergent to the woods and I chose the one less, whatever, you got to pick a path and then you're just manipulating training load. So training load is not only just weight on the bar, but the reps that you use the volume that you're doing and then the proximity to failure. And all of these, it's like a, you know, a 10 band or whatever equalizer. And you get to kind of, you know, try to optimize. That's effectively the formulation of the training. And so if somebody had too low of a training, a training load, then I would likely increase volume because I suspect that I was starting from a place that was intelligent. Like the exercise selection was appropriate to what you care about. The rep scheme was also appropriate. Intensity was appropriate to what you care about. Maximal strength, hypertrophy, whatever. And then the proximity to failure was also intelligent. Like you weren't doing every set to RP 10, for example, for maximal strength. So those are some big assumptions. But look, if you're a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, I feel like it's a reasonable assumption nonetheless. If it's too much training load, then I'm going to go the opposite way. I'm likely going to reduce the number of sets, increase the proximity to failure. So get further away from failure, things of that nature. And, you know, that's kind of like the 10,000 foot view. There's some nuance here, though. So, for example, what if the environment is just not conducive to you making gains, meaning you're missing meals or, for example, your sleep is compromised, life stress, whatever. If that's the case, training modification probably should still happen. But also your expectations should change just a different season of life. And so I think about when I was in the ICU, for example, doing that rotation. I think about, you know, when you were doing night shifts, for example, in medical school, it's just not a great environment. And so you're like, look, I'm kind of this is more like maintenance mode. Like I'm training for a psychological benefit. And then also to like maintain my existing adaptations. At that point, almost universally, I like reducing training load. So just because the sort of it's not the training stress that's that's pickling you or cooking you, it's the life stress. And so reducing the training load to sort of match all of that seems like a good idea. We see this like people in high stress academic settings, like, oh, I got a finals coming up or a high stress job setting. Look, I got a deadline. I got whatever. Does that kind of make sense to you? Yeah, you're mitigating detraining as much as possible compared with the idea of promoting, you know, new training adaptations. And by mitigating detraining, it makes it so that when you're ready to kind of put all your resources back in the game, you're less likely to experience either significant soreness that takes a ton of time to recover from or an injury that would be, you know, otherwise avoidable because you didn't have as big of a jump in your training loads compared to if you just like quit or taking time off altogether. So it's just kind of keeping you as prepared as possible to get back in the game once you're ready. Yeah. And then the last little wrinkle here is let's say maybe the training load is actually fine. And again, the training formulation, what the training consists of is also reasonable or fine to the best of your knowledge. Maybe it's a technique related thing. So for example, your legs may in fact be getting stronger on a squat, but if your technique is compromised to such a way, such a point where it's just, it's a ceiling right now, well, you got to work on that. And it could be, you know, broadly speaking, I separate these in like two different categories. Is this just like a skill related thing or is like a specific muscle deficiency that you need to kind of like make up for. And so I discussed this a lot in the low fatigue ebook, whatever. So that would be a great resource for not only like troubleshooting, but also like how to identify those sticking points. But yeah, that'd be kind of like the last little wrinkle here. It's like, well, maybe the training load is fine. Maybe the environment is also fine. Maybe it's just you. Like it's not me. It's you, that sort of thing. And so that we discussed the courses of action there. So that kind of all makes sense. And you're ultimately, you're just going to monitor your response and iteratively change based on the same sort of like little algorithm we just worked through. The last question here was, is there a time where powerlifters will benefit from just a straight up hypertrophy block to break a plateau? Generally speaking, outside of psychological preferences where someone's like, look, I do not want to do the low bar squat, the competition bench, my regular deadlift. I'm just burnt out outside of that setting, which is totally fine, totally normal. And like, whatever, you can do a break. Not really. I don't think that powerlifters should be doing hypertrophy specific sort of training to the exclusion of training for their sport, mainly because you get a decent hypertrophy stimulus from squat bench deadlift and their variations. You can prioritize hypertrophy more in a particular block. If you feel like my technique is compromised by lack of musculature and ultimately like long-term strength gain requires both hardware updates, that's hypertrophy at the level of the muscle, more functional units to create force at the level of the muscle and software updates, neurological type stuff. And you want both. So a good program should include elements of both and where you shift your priority, you know, hypertrophy versus strength. And that blend kind of depends on the individual and then also where they're at in the competitive year. If you're close to a meet, probably not a lot of hypertrophy work. If you're far away from a meet, more hypertrophy work, generally speaking. Does that make sense to you? I think it's reasonable if you don't know anything else about the person. And the reason I make that caveat is that I think that over time working with enough people, we have also seen some folks who just generally tend to do better with more of their training spent in higher rep ranges. And they prefer it. They train better that way. They tolerate it better. And it still ends up leading to like 1RM performance improvements and things like that, like keeping reps higher for longer. And then other people who just tell us reliably, they're like, gosh, every time I do higher rep sets at a particular, say, reasonable intensity range, maybe they don't respond as well or things tend to decline. And so this is all just where, you know, you're proposing like knowing nothing else about you, here's how I would go about this. But once you gather more information about the person's kind of training response or their preferences or things like that, then it just becomes an exercise in tailoring it towards those things, even though you don't necessarily need to commit to that forever. So even when I tailor something towards it, I still might say, hey, what do you think about experimenting with this for a little bit of time? If it's something you never tried before, even that is sometimes enough to get somebody excited and, you know, try hard, which is all that might be needed for them and something new. Yeah. Yeah. Get excited about their training for sure. The last little nugget here, and then we can move on. I don't want to do 20 minute answers to every question. Agree. I find that the people who tend to thrive upon switching to higher rep range ranges, present company, me, including, I'm talking about me, it mostly stems from like overshooting on the lower rep ranges. Meaning like the bigger weights. Yeah. Who doesn't? Yeah. And so I'm like, look, if I have a little bit of like, maybe we'll call it like a conditioning level constraint. Like, look, dude, what are you going to squat for a set of eight, for a set of 10? What are you going to deadlift for a set of 12? Show me. That's what I'm saying. So I can't, you know, take, I can't go full send because I'm like, I'm tired. Yeah. So just, just a thought. I don't, I don't have any evidence to support that. It's just completely made up, but some experience there. All right. I hope that helps clear up some of the confusion about defining a stall and it gets you thinking about ways to address it. Like we mentioned, strength isn't linear. And sometimes the best move is to actually stay the course. However, if you've checked the boxes and you truly are stuck, you're going to need a plan. So we just released this brand new exclusive six part audio series on Barbell Medicine Plus called the Training Plateau Action Plan. And we go into every variable training, volume, intensity, frequency, exercise selection, progression, and more. And we give you a step-by-step guide to help diagnose and try to troubleshoot your own training. You can sign up and get instant access to the series, the PDF, and our entire library of exclusive content at barbellmedicine.supercast.com. Check it out now. Bye. Bye.! Bye. Thank you.

=== FILE: How-To Manage Training And Shiftwork [QRoYH35UHWM].txt ===

How can you best mitigate the effect of shift work like 24-hour shifts such as naps to catch up on sleep? And then how do you not know CBO yourself into thinking you'll have a bad day? Because you didn't get enough sleep or some other factor that is far from ideal. I can start. So this is something that I think both of us have some experience with. Having been through periods of time already did 24-28 hour shifts somewhat regularly. And there's not a great way to get quality sleep during that period of time, particularly when those shifts can be unpredictable. So there may have been some of those shifts where I was able to get some sleep during the shift. There are some where I had to be awake, alert and doing things the entire time. And obviously there ends up being a consequence afterwards. Some of those days after the shift will crash harder than others, or if you end up getting some sleep on the shift, maybe you don't sleep as much. And so the unpredictability, the variability, is problematic. It results in you generally not feeling awesome. And I think that is unfortunately probably part of the deal with doing 24-hour shifts with any degree of regularity. You're not going to feel completely awesome or completely normal all the time. If they're more spaced out and relatively infrequent, then you can try to get on as consistent of a sleep schedule as you can in between. And that'll restore some semblance of normal sleep. But just the idea was sleep in general and that this should be the takeaway if you listen to our podcast on sleep that we did with our friend Dr. Gordon. Is that consistency is kind of what tends to be the name of the game here. In particular, if we can get our patients who we have with insomnia, if we can get them waking up at the same time every single day, then that ends up resulting in developing sufficient sleep drive. Over time, such that they end up kind of falling into a more normal sleep cycle rhythm. But obviously this is a big barrier to having a consistent sleep schedule. You just have to do the best you can in terms of consistency. As far as the other part of thEQuestion, where it had to do with not kind of crushing yourself by thinking you're going to have a bad session just because you didn't get enough sleep or some other factor. I think this comes into the discussion I had earlier comparing external versus internal load. So external load being the absolute weight on the bar, whereas internal load describes the response to that trening stimulus that we measure using RPE. I think that if people who have excessive focus on the importance or the significance of the external load, they put all their value and self-worth on the absolute weight on the bar, I think you're going to have some trouble with this situation. Right? Because you're going to put so much value on lifting a particular weight on a particular day at a particular time and your life, the cards are just not going to fall that way. You get to that day, that time, go to lift that weight and maybe it doesn't go. Right? And that's tough. That's why we like having more as Jordan said, maliability, flexibility in your trening program, where you view the trening process differently. You don't view the trening process as something where you have to lift a specific weight. Rather, you're saying, I'm the weight on the bar, the rep I'm doing is merely a strategy to elicit this response that I'm trying to get. Right? And in that sense, you can change the weight on the bar and not freak out about it. Rather, you can pack yourself on the back for saying, I got the desired stimulus for where I am today at this particular time, based on how I'm performing at this moment, given everything else in my life that IMay or may not have control over. Right? So it can almost become a win when you go into that session. You use your auto-regulation strategy like RPE. You adjust the load accordingly. You complete the whole session. That's awesome. That's a win. You're doing more than just about anybody else out there who is doing 24 hour shifts. Guaranteed. Right? Instead of viewing it as I was supposed to squat 500 today. Right? But I could only squat 455. I suck. Right? Big difference in how you view that in terms of the trening process. So this has a lot to do with kind of how if we're going to be goal-oriented, the nature of goals that we use. Are the goals we use performance-based? Right? Were you insist on performing lifting a particular weight? Are they out-come-based? Like, I'm lifting to win only if you ain't first your last. Right? Or are they process-based goals? Right? I'm going to tren all four sessions that I'm supposed to do. I'm going to get my conditioning in, et cetera. And that's my win for the week because my life is crazy like this. So that's the way I view this. It's just reframinGHow I view the trening process in general. I think the only thing I have to add is like if you were trying to set yourself up for success, you would want to control the or maximize the variables that are under your control as much as possible. So for example, you're on 24 hour shift. That doesn't mean, yeah, I'm going to skip three different meals and just have breakfast. For example, before leaving the hospital and three redbols. Yeah, exactly right. So if you have your nutrition relatively under control with the health promoting dietary pattern, you know, your trening is set up to allow some flexibility, rather than having very rigid processes. And then again, ultimately, a scribe in less sort of importance to any single session, any single exercise or any single sort of even input into your trening. IMean, I would just assume that you're going to PR anyway, for example. Yeah, like if it's me, if IMean I don't work outside of barbell medicine anymore, this is my main baby, but I wish I could get us on to a night shift because if I go on night shift, I'm going to PR historically, whenever I'm on night shift PR start raining out of nowhere. And I have no idea why I have no reason to stay up at night now. I'm not into generate. So I can't do it. But yeah, I would just assume, all of the things we need to do are going to do great. So having that positive kind of outlook on stuff, good nutrition. And then I don't know that I would recommend NAPS because I just feel like that's not really going to help. It could help acute performance, but if it to the extent of compromise is sleep drive later on, it's probably net negative. So probably wouldn't do that. We just go in and tren and go on with my life because that's a good summary of, you know, this whole deal. That's right. tren and go on with your life. Yeah, exactly. Very cool. Well, thank you so much for coming out here. Norfolk for our first seminar back, really appreciate it.

=== FILE: How-To Monitor, Interpret, and Adjust Training Load ft. Dr. Franco Impellizzeri [mlV0fhdvhjg].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. On today's episode, we have a very special guest, Dr. Franco and Pellezzieri. He is redefining how we think about training and sports and performance. I came across some papers starting a few years ago and have been addicted to them. And so now you guys get to learn from one of the best in exercise physiology, statistical methodology, and everything having to do with sports science, specifically around training load and injury prevention. He's helped teams and athletes move from guesswork to a scientific approach. It's an honor to welcome Dr. Franco and Pellezzieri to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you so much for joining me. How's it going? Thank you very much for having me. It's going well. And I'm not that good as you're saying, but I really appreciate the take. Well, there you go. Yes, so look, if and when the next time I come to Australia maybe you give me a more grandiose introduction than I deserve. That's the idea here. Yeah, I can prepare a pizza also. There you go. Can you tell our audience who may not be familiar with you a little bit about what you do? What's your day-to-day? I know you're at university right now, but is it mostly research? Are you teaching? You're doing a little bit of both. What's going on over there? Yeah, now I joined the University of Technology in Sydney in 2018. Before that, I work in private sector, actually. So I'm a rookie in the academic system. But so I worked 10 years in a private research center. Basically, there was a company sponsoring athletes and teams, and I worked for them. The idea was simply that since they were giving money to teams and athletes, they wanted someone taking care of their investment. This is how I approached sport at the beginning. And after a transition for 10 years in orthopedics, just to have a new experience and open a bit my mind, and actually was really helpful. And in the meantime, I also trained athletes, teams, and other stuff. And now I'm taking care of research methods. I'm teaching research methods here at the university. And I'm focusing on various areas. Like training load is one of my main areas, historically, basically. And I'm teaching sport epidemiology and all this kind of stuff, all boring things. No, I was going to say, do you ever get, you know, if somebody sees you and they recognize you or whatever, maybe from your introduction, they say, oh, you're the training load guy. You're like, you know, I also am interested in other things. Does that ever happen to you? Yeah, that's actually, it happens a lot. Yeah, I started my career writing papers on training load and also recently to try to clarify some concepts about training load. Yeah, I'm more popular for training load. But recently, I had some back and forth with some researchers in journal for the so-called acute chronic workload ratio, which is a ratio that is supposed to help preventing injuries and our re-analysis of hamstring, Nordic hamstring exercises. I'm approaching the area more from a meta-research perspective, which meta-research is basically the study of research methods. And the main reason is just because we want to give information to coaches that are helpful. And I don't want to be the one creating too much confusion. So sometimes I have questions, at least the way some results are communicated to coaches and that can create more problem than solutions, let's say. Yeah, I like that. It also makes science communication something we try to do here at Barbell Medicine a lot easier when there is no need to hire a specialist to interpret the paper because it's written in such a way, or the methodology is done in such a way where you're like, I feel like I need to have a PhD in this specific thing to understand what was done here. I want to know what you found when you did the research, but I'm not smart enough. So it is helpful, I think, to have some steeping there. We start each one of these podcasts with our guests, with guest speakers, with two questions. I think they're interesting. We'll see how you take them. The first question is, what is your fitness mode of choice? If you were at your current exercise routine, I always want to know what people do for their own fitness just to see. I'm a strength training addicted. I have the gym here in my garage. I was training a lot basically every day for years. I changed a bit my habits after the COVID for some reasons because the volume of work became quite a lot. So I'm not training a lot now, but when I can, resistance training is my prefer form of training. I'm very traditional. And people told me, I do training every day. It's not correct, good, because you have to record. I said, I don't care. I mean, I just like it. I'm doing what I like. Yeah, yeah. And I'm the training load guy. If anyone knows if I'm doing too much and having too much training load, it's me. Yeah, I also come from Comba Sports, which is a very interesting area because the way you approach training load is, in my opinion, is completely different compared to other disciplines because you want to train a lot. You want to suffer. But this is not only related to the fitness improvements you can have, but it's also a psychological thing. So you want to feel strong. You want to not have regret before competing, which is the days before a competition at combat is where everything comes out. You start to think, yeah, maybe I didn't do enough or these kind of things. So from that perspective, sometimes pushing a bit the boundaries of training is useful, even if there are some risks. But on the other side, the risk is to go to compete, to fight without the confidence. So you need to balance a bit the two things. And that's why sometimes I'm a bit critical about some forms of training load management that don't consider these other aspects. Yeah, it's not just fitness. It's also like, do you feel like, well, I left. I didn't leave any stone unturned. I feel as prepared as I can possibly be. I did everything. And yeah, certainly different personality types would lead you to different management strategies there. That's interesting. We're going to talk about it. And then the second question before we dive in to start talking about training load is, what are you reading right now, or do you have a book recommendation for our audience? Mostly it's a mix of lay and professional folks, health and fitness professional folks. So if you had a book recommendation, I always like to ask our guests what they recommend. Well, I'm a bit biased here because I have two kinds of literature that normally I read. One is about research methods and specifically epidemiology. And the reason is simple. That is simple. That because there are not a lot of areas in which you can find books or literature specific on methods of research. And epidemiology is one of these. Some people in sports science criticize me a bit because I rely too much on epidemiology. But in the end of the day, when you want to measure the relation between the exposure and the disease, if the exposure is training and instead of the disease, I have performance or injuries or whatever, it is exactly the same. So I find that kind of literature very useful. And I normally suggest this literature to everyone who wants to know more about research. So modern epidemiology of Greenland-Rothman is a large, big names in epidemiology. It's something I recommend. And I have another bias, which is I read the books of Verne Gambetta. I know him. I really value Verne as a professional. It doesn't mean that I necessarily agree with everything. It does, it says. But when I hear in Sydney, we often meet. I have a very nice conversation. And besides, I don't know if we have time to go into this. But I like to surround myself with people that challenge me intellectually. I don't like to have people that just tell me how good I am. Because at some point, you may think it to be much better what you really are. So I think it's important to have this kind of, you know. So I like a lot how Verne writes things and the pragmatic approach. So yeah. Well, I will then, I'm just going to throw my script away then. It was very complimentary. And now we're just going to be antagonistic and just see what I'm just kidding, see how this goes. So let's start with the first of today's topic. It's going to be training load. And for a long time, the term training load has been used to characterize the amount and the nature of, in this case, exercise, or potentially sports practice or sports competition, that an individual performs. However, your work further refined that understanding to kind of come up with two subcategories, external and internal training loads. The first time I ever saw that in the research. Now for listeners who may not be familiar with these terms, how do you define external and internal training loads? Yeah. We came out with this classification 20 years ago just for full transparency. It's not something I invented. It was a classification that was used in the coaching world in some niche areas of coaching world. And I just transformed this in something that could be communicated from a scientific perspective. And when I read the first time, I found it quite reasonable. I'm a huge fan of logic. So I found it very logical. And so basically, when you train someone, you use something. And something can be a barber, can be sprinting, or whatever, in order to obtain an internal response. So this is why you use these forms of these training strategies. The point is that how people adapt to these training stimuli is based on the internal response, how your body is reacting to that load. So we can lift 100 kilograms both, but this can have different effect, because for me, maybe too much for you can be just the warm-up. So in the end of the day, the reason why we manipulate these exercises that I define external load is to induce an internal physiological response. That's why we call internal load. So external is something you administer from outside, like a training plan. When you write down a training plan, you have to write down something. And the internal load is the internal response. Yeah, that's a great description. And when we do our programming lectures, we use these terms. And to your point, when people first hear of these, they have that sort of logical understanding, like, oh, this seems, to use your word, reasonable. And yeah, you can spend some time trying to pick it apart. And one of the first, maybe, barriers to it for someone adopting that terminology or even considering it useful is like, OK, well, great. Well, how are we going to measure the external load? And how are we going to measure the internal load? So when it comes to external load, if we think this is like the nuts and bolts of a training program, are we just talking about things like intensity, volume, stuff like that? Or are there other ways that you have found to measure external load that you feel like have a maybe either greater transference to the outcome of interest? Or otherwise, you feel like they're more important? Yeah, that's actually not an easy question, answer. Also, the answer is quite complicated, but I try to keep it simple. So first of all, I normally start with a simple concept. The monitoring training load makes sense if you start with a training plan. There's no such a thing like monitoring something just for monitoring. So normally, what I try to explain is that what to measure and how to monitor depends on your training plan. So if you decide to use some training strategies, I suppose you have an idea. You have an idea about the progression. You want to follow all these kind of things. So what you should follow and monitor is if what you have planned is actually happening. So if you are actually doing what you were supposed to do, this is the first point of monitoring, which means there's no such a thing like the best metric, the best measure for training load. If you, for example, if you have decided in your training to introduce 10 sprints for some reasons, what you want to know if they have completed these 10 sprints and the intensity of these sprints because you have in your mind an idea. So the idea is to reach some high speeds so that this can have a neuromastoral effect, all these kind of things. So I decide what to measure based on my program. And the common question of people is, what's the best metric? It does not best metric because it depends on, if you have designed your resistance training based on time under tension, you will probably monitor the time under tension because that's what was your goal. So it's really everything starts from the plan and from the coach. It doesn't start from, let's say, the sports science department. The sports science department give you the instruments to monitor what you really care and the variables that you have used to design your program. I hope I answered your question. No, you did. It actually leads me to kind of my second thought in another like aha moment, although this one happened more recently. Probably, I imagine this is similar to you when you first kind of came across this subgroup who was using the term external and internal load and you were like, I dig that. I like that. You had mentioned this phrase mediating mechanism, the idea that if you're trying to come up with a training measure, it should, it's most useful if it captures the mediating mechanism where mediating mechanism refers to what's causing the potential change and in this case like a fitness adaptation or performance change. So for strength training, if we were trying to come up with a mediating mechanism, you could come up with a worse metric than like a number of hard sets or average intensity. I mean, you could come, we could argue about which one's most useful, which one correlates best, but there are specific values that you would want to track based on your predicted mediating mechanism, which may or may not be correct. Yeah, that's actually, yeah, that's a very important point. The problem is that most of the time you can't measure these mediating mechanisms and what you do, yeah, because let's say you're, when you're using a barbell, you want to induce some neuromuscular, specific neuromuscular stimulus, but you can't measure the neuromuscular stimulus. That's why sometimes you measure external load not because you don't want to measure internal load because you can't do that because you don't have any, you cannot place electrodes to measure the electrical activity of the muscle, these kinds of things. That's not something you can do on a routine base. So normally what you do, you use a measure of external load as a proxy of these internal responses. So the problem is that the proxies may be not that accurate. Yeah, but it's also true that in real world that we don't have all these instruments at the moment. So for example, now people are using velocity-based training a lot. And so the idea behind is to provide very specific neuromuscular stimulus. And so they are using velocity as a proxy of a mediator. The leadership that you can read is to understand whether velocity is actually good proxy of this mediator. And this is how you should read the literature, not just jumping here and there because also because there's too much literature around. Unfortunately, most is not really reliable, but it's plenty. So you needed to have a sort of roadmap when you want to enter in this area of evidence-based practice. So there's no, I can't answer telling you what's the best matrix because you can also use just the proportion of maximum RM and the assumption is that if I'm working 90%, this is correspond to neuromuscular stimulus that is higher enough to achieve what I want to achieve. And so in that case, it's okay. I don't complain now with the new wearables or all these technologies when you are using these raw majors, it seems you are not doing your job. Now you are perfectly doing your job. It may be even more appropriate than other majors. So it's more, again, why you are doing something. So think about why you are writing in your piece of paper on your computer that specific program. So if you have a tree set for something, why are you doing that? Because there should be a reason. So, yeah. Well, this is actually how I start to, I realize my biases. So one day I was writing a training program for some mattress and I used a lot of deadlifts. And if you ask me at that time, I could tell you a lot of reasons why these deadlifts were beneficial. But at some point I started to think, well, I always use deadlifts even before starting to understand science or these kind of things. So I was thinking, why I'm using deadlifts? And I realized that I simply like deadlifts. So I said, maybe this is why I'm using. But the point is that there are other reasons why I'm using deadlifts. But my point is that sometimes we do things because we are used to do that. And we try to create, to generate an hypothesis of why we're doing that more as a reaction cognitive dissonance. So over time I just embrace my biases. So I know that I'm doing, as I told you, I'm using a lot of resistance training, even in contests where people were not used to do that and there was criticizes, I don't care. I think it's important, I grow up this way and I'm just doing that. I didn't try to say, this is evidence-based. I said, no, that's my experience. And I don't see evidence that convinced me to change what I have done until now based on my experience. That's how I use literature and research. Yeah, I would like to draw attention to listeners at home that that is probably the best way to wrestle with our own biases. We all have our own biases, for sure, but also wanting to abide by evidence-based practices. You can choose to do something that has minimal evidence to support picking that particular thing. And instead of backfilling, reverse engineering a reason to try to make yourself feel good and warm and fuzzy, you can say, I just like it, but I haven't also been convinced that it's the wrong choice based on the existing evidence and that's totally reasonable. For example, if somebody instead of deadlifts was like, well, I prefer Romanian deadlifts, a specific variation. You'd be like, fine, not, only because you didn't arrive at deadlifts by eliminating all of these other choices based on some canon of evidence that exists because it doesn't, it's more, you're just like, I like deadlifting from the floor. You want a deadlift from the top? That's fine, like whatever, it's all the same. Yeah, again, I think sometimes people miss a bit the point of training, especially now with this fixation for evidence-based practice. And I'm saying fixation because it's wrong, it's because it's abused this term and this idea of using evidence-based methods. It's very complicated to use evidence-based methods. Most of the time people don't even know well what is evidence-based practice. The thing is just because there is an upset on PubMed and so on. It was a PubMed, yeah. Yeah, and that's actually not how it works. I would say now it's even more complicated than in the past. But the point is that we need to be realistic, pragmatic when we do things and we need to approach coaching from a bigger perspective. And I find very disappointing, especially from some coaches that they always insist about holistic view. Now there is also this nice term, dynamic system, complex system, all these kinds of things. And on the other side, they tend to simplify too much and they don't see the big picture. Because I tell you why I think that lifting is good, especially when I start to work in sports where the athletes don't have a lot of experience in resistance training and they know very well. With that lift, you can increase the load relatively soon. So you can lift more than 100 kilograms in a relatively short time. And imagine someone that has no experience with weights so they don't know that 100 kilograms is not a lot. Yeah, right, yeah. But when they see this 100 kilograms and they start to lift this 100 kilograms, they feel they start to feel strong, more confident and these kinds of things. So that lift for me is more a way to give athletes some confidence, more than training their back. And once they start to approach resistance training, they see the loads is more than one kilograms. They are more engaged in this new field. They see the new form of training, especially if they are not used. So I see these training strategies from another perspective, not simply just because I'm training a specific muscle, but it is more as a strategy to reach something as that is not purely physical. Yeah, hard to make that tangible also. You're like, oh, you're more confident now. How do we measure that? There's some questionnaires obviously, but yeah, it's interesting perspective. With the external training load that you're measuring is by some sort of variable that you feel like is likely to contribute to the adaptation of interest or adaptations of interest. How would you go about measuring internal training load? My familiarity with measuring internal training load, since it's really hard to get inside the body and like measure the specific thing, you use proxies, something like RPE, session RPE, heart rate. It all is telling you basically how the body is experiencing whatever the external training load is and allows you to kind of rate well, is it harder or easier, more or less stressful? Does that seem accurate to you or do you feel like I'm oversimplifying? No, it's not an oversimplification. It is the only thing we can do basically. So sometimes you measure perception because it's easy to do. You don't have other instruments and is a proxy of intensity basically. People told me, yeah, but RPE also include other components like psychological components and so on. Yeah, that's true, but do you have something else, something working better that excludes the psychological component besides the psychological components influence a lot of other measures or also external. So if you measure one RM one day, you are for some reason very well motivated. Maybe you are even a bit hungry that day for some reason you can push harder and another day you push less. So there's no measure that is not influenced. Especially in sport where is all performance based and performance is very influenced by motivation. There's always some sort of other influences. The important is to understand and knowledge the limitations of the measure that you're using. So if you're using RPE, you know that this can be influenced by other factors, but the same is heart rate, the same is even if you use the EMG, this can be impressive simply by where you are placing the electrodes. So there's no, there's not such a measure like perfect or gold standard measure. There are a lot of measures. So the way I think people may interpret train load monitoring is like having pieces of information that in isolation, they don't tell you a lot but when they combine, they can give you a better picture of the situation. So you may want to use RPE, heart rate, you use external load. You combine all this information and you try to see if there is a trend in some direction. And I use often the term trend because trends are what we are observing. When you measure something specifically in that session with that other, it's just a picture of that moment. And so let's say that the perception is higher, it may be because the other is tired because the day before they did something, they didn't sleep well, the day after the same exercise can induce a slightly different kind of response. And that's why I'm saying internal response is actually important because in the end of the day is the internal response that determine how you are improving or the adaptations or all these kinds of things. So the way and we wrote that several times, you understand how to monitor others is by measuring all these responses. So you measure the stimulus, you try to measure the response, heart rate variability normally is a response. So you measure after the training to see how you respond. And the assumption is that the magnitude of the responses in some ways related to the magnitude of the stimulus. So, and you try to balance this. And this is a way to understand the training tolerance of the athletes. And normally as a Todia McHoch, so I used to train people at the limits. If you have to go to an Olympic Games, you don't want to go there as a tourist. You go there to compete and have some chance of either winning or having a good placement. So, and the only way to do that is to push the athletes. You cannot, I cannot cut half the volume of training because I reduce the injury risk or this kind of thing. Yeah, that's true. But there is actually a simple reason why you reduce the risk because you are training less. So, yeah, the time at risk is lower. But this also means compromising the possibility to excel in the performance. So that's,  norma, and this is why you try to understand the tolerance and to work closer to the tolerance in at least in high performance sport. Yeah, yeah, effectively you're trying to get people to be able to, especially athletes at that level, to effectively maximize as much training as they can do without blowing themselves up, in this case an injury or otherwise like losing motivation over training syndrome, perhaps something like that. But generally speaking, the more you can train and tolerate that, that's a hedge that the more fitness adaptations in the higher your performance is likely to be later on. And so, yeah, to your point, you and I together, we could mesh our brains together and come up with a training program that has zero injury risk. You just wouldn't train at all. You just wouldn't do anything. It wouldn't be very effective. But no injury. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that was one of the bigger discussion I had when all this mass of training, loading injuries started 10 years ago. Because for example, people are scared about fatigue and say, well, but you know that when you train someone, you actually want to do some fatigue. Otherwise, you can't train. So the fact that an athlete is perceiving fatigue for me is not a problem. The problem is that the fatigue is higher than what I expect or what the athlete is expecting. That's because this means that I don't have control on the process. But the kind of narrative we have created as poor scientists is that people should be scared about training, about fatigue. I mean, there is a risk when you train. There is a nice study about training loading injuries in hockey players. It was the only study that I consider well done out of 100. This was done by a Yanshriar group in Canada. So basically, they use a metocol time target trial emulation. So they try to emulate the target trial with observational data. And what they have done is interesting because they didn't only examine the increase in the risk, increasing the participation in sport. But they also compare this increase with the increase that you would expect just because you are training more. So in other words, if you are sprinting 10 times, you have half of the reason sprinting 20 times because you are exposed. Exposure. Yeah. And this is what people, where people got tricked by the fact that they didn't realize that the training is both the stimulus, but it's also the time at risk. So the more you train, the more you are exposed at risk. But still you need to train. What they have shown is that the more you train, the more you increase the risk of injury, which is actually what we would expect. But the increase is lower than what you would expect by just increasing the time at risk. Like a periodontal. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's actually there is a protective effect. So the more you train, the less injury prone you are. Of course, since you are training more, the risk is increasing because you are just doing more, but there is a protective effect of training itself for injury. And how much you have to train someone, it's in relation to the performance is a risk benefit analysis. That's it. Before an Olympic game, you can risk much more because the benefit may be higher than during the season, for example. So yeah. Yeah. I think people don't appreciate that because they are like, well, look, if you increase training load too rapidly, for example, for an individual to tolerate it, well, injury risk goes up a lot. That's the assumption, right? But there is little caveatting around that where it's like, yeah, but their performance could also go up a bunch too. And it's probably not the potential for benefit. It's probably not proportional to the potential for injury. In fact, in this case, you would assume that the potential for benefit is actually higher than the potential for injury. And you're like, it's an optimization problem. We're walking this tightrope and trying to figure out, should we push or not? Yeah. Absolutely. And that's why you monitor training because normally, I hope people, coaches, have a plan in their mind. So you want to just see if the plan is going as it was supposed to go. So this is why you monitor. I don't think you can discuss monitoring without discussing also the training program. This is where I... Yeah. But this is where I find myself a bit uncomfortable when also I have these kind of interviews, people asking what kind of matrix. Yeah, I don't know. What's your training based on the training? We can discuss what can be the best. But it's not only what is the training, what is the goal of your training? You are jumping. Why are you doing power cleans? I suppose there is a reason. So based on the reasons why you are doing that, we can decide what to monitor. But everything is around the coach. It's not around the sports science department. And this is actually a bit my personal and different perspective than other colleagues. Yeah. Well, especially if they are in the sports science department, they are like, hey, what are you talking about? Frank, come on. Why are you cutting us out? And you are like, well, this is not where the decisions are necessarily made. I gave a presentation at the European power lifting conference in 2019 talking about injury risk in power lifting, right? In some ways to maybe reduce that. What's the lay of the land? What is the average injury risk per thousand participation hours? It's about two to four, depending on the population that you look at, which is compared to other things, pretty low. And then so how would you manipulate this? How could you make it more risky versus less risky? And then how does it interplay with performance? And at the time, one of the metrics that had been put forth to track is this acute to chronic workload, which is probably more geared towards either team sports, endurance sports, or whatever, just because the time component is so pertinent to the mediated mechanism. And that endurance sports, that's your volume. Basically in team sports, it's your exposure. Not too useful for resistance training, tracking, because you could be in the gym for three hours and only have done 15 sets, whereas that could also have been done in an hour, right? So it's not perfect there. So I'm wondering if you were trying to come up with some sort of variable to monitor with respect to injury risk in resistance training. Do you have any ideas about how you would go about monitoring that? And if you just want to throw your hands up and say, I don't know, that's totally fine too. I'm just more curious. No. I mean, I don't know, but because there's no literature that can help us understanding that. I mean, I know I'm saying that and most colleagues would probably disagree, but I can defend my position everywhere in front of everyone because show me a good study explaining what matrix we can use to monitor or to control for the injury risk. And I can show you why these studies are not good enough to understand how to do that. I'm not saying that we don't have to try is a different. Yeah, right. Yeah. I think that this idea that there are some scientific meters to control for the training load in order to limit the risk of injuries is not true. It's simply not true is a wishful thinking, but it's not true. There's not such a metric. There are things that we do. And if you think about it, the reason, one of the reasons why the acute chronic ratio became popular is because the message is actually a message that is familiar to coaches. Like you have to avoid spikes. You have to follow progression. The first time I start to read about these reasons, well, but this is actually the normal training methodology. I don't see anything different than people start to say, yeah, but now we have the proofs and say, no, that's not the proof. And we publish the reasons why this ratio doesn't provide the proof. But in the end of the day, the reason why people accept some metrics is because they fit with our idea of a good training. I recently posted a study. One of the biggest study, there are more than 5,000 runners. And they also use the acute chronic ratio. The study is properly done because they also use a causal interest approach to understand the causal relation. Long story short, their study, which is unquestionably one of the best done until now, show the opposite trend. So the higher this ratio, the lower the injury risk. And of course, no one advertised this study because it goes against what we normally think. Because based on the study, the faster and the more you increase, the lower is the injury risk. That noise and that doesn't make any sense. But the meters are much stronger than the other studies showing that the spikes are dangerous. So people just pick the results that fit their idea. So my point was, okay, if you're just selecting the studies that fit your idea, we don't need the study. Just go on and do what you think is good. And that's it. Because if out of one of the studies, you pick the 30 that support your idea and you are ignoring the other 70, what's even the point of running all these studies? Just do it. Just do what you want. And I would be comfortable to follow. And this is what I do sometimes. I prefer to follow these experience-based approaches than strategies based on weak evidence. Yeah. Yeah, no, that's a good point. Yeah, if you're just going to do whatever you want to do anyway, you don't need literature to support that. Yeah. Just like, you know, just do it and don't tell anyone like whatever. You don't have to explain yourself. One of the metrics we've been trying to, we're collecting data on. So we have an app with tens of thousands of people that log their training in it and have been coming up with this. It's like a training impulse score. It effectively takes the average intensity, how many reps you did, the proximity to failure of that set using RPE with the reps and reserve anchor. And then was it a compound exercise or an isolation exercise? Because I think those two things affect people differently. And was it on a machine or was it free-standing? I don't know why I believe that compound, you know, free-standing exercise in parts say slightly different sort of stress to somebody than an isolation one done on a machine, but that's my belief system. I'm open to being wrong. Anyway, and so I'm trying to figure out, does that, is that a good proxy for like training load in so far as it would mediate the injury risk and then also people's sort of arc for strength in this case. The arc towards strength, it's pretty good. Like I'm seeing some pretty good correlation there. I like that we haven't obviously tracked injuries in this prospective way just yet, but that's where I'm trending. But I'd be happy to not only get your thoughts on that, but also for somebody to prove me wrong and say, actually, that's all bullshit. You don't need to measure all of that stuff. Just measure this other thing. You know, maybe it'd be something more or more simpler like, hey, do you feel like you're at injuries coming on? You know, the person could predict that ahead of a session. You just ask them, for example, I'd be happy if that were the case because then, hey, look, I don't have to track all this stuff. I just have to ask you before every training session, hey, how are you feeling? And then I can just use that, you know? Yeah. Well, this is actually, this is the reason why I started to use RP because in the end of the day, I was thinking, okay, when you train someone as a coach and you are on the field, you try to understand how they are responding to the training that they are fine. You speak with the others, say, how do you feel today? And if someone is telling you, today, I don't feel well, I'm not concentrated, you normally adjust the training based on this feedback. So I start to say, okay, but if we actually use this kind of feedback from the others, why don't we try to quantify a bit this kind of information so that I can use tomorrow to monitor the training. So that's why I found perception important. And when people told me, yeah, but this is influenced by psychological aspects, yeah, that's actually why I think it's important because I want to know. Yeah, it's a feature, not a bug. Yeah, yeah, yeah. For me, it's more dangerous that you complete some exercises when you are in a bad day, you are not very concentrated, these kind of things because you can, you know, that technique can be, you don't focus on the technique and this can create problems. So these are the kind of information that I think are important. So coming back to your initial question, I think that measuring all these things may be useful to understand why something happened. You can't predict what is going to happen, but if something happened, you can try to understand why, for example, I had this injury or why the performer was so bad. And if you have different information, for example, you have these objective measures, but you also have some perception, and maybe the others told you something and you ignore or you didn't focus for some reason on these kind of feedback. So you go back and you try to understand why something happened in order to, in the future, to avoid what you may think were mistakes, but predicting something happening in the future is the most difficult thing you can do. Even with this machine learning, all these kinds of methods that we now have, most of the time the worker, you create the model based on what happened in the past. And what is going to happen in the future is something you have to test. This is called external validation, is commonly used in clinical setting where you have a prognostic model and you want to validate in a new population or even in your population, but in the future. That's an important part because it's much easier to fit a model with all data. It's much more difficult to use that model to predict what is going to happen in the future, which is what most people in reality want. But so this is the reason why I think monitoring all this information can be useful. In addition, it's also to understand how athletes are coping with the training, so with the stress you have planned. That's the key is always to try to understand how they are tolerating the training. And to do that, you don't need only to measure the training load, you need also to have some measure of responses. Can be measure of fatigue or even perception or how to rate variability. It doesn't matter what you're using, but you want to understand with that specific training load what is the response and how is this response moving, is moving in the direction I want. So there may be a period in which you decide to intensify the training and you know that two or three weeks of intensified training will induce fatigue. So if you start to see an increase in fatigue, that's not the problem in my opinion because that's actually what I wanted to do with my training. But if, for example, after a while I lower the training load and I see that fatigue is not going down, this can be a sign that something is going wrong. And so I can, this can open the, the two additional investigations asking the others. Maybe sometimes you can also do some medical screening. This happened when I was working with cyclists, they were not responding well. It happened that sometimes we realized they had viral infections and these kind of things. So you see a deviation from what you plan. And this is, I think, the only reasonable thing that you can do now with all these measures. I'm not saying that in the future maybe we can develop something stronger at the moment. I don't see this happening even if there are a lot of whereabouts now. So there are a lot of information coming. But moving from this information, from this data to real information, this is another beast. Yeah. Yeah, ideally you would have some objective stuff, right, these metrics. And you'd have also some subjective feedback. Again, like, how are you feeling? Do you have heart rate variability? You know, which is something, an objective number, but somebody could report that. Are you sore? Do you feel like you have, you know, you have pain, stuff like that. And yeah, blending those together and seeing, like, well, is this the predicted response based on the change in the training? Or is it, oh, this is far different than I expected. Wonder why. And then you got a deep dig deeper. But I don't know yet how this is all going to pan out. And if somebody else did, I wouldn't have to do this work. So we'll see what happens. With the whereables, that actually brings up a question I had for you. So many studies are using statistical associations between training load and injury risk. But inferring causality, as you'd mentioned, is it's challenging to be charitable, if not inappropriate just based on the methodology that's being used. So what's your take, you know, on a listener who's, they got a fitness tracker and they get some sort of training load score, whether it's strain, for example, or some other proprietary number. Is that useful information? And should they be asking themselves or their coaches to make sure that, like, they're in a particular range? Like, how do you view all that stuff? Is it just noise or just kind of like interesting information you could potentially draw a trend from? I don't know. How do you view that? I have to be careful how I answer to this question. We have our legal team on retainer. We're good. Don't worry about it. It's fine. Yeah. No, I mean, there's, of course, there is their commercial interest behind some metrics. So it's not necessarily they can have these metrics can be solid in terms of science. And even when there are published papers, nowadays it's not enough to have something published somewhere, more or less you can publish everything nowadays. And so you need to be, and this is complicating the area a lot, people need to be good. Good enough to understand whether something they're reading or something that companies use to support their methods are actually solid from a scientific and robust enough from a scientific perspective, which is very, very complicated. And this is why I complain with some colleagues because the way we communicate now science is different than 20 years ago. 20 years ago science and the research was basically a niche area. Only researchers access this kind of information. And now this information are out there. Everyone can access, can read, and you know that in any area, they mention an article. Sometimes they mention articles on predatory journals that they don't even know is a predatory journal. So the responsibility of scientists nowadays is completely different. So when you write something, especially, for example, an abstract, we need to understand that people may just read the title and the answer. Sometimes just the title. So if you use a catchy title, but the title is misleading, this is problematic because you are popularizing a concept that may be wrong. Maybe in the discussion you wrote, okay, these are the limitations, but people don't read that. So this is a responsibility we have. And even if I understand that you can have more traction on social media with some titles or strong apps, most of the time the results are overinterpreted or oversold. So this is one of the problems. So these matrix that are created by companies, most of the time are instrument to be competitive on the market. So this can buy us, of course, everything they say about this matrix. So you can't rely on what the companies are telling you. It's like to ask to a chef if they cook well. Of course, they will tell you, yeah, I'm cooking well. So you can't rely on what they say. You have to use your intuition and your capacity to critically examine the information they are telling you. First of all, if it's too good, it's unlikely true because it's not that easy. This area is plenty of uncertainty. And the reason why some matrix or some measures got traction is because they give you what you want. And what you want is something that decreases your uncertainty because we cope very bad with uncertainty. And after a while, we create this world of the illusion of control, the illusion that we are controlling the process. No, you are not controlling the process. This is outside our reach. We can try to control the process, which is different than controlling the process. And training is plenty of external factors that can influence how things are going. So as a coach, you're controlling an aspect of the life of athletes, but they have a lot of other things going on around that you don't have. Sometimes you don't even know what is going, what they are doing when they are at home. In some things, sports professional athletes, for example, in football course are monitored during training, these kind of things. But they have a personal trainer at home. And no one actually is aware of what they are doing with this personal trainer. So the monitoring that you are conducting on the field and with the club doesn't consider an important aspect of the training, which is what these athletes are doing outside the facility. So there are all these things. And after you may want to develop a prediction model to understand if the injury is, but you don't have all the information. So there are majors that I don't want to cite them, but there are majors that, in my opinion, are an absolute bullshit that are very commonly used. And the reason why I'm saying this is because people focus on the numbers and most of the time they miss the meaning of the numbers. I give you again the example of the acute chronic load ratio. When they show me the IOC model with the sweet spot, all these kind of things, I was the first time I saw that model. I said, well, but based on this model, if they recover, they increase the injury risk. And this doesn't make any sense. And when I start to explain this to my colleagues and they say, oh, yeah, you're right. So what I want to say is that they were focused so much on these numbers, 0305, 1.2, that they miss the meaning of the number because I said 05 means that you are training half of the accumulated average previous four weeks volume or whatever you're using. So based on your recovery, so after a recovering week, you're telling me that this is dangerous because they increase the injury risk. But it doesn't make any sense. If they are tired, let's say, and they're fatigued, I give them a week of recovering with a low intensity and so on. You're telling me this is bad, this is risky. It doesn't make any sense. When I start to mention this, people start to realize there was something wrong in this model. And this is the other point I always make also with my students. Now people are saying, because you know a bit more of statistics, so you spot some errors. And no, actually, that's not absolutely not true. The statistical study was the last I did. But initially, my concerns were because just looking at the numbers and what the model was saying, there were things that didn't sound right. So I just used logic in my coaching experience. And that's why I was really disappointed with some coaches because I said, look, you have trained Olympic athletes and you didn't realize that these concepts are unreasonable, at least. They don't make sense. So this is just to say that you can't, even if you are not a scientist, but you have a critical mind, you can spot some inconsistencies in some of these matrix or in the justification. So using logic can be very helpful to spot that or to smell that there's something wrong. And this means that you have to pick those majors with some grain of salt and not rely on them too much. Yeah. I think as a coach, we want one of these models to be so true because it would make our jobs so much easier. Like we have this black box of like all your tools, right? This is how I organize training. And then you're trying to, there's some art in applying that to the individual. But only if it was more formulaic could you be like, I feel very confident that what I'm doing is likely to work. Again, predicting the future. It's super hard. But we're like, look, I got numbers. This model works. And it's like, yeah, actually at face value, you just look at it a little bit sideways and you're like, maybe this model has got some holes in it, not quite there at this holy grail of like, yeah, yeah, look, you put an X, you're going to get on Y. And that's how it goes. Unfortunately. Yeah. That's more complicated. Yeah. That's very complicated. And besides the nowadays with machine learning, artificial intelligence, LLM, all these kinds of things is becoming even more complicated. But there's no, I was speaking with a friend and he was using some methods. And look, they don't work. You're wasting your time. And they realized that it was too uncomfortable with these uncertainties. So at some point, we have a very good relationship. I was very direct and straight and said, look, this is the job. The coaching is plenty of uncertainty. If you cannot cope psychologically with that, maybe it's better you change job because you have only two options. One is accept the uncertainty and you live with that or you start to create the dogmas because dogmas are the only thing that can decrease your uncertainty and to make you more comfortable with the situation. So these are the two opposite. And of course, there's maybe some gray, but people tend to polarizing these two extreme people that accept the uncertainty and people that try to create their own war, the ideal world where they think they have this illusion of control. They have this control, but in reality, it's an illusion. Tell you what, there's a lot of money in that dogma stuff though. You know, like, oh, this is my proprietary method. I am certain it's concrete, it's binary and I'll sell it to you. Yeah, but they do their job. They have a company. So I don't blame them. I mean, they are trying to sell something. It's like when you go to buy a cloth, they tell you that this is the best style and whatever. They are doing their job. So it's our job. It's up to us to be strong enough and critical enough to understand what is reasonable, what is plausible, and what is acceptable. And in the end of the day, there's always a risk-benefit analysis.  and whatever you do, there is a risk and there is a potential benefit. You have to balance these two, and this is very arbitrary, because the same situation can be perceived in a different way. So there are risks that I'm willing to take, and maybe you don't, you don't want, and the other way around, there are other situations in which you think that the benefit may be much higher than the risk, but this depends on the context. So you were mentioned in PowerLift in this part, you have to train smart, absolutely, but you have to train a lot. You can't train, you can't cut the training half-term, because you read a study that is showing you that you decrease the risk of injuries over training these kinds of things. You can't do that. I mean, you don't work. It's not going to work. Yeah, it's not going to work. So it's not easy. Of course, it is absolutely not easy. And besides, it depends a lot on the talent that you have in front of you, because I train, I had the first marathon runners I trained, and they had zero experience. These runner one, the marathon. And I never thought I was a good trainer. I just thought, oh, it's so strong. It's so talented that even with my shitty training, I was able to. Because I had to look to my trainer. Yeah, that's so full. And especially recently, I had the look and say, wow, the talent of that guy was so big that overcame all my rubbish training. Oh, yeah. No, I had a real life run-in with something like this. I put out programs for free for over a decade now, right? So if you look back 15 years ago, maybe some of my first programs, it's not that they're bad. I don't know that there's a really bad program. Just maybe good and less good and maybe more effective, less effective. And obviously, it depends on the individual. But in any case, I've been training my ass off for a long time. And to your point earlier about being a powerlifter, yeah, you do have to train a lot. And now as a master's lifter, everyone's telling me, you got to train less. Come on, you're 40 now. You got to take it down a notch. And I'm like, look, I got all this training history behind me. If I train less, I'm going to get worse. I got to train more or figure out ways to keep getting stronger. In any case, what I'm doing now, I believe in my heart of hearts to at least be the best training I can possibly come up with. Otherwise, I wouldn't do it. This guy, same age, been training half the time I have on one of my programs from like 15 years ago, shows up at a meet, kicks my ass. And I'm like, how does this guy? He just must be physically, mentally gifted, far beyond the skills that I have to deal with my shitty training. Anyway, yeah. So it's kind of a silver thing. Yeah. That's the individual response is there. Besides, the other point is that people don't understand that research normally provides you the average response in the population. They don't provide you the individual responses. You don't know exactly how people may respond. And probably you are familiar with the idea of a responder and non-responder. That's very tough because normally what you do, what people do is you try a training with an athlete. For some reason, they don't respond well or you think they are not responding and you say, well, it doesn't work. That's maybe not the case because there is a lot of variability in the responses, even in the same individual. So normally what they say before giving up, give another try, because you never know that the second time it can work. And because the way you have to read the research is always in terms of average responses in the population. So if you have 10 athletes, on average, they may respond in that way, like in the study, but on average, you don't know who is responding more than the others. And you have just to try. And you try the only way to try to repeat the same training more than once to be confident that it may be a non-responder. Yeah. The analogy I use is like if you were coaching youth athletes, right, or you were like their guidance counselor, for example, and they were like, should I play basketball? And you're like, absolutely, you should try basketball. And they're like, should I play golf? Absolutely. You should try all of these things, right? But giving up on a training program or intervention after six weeks, eight weeks, 10 weeks because it didn't work for you, is like telling that little kid after a little brush with golf and they weren't very good at it to say, you know what, golf's not for you. And it's like, well, look, they could come back a few months later and maybe they're the next Tiger Woods, right? Or you know, was it Cameron Young or whoever? So yeah, the analogy holds up. I've got two questions left for you. So first one, this is like a dystopian future, all right? Little sci-fi, little sci-fi thing for you. In a perfect world, I suppose that we'd have known training load targets or target ranges for specific goals at sports and levels of advancement within that sport, for example. Are there any examples of that happening right now or maybe training load mandates in sport? The only thing I'm familiar with, and this is not really the same, but it's like in Moto GP, for example. There's a limit on how much time you can spend practicing during the season. They're like, look, you can spend this much money and you got this much time, this many training or practice sessions. Otherwise, the risk of them crashing their brains out and not showing up on grid gets too high. Is that sort of thing happening anywhere else in sport right now? Yeah. I mean, there are, yes, there are some federations that suggest, especially for academies, it's not mandatory. These are recommendations. There are some limits in the time they should be exposed, for example, to headings because now there is this problem of concussion. There are some rules, but these rules are more precautionary strategy, even if there's not a lot of solid evidence that above or below can be dangerous. I think it's reasonable sometimes to say, okay, we don't know exactly, but let's keep it under control in some ways. It's more the kind of approach that is used with these guidelines. But yeah, there are, especially for academies and SA4 junior athletes, there are some limitations. Whether these limitations are really useful or evidence-based, I don't think so, to be honest. So it's very likely that these limits may be good for some, maybe too low for others and too high for other athletes. But in general, it makes sense that if the dangers are not negligible, that you want to introduce some sort of control. But in the future, I mean, from a theoretical, let's, you were talking about the hypothetical future. Everything prediction, understanding, in theory is doable. In theory, but we don't have the instrument to do that, even with this machine learning, all these kind of things. At the moment, we don't have the instrument. One problem is to have the measures that allow us to make these predictions. By measure, I mean the measure of various factors that can influence the outcome of the process. Now, they are wearable. So maybe in the future, there will be some new wearables that allow to collect all this information in order to be elaborated. So in theory, this can be done, like prediction of injuries can be done. In practice, we are not there, but we are very, very far from there. It's like personalized medicine. That's a hot topic. But I know some very among the best statisticians in the world saying that it's an illusion. Not because it's not doable. It's because we don't have at the moment the resources to do that. Yes. Because it's a very, they require a lot of data, a lot of elaboration, running trials to understand the responses to be. So on paper, it's doable, but we cannot with the resources we have, we cannot do that. And I use this example because when they say, look, in medicine, they are trying to win that direction, they are struggling and they have billions behind in sport that we are in need. So we are so small. It seems to me unlikely that we can do what others feel with 1000 times that our resources couldn't, couldn't do, but they are really trying to go there. You know, there's a using genetic markers, all these kinds of things, but still is very, is very difficult. But I'm saying that because statisticians said it's possible, but we don't have the resources to do that at the moment. Yeah. So everything we said prediction predicting injury, understanding individual responses, all these kinds of things is doable in theory, but we don't have the resources to do that. And I don't think in the next 10 or 20 years we go, 20 years, I don't know, but in the next 10 years, I don't see this possible. I know these will disappoint people, especially companies, but as I told you, I'm happy to have an open conversation with anyone because in the end of the day, that's my opinion. But if you have a different opinion, and we are talking about science, we need also to show some some evidence. And I don't think there are. Yeah, I do think that all of these questions are theoretically answerable. But to your point, yeah, whether it's the technology limitation, resource limitation, both, or just, you know, we don't even know what to measure. Like there are multiple gaps in what we know right now that would limit that. But I'm just thinking like, all right, what is 20 years, 50 years, 100 years from now, you know, little Timmy wants to go out for football or whatever. You put him on a conveyor belt, they swab the inside of his cheek and, you know, do a pan scan of him. And they're like, this guy needs X for his training load, you know, based on what we know now. That would be cool. I think that would be cool. That would be cool. But there will be no coach anymore because you have to do that with an algorithm. You don't need anyone. And perhaps in this dystopian future, everybody ends up being the same level of good at their sport. Right. And then there is no, there are no winners and losers anymore. It's all draws. And then, yeah, then we're really in a pickle. But yeah, just the thought. Okay. This is the last question. And I know this is a recent paper. It doesn't directly have to do with measuring training load or maybe more practical example. The recent review, I think it's from last year, was on skill acquisition in sport. And for listeners who haven't read this paper, I put in the show notes, a good chunk of the papers were on golf as a golfer. I liked that. But the majority of studies were inexperienced athletes, inexperienced subjects, and there was only like short term follow up for most of them. So a little less excited about that. But limitations to the methodology and inclusion of the included subjects aside. How does the concept of training load intersect with or inform the process of like acquiring and mastering sports related skills? That's actually, there is a good friend of mine. His name is your transcend was an expert in skill acquisition. And it is also very critical about the area. I mean, he has a very critical approach that, you know, there are different theories about the volume of the practice that you need to master something with some thinking that the more you do the better and some thinking that's not necessarily true. I don't think I see both points. I see, I think there are sports in which practice is important. And the more you do the better, I have no doubts about that. Golf may be some of one of these to be honest. Super high skill, whatever. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. And, but from monitoring perspective, we come back as before. We don't know how much is enough for each individual. So the only thing you can do is to monitor the practice based on what you, what is your philosophy of coaching or what you think is is useful. But from that, I'm very. I think quality is important, but I still think that quantity has an important role in any sport. Now people move towards doing less and better. But it depends less than what. If it's less than the same moderate volume of training, I don't think this is going to work. But less is better if the quality and it's good because if you are a high level after you are already training a lot. So in that situation, even increasing just a bit may be the thing that induce over training, over reaching or all these kind of things. So when you are at that level training a bit less and with better quality or optimizing what you're doing actually can make the difference. But at that level, but I think that that level are very few at least are at that level. Most of the athletes are even good at this are still in an in an area where quantity, quantity matters. It's not the same thing. It's like when we discuss about injury prevention, improving strength and different population. Yeah, improving. I'm sure it can be helpful for several reasons, but improving strength in someone that is already strong is different than improving strength in someone that is like saying weak. So yeah, first of all, it's much more difficult to improve strength in someone is already strong and secondly, effects may be different, at least in terms of magnitude. So when we generalize finding from the studies, we need also to think about the population. Besides, I'm not saying that you cannot apply studies in other population in your population, but the entity of the changes may be much different. So you can maybe have improvement that are negligible or you cannot even measure these improvement in some populations. So, but for in general, for from a skill acquisition perspective, I still think that the quantity is important also because the quality is a very weird concept. It's not easy to understand because quality movements means to have a standard. Why there may be a lot of individual differences depending on the individual characteristics. So it's much more difficult to understand the to have a reference standard for technique or whatever. Yeah, well, people say that all the time. They're like, well, look, your perfect practice makes perfect. And so, for example, in powerlifting, which is the we charitably call it a sport and I happen to participate in that activity. They're like, well, look, you got to have perfect squat form and technique. And I'm like, what is that? I mean, we're based on the sport. There are some constraints to the squat. For example, the bar has to be on your back. You have to get below parallel and you have to start from a locked out position, right? And then racket under your own, your own power. But there are many variations within that. And further, if you're saying, well, I'm not talking about that. I'm just saying in your training, you have to squat. What's perfect for you. And I'm like, well, what if I happen to get out of position on the platform? Isn't it nice to have some additional strategies to try to overcome the load? So I make the lit, you know, there's to your point. There's probably some benefit to like just getting exposed more and more often. So you have your practicing, right? But it doesn't have to be the rigid model of like only this way. Can you practice? I think that's. Well, that's that's actually a very good example because powerlifting, weightlifting. Is where I see a lot of a bit of a mess, meaning that. No, because I have very, actually very good friends who are coaches and those who are international athletes. And if you speak with them or you speak with other, say, coaches at lower level, these are the one at higher level are the one that are more aware about individual differences that they don't, they don't have the fixation with the perfect technique. So they allow for some, let's say, individual adjustments much more than the lower level coaches and athletes. And I agree with them, because at the end of the day, you may have an idea of technique, but this can be adjusted by the different individual that they tend to adapt to their characteristics. While when you speak with others, they, I mean, I have seen videos of world champions and posted on social media and tons of comments about the bad technique, all these things. I said, what the fuck? I mean, if this person won the world championship day they won, it's effective because they, by definition, so yeah, yeah, it can be better, but still is one of the best in the world. So eventually this technique is good for the performance because in the end of the day, what people don't understand is that power lifting, weight lifting is a performance based sport. So in the end of the day, what matters is how much load you lift. That's, that's so the more, the better. So any strategy that allow these athletes to lift more than others, allow them to win or to compete at the high level. So that's the, they are not evaluated based on the technique is not the gymnastics, you know, that with the referees say, oh, this is good. This is bad. In the end of the day, and this is why I like because it's very pragmatic sport. I mean, they, they have to lift as much as they can. And actually in theory, they can use, okay, within some constraint, other variations, any variations of techniques. So it's, it's okay, but this is the fixation with these, you know, small changes, the weight about the Chinese and the technique of the Chinese. Well, another point, and I don't want to take too much time, but something people don't understand is that elite sport, we are working with the survivors. So the survival bias is very important. And you find this problem a lot also in studies. When you compare elite athletes with other people, you, basically you're comparing orange with apples because they are a selection. So you don't know if they are using a technique that is good for them. You cannot generalize to other individuals because the one that you see at the top of the pyramid are the one that survived over the years. So it's possible that the technique they are using have destroyed thousands of other people and they are the only one that can cope with that specific technique that allow them to live more than others. So these kind of comparisons are very difficult to do. And I normally want people don't compare elite with others because elite are a very selected population. And it's very likely that they are the survivor or also bad techniques. Hey, yeah, present company included. Well, because people, they do ask, they're like, hey, look, should I just do your program? You want to just publish the program you're running? I'll buy it so I can run it. And I'm like, financial motivations aside, I'm not sure that what I'm doing is going to work for you. And then the reason why I've been able to persist so long in this sport and achieve some monocom of success is probably related to things that unique things that make me me. And if you don't have those same unique characteristics, I would just be setting you up for failure and I can't, I can't abide that. So yeah, it's like the other people that I've been competing with for these 15 years, we are far different than the people who started competing. They did it for two years and then burnt out. And so if I was creating my prototypical power lifter who's going to go be a world beater and persist at the top of sport for years, yep, they'd respond awesome to resistance training. They gain a lot of muscle mass and a lot of strength. Yep, they'd have a really robust musculoskeletal system to start with. Thick joints, everything else. And they'd have a great work ethic and they'd also be super resistant to injury because like you need all of those things to survive. And it's like the strongest potential powers, whatever, you know, it's got to be some mix of that, but there's somebody who maybe is potentially their max volitional isometric contract of force is higher, but they can't sustain the training. And so they can't ever, you know, sustain this, that, that and be at the top of sport. But yeah, I, I completely agree, but training a lot more and you all these kinds of things should be seen from this perspective. So in the context of uncertainty, individual responses, all these kinds of things. So the only thing you can do is to monitor training just to understand whether your program is going in the direction that you plan. And that's why what you measure depends on your training program. There's not such a gold measure. It's up to you and people don't accept that. They want to measure and every time they ask me what, what do I use? I don't know what you can use. I mean, there are tons of majors. Some are good. Some are maybe not that good, but it really depends. If you have designed your training based on time, you may, you measure time. If we, because there are two different kinds of discussions. One is about how we monitor training and the other is how we plan a training. So if I agree with the training, because when I work with the, with teams and sometimes they, I provide what I think is better to monitor what they are doing. It doesn't mean that I agree with what they are doing. I'm just saying, OK, if you want to do that, it's your job, you are paid for that. You are fired if you fail. So my job is to help you in doing what you want to do without questioning anything. If you ask me an opinion, I can provide my opinion, what I would do or why I don't agree. But in the end of the day, it's the, is a coach decision. So to summarize, I trust coaches and I work around coaches. They are the one training athletes. And if, as a sports scientist, I need to help you. The level of help depends on what kind of help you want from me. If it's just monitoring or you want to discuss about the strategy, you may say, I'm doing this because of these reasons. I can say, OK, these reasons make sense. These are actually not really supported by evidence. So maybe it works, but not for that reason, for example. And besides, I much prefer a very elaborated and solid reasoning than the use of weak evidence. So that's always where I separate from a practical perspective, the people I trust and the people I don't trust in terms of coaching. I was going to ask you, what's the one thing you want people to take away from this? And you just did it. You're a natural. Like if you don't have a podcast yet, maybe consider it. You know, just all the extra time that you have. I told you I'm a boomer for these things. And I have this atop because of the manipulation of my sons to buy them all the equipment. But yeah, I know that most of the time people don't have from me the answers they want. And I can't give the answer they want. I'm sorry. Yeah, I was hoping you were going to tell me how to get stronger. But turns out we just I know less now than I started. So yeah, I mean, you I can tell you have to train more. Yeah, I like that. I'm here for that. I'm here for that. As long as I get to live more and you survive, you may be stronger. That's never never spoken. I like that. Where can people find you? I know like I'm going to list there's a Google Scholar page with all of your publications. So I'll link that. Is there any way for people to interface with you on social media? Are you are you are a learner? Do you post? What do you do? I'm I'm I'm in social media. I'm on X. I'm on blue sky. I'm on social media. But in the last years, I move a bit away from social media. I read the posts. I work post. I don't interact as much as in the past because I'm quite. I am Italian. Sometimes I cannot control myself. So I decide to to move a bit away and and and and joke apart also because I found recently it was a bit too toxic as an environment. So I read just to have an idea what is happening, but I find more and more difficult to interact because I am very critical, but I like to have this kind of conversation to have an intellectual opponents. Most of my co-authors and my colleagues are intellectual opponents. But this kind of interaction is becoming more and more difficult and people get offended very easily. So just to say I'm on social media. I don't interact a lot, but I read comments and posts and these kind of things. Well, if you're out there and you're commenting on training load, just know that Dr. And pillow series is reading your stuff. He's kind of like Santa Claus. He sees you, you know, and you've been naughty. He's when you've been nice. Yeah, I'll link all of all of this stuff in the show notes. But really, thank you so much for joining us for having and for the invitation. Thank you very much.

=== FILE: How-To Train Around Anatomical Limitations [FRmudtXGWeU].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. This question is about how to approach trening with hard bio-mechanical restrictions. So this individual recently found out through an x-ray that he's got a possible bone spur on the front of his ankle that severely limits his ankle mobility on that ankle. Basically he can't move his shan any further forward than vertical on that leg which makes squats a little weird sometimes and he has a tendency to twist at the bottom of the squat if he's not paying enough attention. So this is interesting because you're going to have people with certain anatomical variations, some people post operatively that won't be able to do certain exercises. So just havinGHard bio-mechanical restrictions, although I think when we say they can't do a particular exercise, we need to have some sort of standard that we're saying okay because you can't achieve this particular standard. Yeah I don't necessarily view it as you can't do this exercise so much as it is a position that you may be unable to achieve at that particular moment in time and then the nature of your restriction may be one that with time, with trening, with you know, adaptation, you may be able to progress to achieve that position, other things, maybe a little more set in stone and you may not be necessarily able to just gradually progress towards a certain position which brings up some other questions which is I imagine what this is kind of getting at. Yeah so I think you know if this individual is having trouble squatting right and I would say all right well is the trouble the twist at the bottom of the squat because I don't necessarily view that as like a hard stop you can't squat. You might squat with a twist or with a lean or with you know some other sort of thing that may not be aesthetically pleasing based on what we've been cultured to believe. Condition rather to a perfect squat but that doesn't mean you can't squat and what do IMean by squat IMean you know simultaneous hip and knee flexion to this arbitrary death standard with a straight seven foot barbell. You know you remember watching I think it was cloak off who always pulls with a staggered stance he is like one foot that's like a couple inches in front of another and you know certain people on the internet would get pretty triggered by that but it's he's been doing it for decades and you're not super strong doing it without any apparent you know not to hit with no detriment sure being apparent from it. Yeah so I feel like if you can't do a particular exercise to your desired standard I would first then just evaluate that standard like why does that standard exist because if it's just kind of like an arbitrary constrent you're placing upon yourself due to a value system imparted on you from somebody else I don't know that that holds much water. Now if this if you can't in this case for example a squat if you you can't squat to anywhere near parallel without substantial variation in like your movement patterns so it's not repeatable without substantial difficulties having some sort of efficient movement pattern meaning like the bar path is all over the place for example you're losing balance or whatever and you can't develop any proficiency to mitigate those first two things the repeatability of the efficiency of the thing then I don't know that that movement is you know suitable for you I just call us the rep model of like exercise selection so is it repeatables it efficient right and then are you meeting the points of performance of that particular exercise whatever you decide them you know determine them to be so in this case I think this guy can probably squat if the twist was so bad again that it was not repeatable really sacrificing a ton of efficiency and he couldn't like you know if the twist was like throwinGHim forward onto his toes under heavier loads and that might be present a little more of an issue sure sure yeah and in that case I would move to a different trening exercise to tren the lower extremities if you can trap our deadlift sure if you can pull normally those are to you know ton of different movement patterns that would be fine leg press if you could split squat if you can do a higher box squat IMean you know there's so many different options a belt squat for example might be easier because you get to sit back a little further depending on the apparatus but effectively like at the end of the day you're trying to tren the major muscle groups multiple times per week through ranges of motion that are useful and I know that what does that mean what does useful well it depends on what's your trening for if you're trying to for a very specific sport athletic you know competition then the useful ranges of motion are kind of defined for you same thing with like movement velocities are like you know narrow down for you if you're just trening for life or to be healthy well the world is your oyster you can pick a bunch of different exercise a bunch of different ranges of motion and so you want to tren the major muscle groups multiple times per week through you know different ranges of motion likely and and different movement patterns and you know it's intentionally vague that way because it just depends what you want to do yeah I'm going to come at this maybe a little bit differently I think it's it's wise to look at this and say um what is the what is the standard that you're aiming to to meet with this movement I agree determining is the issue here that you're struggling to achieve depth because you want to go compete and meet sure well in that case how that you want to compete and meet if you want to compete and meet real bad then you need to make some other accommodations in your movement because you don't have the option to not squat to certain depth in your right and so if it's that important to you then we need to think about what are the potential interventions that we that we can use here right so one would be if we are very very confident that this restriction is due to this ankle spur which may not be sure you know it may it maybe one of those things where you experience some discomfort and we went looking we took a picture we found this thing we blamed it we do that all the time with back pain and other things but if we're fairly convinced that it's related to this um obviously that's more of an anatomic kind of structural limitation right so we say I don't care I want to find a way to squat to depth and meet well the first thing is it seems like he can squat with a vertical shin so that means you can probably take his stance pretty wide it goes out he can do like west side style you know pretty pretty vertical shin squat and that may just need to be his style given that limitation another option might be go and find the weightlifting shoes with the highest effective heel height so I think they're like the edetus lifestyles or something like that have a full like one inch heel height and then that you see how much you can get out of that in terms of that elevation in the heel may give you you know an extra inch of forward knee travel um uh in a squat or some combination maybe use both those heels and a wide stance squat and you may be able to do just fine with that if none of those things are getting you to where you want to be and you still say I insist I need to be able to squat well then you need to address the thing directly and if we're very convinced that it's there then shit go get surgery you cut the thing out you know um those are kind of the ways that I'd be looking at this is how can IModify the exercise of this and equipment that that I can use like the like the heel height with the shoes to to help me get there or do I need to go in an intervene on this thing and all of that is couched in IMust be able to squat to a particular depth that I cannot otherwise do right now if comp competitive goals you know certain uh uh uh depth standards are not really in the picture then yeah I wouldn't get too concerned about this just based on the slight twist alone that doesn't spook me I used to twist actually a fair amount of my squat I'm working on that and in your garage years ago um but uh that wouldn't that wouldn't worry me um compared to compared to the other stuff yeah if the ex like I said if the technique is repeatable someone efficient and it's meaning all the points of performance that you have for that particular movement pattern the rep models if you I'm cool with it and if you happen to twist that's fine yeah and for talking about the from like a health promoting standpoint like all the stuff just went out the window I have zero of the service about that my I'm more concerned about your progression loading programming etc this exercise being inherently dangerous so what I'm doing yeah cool

=== FILE: How-To Warm-Up For Deadlifts [BbRJTET9ZsA].txt ===

Alright, so this is the Barbell Medicine Deadlift Forma from a Deadlift workout that Dr. Austin Baraki and I did not too long ago. So Austin's getting ready for deficit deadlifts. I'm getting ready for tempo deadlifts, but we're both going to start with empty barbell deadlifts. This is kind of like a Romanian deadlift, which typically starts at the top and you trace the bar down your legs to a little bit below the kneecap. Usually a few inches. I'd like to think of these as extended range of motion RDLs. You're going to go a little bit further to where the barbell would start if it had plates on it. Now, it typically recommend 2 to 6 sets of 5-8 reps. The idea is you're trying to actually make the muscle warmer and increase the temperature and also get mentally prepared for the task at hand, which in this case is deadlifting. So some external cues that I like is to feel the steel of the barbell, drag the bar up and down the legs, keep it in context. You should feel the steel. And some internal cues that I like are to initiate the movement downwards by pushing the hips back and then also do stand tall at the top. We're not paying much attention here to what the back is doing. Am I in flexion? Am I in extension? Is this quote unquote neutral spine? The reality of it is no matter how you set up, no matter how you deadlift, the spine is going to actively flex when the bar leaves the floor. Now, if you have a lot of flexion or a lot of other spinal movement or some other technique that you'd like to correct to improve efficiency, you can work on those during the empty barbell sets. And then also, obviously, as you're warming up, your work sets should be just C bar, lift bar, because at that point your technique should be relatively dialed for that day. So we did a few sets, abouT3 sets with the empty barbell and go straight to 135. And you can see myself doing tempo work. So I deadlift the weight and set it down under control, because I'm trying to extend the eccentric portion of the lift for this tempo deadlift. Austin is going to switch to deficit poles. So he's using two mats here to space himself up on the ground and crease their engine motion. And you can see he is an active spinal flexion. And we'll discuss that a little bit later, but this isn't really a problem. If you don't make it to the end of the video, he's just actively trying to adapt to that to make a spine more resilient. Now Austin's best pole is 720 pounds, my best pole is 738 pounds. So we typically take plate jumps all the way up to either the midfives or even up to 600 or higher just depends on the day. So we went right to 225. I'm doing doubles. Austin's actually going to work up to a heavy single, but at this point he's still doing reps to try to get warm. So that was 225. This is 315. And again, I'm personally and working on controlling the eccentric. That's the lift for the day. And I'm using those same external cues dragging them all up and down my legs, keeping in contact, feeling the steel. And then initiating the movement downwards, if I push my hips back. Now since Austin is doing a normal tempo, so not extending the eccentric, you can see his lifting velocity is much faster on the eccentric. And I'm still trying to actually move the weight concentrically as quickly as possible. So that's one thing. We really try to coach folks is during the concentric. So on the upwards phase of the deadlift, the upwards phase of the squat, upwards phase of the bench press, or press, trying to move the weight as quickly as possible, obviously while retaining control of the barbell. So again, we jumped from 135 to 225 to 315 to 405 now for 95. Still not using the belt. Austin's actually going to stay beltless during this whole session. Me, I typically don't put my belt on until I get into the mid-fives or over 600 again. It just depends on the jumps I'm taking that day. This is 565. Nice little pull. There, this is 585. And again, extending the eccentric, trying to set the bar down very slowly. And typically, my second rep ends up being slower on the way down because I kind of get into the groove, but we're only doing doubles here. So we'll try to clen up that first rep. Now this is 600 pounds. This is Austin's top single, I believe, from the day. Again, beltless, off a deficit. And yeah, he was in some spinal flexion, but you can tolerate it just fine. And this is my top set, 660, first set of two. Again, trying to move away as quickly as possible during the concentric, even though I know I have to slow it down on the way down. So not as easy to do when you know you have to go slow. So the first rep was probably a little too fast for my preferences on a tempo deadlift, but now I get to go real slow. And that's pretty much our deadlift workout and warm up. Six, six, seven, seven, seven. What's going on? So we basically just did our little deadlift warm up. What we did to deadlift workout. Whole things, basically the same. What are you thinking about when you're warming up on a deadlift? Uh, not really a whole lot to the honest. Right. IMean, I think we've both been deadlifting long enough that it doesn't take a lot of active thought. I think that one thing I do pay attention to, basically from the empty bar on up, is basically like outfields in my hands. Basically at a point where I can kind of get a feel for am I strong today or not as strong today based on how heavy a certain weight feels. Yeah, sure like the velocity of which a reference weight kind of moves probably. But even like when I pick up the empty bar to warm up, if I'm having like a day where I'm like super beat down and very tired, can kind of tell the bar feel a little bit heavier. I don't necessarily base a conclusion on that and say it's going to be a bad day, but I do take that into account and say, I need to pay attention to how 70 kilos, 120 kilos, whatever each jump that I take, how it feels in terms of. Because it heavier than this normal feels, it's lighter than this one with feels, it's about right. And then that helps me kind of calibrate and narrow down my ultimate weight selection for my top. Yeah. Yeah, I don't want people to percevereate like on the, how does the weight feel like what am I going to do? But yeah, you're just using it the whole way up to kind of figure out like to converge upon your working sets for the day. Yeah, and it's something that I don't necessarily put a ton of active thought into. It's just something that I like can ignore. So I'm not thinking about my technique at this point anymore. It just kind of happens. I'm like, oh, you know, things feel really fast today. And when it feels light, I definitely like hype that up in my own mind. And when it feels not great, I'm like, let's see how the next jump feels. Yeah, so I kind of play a little confirmation by myself. You need a direction. Just to give myself the best shot on that day of having a good session. Are you worried about your back flexing during a warm up? Because you're not as mobile as you would after some, you know, I'm not. I know my back is flexing all the time. Regardless, whether it looks flat or not. And yeah, it's not really huge. I'd rather I'd rather a dad to decent degree of spinal flexion. So it's more resilient. I can tolerate that position better, even under heavier loads, which it does. Yeah, I would also for beginners. I would make a stronger case for them doing less warmups. Because they're more easily fatigable than trened lifters. So if they did a bunch of extra stuff, they'd probably be worse under the barbell. Just because warm up volume counts as trening volume. Yeah. So there's something coming from that. I see it's got where the rain is covered on the run. I see it trembling all too.

=== FILE: Hypertrophy for Strength Athletes [INHi9m-zWMY].txt ===

All right, related does a strength athlete ever achieve enough hypertrophy? Is there a point in the athletes development whether there is no longer a need to make the muscle larger and only to make them stronger? It's a complicated question. So enough hypertrophy. IMean, that's like saying, you know, you ever get jacked enough. You ever make too much money? IMean, I don't know that you can say yes to that. So as far as in an athletes development where they no longer need to make the muscles larger and only need to make them stronger, that assumes that these happen independently. And I don't know that I view them as like two independent processes. I think that the amount of muscle mass increase that occurs, that co-ocurs with strength increase particularly at high level strength athletes is much smaller than when a occurs in like physique athletes, bodybuilders, et cetera, who are primarily just trening for size increases and not at all for strength increases. But I think that there's still some hypertrophy occurring nonetheless even if it's relatively small. Now that being said, the actual hypertrophy process is rather complicated as far as like does the myophibrular hypertrophy just the contractile protein? Is that precede some of the sarcoplasma hypertrophy which tends to create a more substantial increase in muscle cross-sectional area or does the one, you know, precede the other. That stuff's still being assessed out. And so this is still an active area of research. But for from a practical standpoint, I think trying to get as jacked as possible using what while still doing the specific exercises, the specific for your sport and the correct intensity ranges to make them go up would be the goal. I don't ever think you say, I'm jacked enough. I'm going to cut the volume down. Yeah, this part last part of this question or it says there's no longer a need to make the muscles larger and only to make them stronger. I think that creates an kind of an artificial dichotomy or separation between those two things. When really, at least there's there is to be fair some debate in the research world about how much hypertrophy contributes to strength development and performance. But I tend to lean on the side and I think you probably do too that strength performance of a particular muscle, one of the contributing factors to that strength potential is muscle size. The other major contributor would be the neurological like the skill, the recruitment kind of aspect of it. And so you can't really say I don't need to make the muscle larger and only to make it stronger when muscle size is probably a contributor to muscle strength. And so I think that to the extent that you want to continue making your muscle stronger, you should strive to make them larger as well. And I don't think there's actually a way for you to aim to make them stronger without generating some amount of hypertrophy along the way in the process.

=== FILE: Is Bulking and Cutting a Good Strategy？ [B13p0KbQzC0].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. This is for the old Misk forums from Bodybuilding.com. Is bulky and cutting the best method for long-term hypertrophy? I just don't know how you're going to get around it. Is the deal. So when you go look at actual scientific evidence on this in-body builders or people who identify as bodybuilders because not like they've all competed. Which is also weird like in the literature. They they they they they set out of flyer like are you a body builder you want to sign up for this study and it's like how do you make sure like show me your NPC that people will gain more lean body mass when they gain more weight. So the more weight you gain and to give in time frame they tend to gain more lean body mass. They also gain more fat mass during that time too. So and there's a huge inter-initual variation with how much lean body mass that people are going to gain and how much fat mass that people are going to gain too. So you know you could have even twins like groups of twins fed the same amount of calorie surplus and one group of twins that are identical are going to gain way more lean body mass compared to the other group of twins. If you want to get bigger and gain more muscle mass I don't see a way around like you're going to have to go into a calorie surplus at some point and then likely you're going to have to go two periods of time where you're reducing fat mass as far as what's the best like stair step model versus like a you know bulk then cut and then maintenance. I don't know that I have hard feelings on that. I do tend to prefer having weight stabilization periods at every step of the game. So when people gain weight they gain a significant amount of muscle mass. I want them to like maintain that weight and then when people lose weight, lose body fat. I want them to maintain that little weight. This weight stabilization period for a couple of weeks before they you know do anything with their calories. You might set yourself up for failure if you do not have these weight stabilization phase. Particularly after weight loss people are like I just lost weight. I'm prime. I'm super animal. I'm going to gain all the lean body mass quickly and it's like actually the biggest signal that your body has physiologically is to restore fat mass. Like so yeah you're the most animal I can ever be but for fat mass not for muscle. Not the cool kind. Not the cool kind. Yeah. So that's the approach I tend to do with the understanding that gaining a lot of lean body mass is going to take a long time. It should be a slow process. That's why like when people like how much of a surplus do I need to be and I'm like it's got small 250 calories, maybe 500 calories and then it's going to take up long time for you to do this anyway and gaining weight rapidly is a good way to gain a lot of fat mass rapidly unless you have great genetics. Right. So and gaining fat mass rapidly is probably not the move, particularly from a health standpoint. So yeah I don't know what the best method is for long term hyper-feet if it's like again just cycling but bulking and cutting but I do like the weight stabilization phases and I like making sure that people are the good candidates for either goal. So if you're already carrying too much fat mass is the bulk. Right. Yeah if your BMI is 30 year above, do not pass go, do not collect $100. Don't bulk. If your weights are conference is approaching that sort of cut point where you have an increased rate of obesity related diseases which there's a specific to your ethnicity. It's about 37 inches for guys for example. Do not don't bulk and in fact you probably should lose weight then probably better. Anything else you want to add to that? Yeah I agree with the fact that with the idea that you're probably not going to be able to get around it I think that there's similarly there to the extent that there may even be a best way to go about it. Right. It is probably going to vary between people like the super freaky genetic people. There may be a better strategy for them and then for people at the other end you know might be in the other direction. The problem is that like you said this is a very very long process and so we don't have any trials comparing bulking cutting group to like people who just steadily maintain like a hundred to 200 calorie surplus for like decades and see who gets more jacked like 20 years later. So we can't necessarily know or predict that but life is going to you know probably like in I've never deliberately like aggressively bulked or cut I have like gradually gained weight primarily for strength performance not necessarily with any hypertrophy you know goals myself but then like you know hospital work gets tough and I unintentionally cut because shit happens and so I've kind of effectively ended up in that situation just as a result of life but yeah it's all I've had. Yeah like that.

=== FILE: Is Calories In Calories Out Legit？ [zmcfjzDMJTM].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter women's coaches and the rest, you know, men don't understand weight loss in women because it's hormones. I assume they're not talking about like hormones at the level of the brain, because in which case I could make maybe an argument there. So why is there this controversy? I think it's mainly because weight management is difficult. Very, very challenging, you know, and even when you look at some of like the observational research on this, it's pretty interesting. So obesity rates are increasing, but self-reported food intake and food availability data suggests that that's decreasing amidst self-reported increases in exercise, albeit modest. So for example, adjusted mean energy intake of U.S. adults decreased in the period between 2003 and 2004 compared to 2009 and 2010 by about 100 calories or so. And during the same period of time, obesity rates went up by about three and a half, 4%. And so there are alternate models that have been produced. So this carbohydrate insulin model where people who eat more carbohydrates or insulin levels go up, that causes more fat storage independently of energy intake. That's the sort of idea behind the carbohydrate insulin model, CIM. And there's been other models around like ultra processed foods that like, okay, these ultra processed foods are devoid of various micronutrients and other sort of things. And, you know, it's not about calories just because you don't have all these nutrients and that makes you, you know, gain weight. Let's see if we can come to a consensus here. To date, there have been no successful challenges to the energy balance model for long-term weight management outside of a relatively rare condition called lipedema. The short-term changes in weight are mostly related to body water, so fluid, so gaining water weight, losing water weight. And overall, people vastly underestimate their energy intake. And it's generally worse in folks with excess body fat, excess adipose tissue. On average, people underestimate their energy intake by about 30%, but there's a wide range here. And people tend to overestimate their energy expenditure on average. The total amount or relative amount depends on the comparator. So like, how are you assessing, like, is this person's estimation correct or accurate or not, but compared to extremely accurate measures of energy expenditure? So doubly labeled water. People have overestimated their energy expenditure by over a hundred percent when recalling their activity level over the previous year. The other part of this is that exercise, because people count exercise, obviously, as part of their total daily energy expenditure. Well, it's not purely additive to your total daily energy expenditure. So for total daily energy expenditure, you have, you know, you basic life supporting processes, like keep the lights on that cost energy. There's some amount of energy that's required to digest, metabolize, and otherwise store your food. And there's energy that's required to power yourself to move about your environment. And then exercise on top of that would be quote additive, meaning like, oh, well, I walked for an hour or two hours or did resistance training. People think, well, I burned X amount of calories here. So I just add that on top. That's not exactly accurate, especially in the chronic, like chronic exercisers. So people who've been doing it for more than six months. And so your body just tends to compensate by using less energy for these other processes to some degree. It varies amongst individuals and weight regulation and dietary practices are complex. So people, when they're losing weight or gaining weight, there's some level of what we call metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis. So some people who are quote, like resistant to weight gain, well, their metabolism will speed up when they eat more and overfeeding studies or overfeeding situations. Similarly, when people are exposed to an energy deficit, some folks will be resistant to lose weight, their metabolism will slow down a little bit. And same thing with hunger and satiety. These are very complex processes, and the body may defend a certain sort of range of body weight. We'll talk about that more in one of these future controversy questions in this episode. So again, no successful challenges to energy balance. The ultra processed food thing. Yeah, they tend to have more calories and are less filling, thereby increasing energy intake on balance. So it doesn't really challenge the calories in calories out sort of final common pathway. And so yeah, it still remains as the proximate cause of weight management. Um, it's undefeated. If your energy intake is greater than the amount of calories that you burn, you will gain weight 100%, 10 out of 10 by definition. And if you burn more calories than you consume, you'll lose weight. Uh, unless again, there's some major fluid shifts that are going on for some other reason. This still encompasses all possible contributions from hormones, processed foods, individual variation, and so on. But in saying all of that, and I think when people really are pushing back against calories in calories out, what they mean, what they truly mean is that, Hey, look, this isn't a great sort of strategy for a lot of people to lose weight. They're like, look, calorie counting calories didn't work for me. So calories in calories out. It's BS. Like, well, no, what you're saying is that that particular intervention is not particularly helpful for a large swath of population. And I agree with that. Crazy those days. I agree with that. You can pay professionals, nutritionists, registered dietitians to, you know, quote, track their calories and they're still off of their, you know, the actual amount of energy that they're taking in. So can you imagine what it's like in the general public? And it just, yeah, I agree that counting calories is probably not a great intervention, but that doesn't mean that energy balance isn't like the rule or the law here. Yeah. It's, I think, uh, easiest said that it is accurate, but not useful for, for, for a lot of people. And I sometimes think about it in terms of like internal and external validity, which are some science-y terms relating to when you do an ultra rigorous study under very particular conditions, uh, that might not always translate into what it is like kind of quote unquote in the real world. And so if you lock people up in a metabolic ward study and you control every calorie that enters their mouth and, and is absorbed and is then metabolized into usable energy by their body. And you are also in control to the extent that you have control over it, over their energy expenditure, i.e., for example, their activity and things like that. Uh, then you can have, uh, quite, uh, confident and rigorous models and predictive methods to assess their body weight changes over time. The model will hold quite well in that sort of a situation. But then as soon as you exit that metabolic ward chamber and you put people out in the real world, uh, it is much more difficult to execute, uh, something like that to that level of rigor. And so the, it's not to say that the energy balance situation is no longer accurate, but rather it is not kind of experienced in the same way. And so when you are just, when, when you are kind of reducing the weight management equation down to this for people, it's almost implied that it is the strategy. It's like, oh, it's the final common pathway. So that is the level where you should intervene. And maybe that's not the level where you should intervene. And people are finding other kind of levels of this biology where interventions are more productive or more effective, either broadly speaking, or for a given person. And so maybe intervening at that final common pathway is actually not the best place. And I think that is reflected in our own thoughts on this, where we're like a better place to intervene on this is that like the food environment level, for example, right? If that were feasible, because then that would have this cascade of downstream effects and benefits that ultimately would impact the calorie intake and potentially even the calorie, you know, uh, output, uh, side of the sides of the equation, but not by intervening all the way at the end, where we tell people just be in this like toxic food environment where you don't have to do anything. Um, you know, you can get ultra tasty foods that have little satiating effects with like no activity requirements in, in life. Um, and just like stop eating, right. Which is, that's a functionally what that's saying is when you're intervening at the end versus whether that type of how, how available that type of thing is at all is a much, uh, stronger determinant of people's likelihood to obtain and consume it. So I do think of it in terms of this internal external validity thing. And so the scientists who are thinking in terms of internal validity, metabolic ward studies, to some extent are talking past the folks who are attacking calories in calories out, even the clinicians who you mentioned at the outset who were saying it doesn't work. And it's like, well, it's not a thing that can work or not. It is like the biological fact, but when you say it doesn't work, it suggests that you are viewing this as an intervention with poor external validity when applied to the real world that we all live in. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, I would just also finally point out that any alternate model and their proposed interventions from that alternate model, whether it's carb reduction for the carbohydrate insulin model, whether it's reduction in ultra processed foods from this processed food, uh, sort of, sort of model, they all dovetail into this final common pathway of reducing energy intake compared to energy expenditure when matched for calories in, there's no weight loss advantage from having a, from consuming a low carbohydrate diet outside of short-term weight, uh, water weight losses, same thing for ultra processed foods or whatever. If there was this huge benefit, we tell you about it. Yeah. We'd be the first to tell you. Uh, but instead we're just telling you to maybe ignore these folks, uh, that are advice surrounding, um, calories in, calories out because ultimately misinformation. Agree. All right. Cool. END

=== FILE: Is Cane Sugar Really Healthier Than High Fructose Corn Syrup？ (The Science) [JU7QOfvNa9o].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter Is there controversy? Well, like I've always said, and I've been saying this for years, maybe since the start of horrible medicine, it's the three Cs that people are bad at. That's chemistry, critical thinking, and Coke. I've been saying it forever. People know this. So with chemistry, first we can take sweeteners and put them into two groups, nutritional and non-nutritional sweeteners. Nutritional sweeteners have calories, contain energy. Non-nutritional sweeteners do not have calories or energy. So that non-nutritional sweeteners would be things like aspartame, stevia, et cetera, whereas nutritional sweeteners, there are basically three types of these. There's a monosaccharide, so there's one type of chemical. That would be like fructose and glucose. There's a disaccharide, so there's two types of chemicals that are bonded together. That's like sucrose, right? This would be glucose and fructose bonded together. And then there's polyols, like a sugar alcohol. So we'll focus now on disaccharides, right? So table sugar, sucrose, and high-fructose corn syrup. Those are both disaccharides. So cane sugar or, quote, real sugar is sugar derived from sugar cane. That's a tropical grass. It's called cane sugar instead of just sugar to differentiate it from sugar derived from other sources like sugar beets, but they're chemically the same. It's 50% fructose and 50% glucose bonded together. Now, you compare that to high-fructose corn syrup. This is a blend of, yep, you guessed it, fructose and glucose, but just in different proportions compared to cane sugar. So it's either 42% or 55% fructose, and the rest of it is glucose. So slightly different as far as proportions, but chemically they are the same. It's fructose and glucose together. So that's the first thing that people are generally bad at, chemistry. But there's your chemistry lesson. You can replay that so then you could be an expert in chemistry related to cane sugar versus high-fructose corn syrup. Now we'll move on to the second C, critical thinking. People say fructose is bad, and by proxy, fruit is bad. So some, but not all, or even most studies on fructose ingestion alone show that compared to glucose ingestion alone, while fructose can increase the creation of fat in the liver, this is called hepatic de novo lipogenesis, it's also less satiating or filling, and so on. And these tend to be most problematic in a calorie surplus. Now what those studies don't tell you are two things. One, humans by and large do not consume just pure fructose or pure glucose because table sugar is not pure glucose, and fruit is not pure fructose. And also de novo lipogenesis, that's a relatively minor pathway for fructose metabolism overall. So two caveat, important caveats there for this quote external validity that you talked about earlier. And so then people will say, well, look, high fructose corn syrup is bad because of the excess fructose compared to sucrose. However, the data does not show this. When you look at actual data on humans eating the same amount of calories, but they're getting some of that from high fructose corn syrup versus sucrose. Again, we're talking about things that are chemically the same, just slightly different proportions. There is no difference in outcomes with respect to weight gain, with respect to lipid levels, with respect to fasting blood sugars, with respect to blood pressure, go on and on down the list, insulin sensitivity, whatever. They are the same. And so if you were good at critical thinking, you would say, well, look, I had this hypothesis that because ingesting large amounts of pure fructose, especially in a calorie surplus, may be deleterious to human health. And your prediction was, well, because high fructose corn syrup has more fructose in it, that's going to cause unwanted outcome, whether it's weight gain, increases in blood pressure, increases in atherogenic lipoprotein levels. You would have to then go to the research and say, well, show me the data. Does this actually play out? And then you look at the data and you're like, oh, crap, it doesn't. Well, I guess I have to reject my hypothesis or otherwise modify it to fit this information. Yeah, fully agree. It's been frustrating to watch all this play out being touted by the HHS, I think, as a win that they're wanting to switch U.S. Coke from that, from, you know, to real, quote unquote, cane sugar as this kind of natural. So I think that's a holistic sort of thing that they're pursuing. I mean, if you look at historically rates of diabetes in Mexico have consistently been higher than rates of diabetes in the U.S. If you wanted to take a very oversimplistic view on this, you're like, well, if this were such a strong driver of our diabetes rates in the U.S., well, what about the place where they do sometimes use a bit more of the cane sugar and things like that? Yeah. So I wish that we were targeting things similar to our conversation in the first question about prioritizing, for example, things like dietary fiber and the fat composition in our diet and things like that, rather than, as our friend Dr. Nodilsky recently said, he used one of my favorite commonly used phrases in medicine, rearranging deck chairs on the Titanic, meaning it is just doing something that is ultimately going to be futile. So, and it's coming from a place that is not reflective of good critical thinking because you could have conversations with these folks and say, you know, I've actually sometimes wanted to do something like this to say, based on your hypothesis of the case or based on your understanding, could you describe to me the design of a study that would test this? And they would probably describe a study that probably something like it has been done. And if you showed that to them and that its results went in the opposite direction of what they expected, then what happens? And we know what happens in people's brains. This is not, I'm not attacking anyone in particular here, but this is just what people do when they're tightly wedded to an idea or a hypothesis or a belief is that they'll immediately start scrutinizing and trying to find reasons to dismiss the evidence that they don't like. And so ultimately another potentially futile endeavor, but one that would be entertaining nonetheless, I think. Yeah. And the final C that people are bad at, again, I've always said this, always. Always. Coke. Coke. People are bad at Coke. Okay. Because this claim is that, well, just look at Mexican Coke and compare it to the Coke that sold, Coca-Cola that sold the United States because Mexican Coke, you know, they use cane sugar and not high fructose corn syrup. And so, okay, one in Mexico, yeah, the, the, generally the rates of type two diabetes and metabolic syndrome are higher in the United States. So, all right. So that's a problem. Yeah. Yeah. Strike two people that, again, they, they claim that Mexican Coke, well, it tastes better and it's better for you because they use cane sugar instead of high fructose corn syrup. Well, that's not true either. Because Coke in Mexico has used high fructose corn syrup for more than over the last 10 years. Like they've been using it for over a decade. And they're like, well, but it tastes better. I'm like, okay, well, it has a little bit more sodium in it and it has more caffeine and more proportionally are sold in bottles that affect the taste. And there's actually like a whole separate scale of like sweetness. I think it's called the BRICS scale, B-R-I-X. And it has to do with like how sweet the thing is. And they have to adjust the amount of sweetener in the product based on what vessel it's being sold in and the type of sweetener that they use. I think they also put sucralose in Mexican Coke as well. So anyway, more stuff going on here. But again, like I've always said, historically, people are bad at the three Cs, which is chemistry, critical thinking, and Coke. So consensus here. I don't want people to get it twisted and say that we're telling you that high fructose corn syrup is uniquely health promoting. We are certainly not saying that. What we are saying is that it's no worse for you than cane sugar if consumed in the same amounts. And we have no data to suggest that people consume more high fructose corn syrup in a similar food than they would regular sugar. They're both bad, to be clear. Generally speaking, I wouldn't want people to eat a diet that has a lot of added sugar from either of them. So I would instead prefer that people consume those same foods with non-nutritive sweeteners if I could make a small change, meaning that they're sweetened with an artificial sweetener or a natural sweetener like stevia or monk fruit, whatever, than having added calories from cane sugar or high fructose corn syrup. But overall, your dietary pattern probably shouldn't be that sweet with respect to either added sugar or non-nutritive sweeteners either. So it's not that like high fructose corn syrup, we're recommending it. Ten out of ten, you should consume it. We're like, well, maybe your diet shouldn't have either in them. Yeah, I recall the first time I heard you say that final idea that like overall your diet probably shouldn't be super sweet all the time. And I thought that that was a reasonable kind of take-home suggestion for people that they might not have thought of in that way. Instead of micromanaging all these things, it's like if you're constantly having sweet things all day, there's probably a problem here that we ought to address. Yeah, broader dietary pattern can be changed. But yeah, we're not saying high fructose corn syrup is uniquely healthy or that you should replace all of your cane sugar with high fructose corn syrup. We're just saying that replacing high fructose corn syrup with cane sugar is going to do nothing. Literally nothing. I feel pretty – literally nothing except for waste a bunch of resources, time, attention, et cetera. And it's like all we're doing is placating people who probably shouldn't have confident opinions on this thing. And they're like, look at what we're doing policy-wise. Yeah, real food, real sugar. It's like eh, that seems to be a fallacy. Maybe we shouldn't be asking for that. Yep, agree. All right. Cool.

=== FILE: Is Leptin Resistance The Cause Of Obesity？ [U5um0U34HKk].txt ===

 So the latest one has to do with this notion of leptin resistance, which is, if you guys, if you're listening to this and you don't know what leptin resistance is, great, don't worry about it, just tune out, black out for like the next, you know, two and a half minutes. But leptin is this hormone, it's best characterized as like maybe a short acting sort of appetite regulator in most folks. It is in the body floating around proportional to the amount of body fat that you have. So the less body fat you have, you have low, levels of leptin levels of leptin levels of leptin, the more body fat someone has, the higher levels of leptin people have. And it's been thought that if, you know, a person were to gain a significant amount of body fat, well, their leptin levels would go up and that this particular hormone, which again, usually in the short term acts as sort of like a satiety hormone or like stop eating. That's the, that was this thought, right? And so, oh, if you have all this extra body fat, your leptin levels are high, it should go to your brain and stop you from eating more. That theory has been around for 25 years. There's effectively no evidence in humans supporting that line of thinking. Even when you give people a lot of like extra leptin, exogenous leptin through the medication, metroleptin and other sort of agents that have been trying to manipulate this leptin axis, if you will, or leptin hormone, it doesn't work. People still eat. It doesn't, it doesn't tamp down your appetite. In fact, what we've learned is that individuals with very low body fat, whether it's starvation, anorexia nervosa, stuff like that, they have very, very low levels of leptin. And that is a very strong appetite stimulant, very, very strong. And so, yeah, that's how it works. It just doesn't seem to do much when it's high. And even these new like GLP-1 receptor agonists, so Ozampic, Wig-OV, Trisepatide, et cetera, they actually lower leptin levels. I actually didn't know that. Yeah. The recent meta-analysis came out a few months ago, 20-something studies, lowers leptin levels. It's more of like a, you know, hey, you didn't know this. Well, there you go. It doesn't, that's not the way it works to tamp down appetite because you would think if anything, oh, you lowered leptin. Oh my gosh, people's appetite should be much higher on these medications. Turns out it's just, that's not really how leptin works. And so providing a little bit of feedback about this idea, leptin resistance is the cause of obesity and it's not willpower. I'm like, well, we agree that willpower isn't like the main thing that's changed over the last 50 years with the tripling of the obesity rates, but it's not due to leptin resistance because that is really no evidence in humans to show that it happens. And, oh, no, yeah, it does. Look at what GLP-1 receptor agonists do. I'm like, yeah, they actually lower leptin levels, which is kind of the opposite of your theory here. And so, and then I was called a wellness influencer, which I guess I've been called worse. Sure. I mean, how do you feel about that characterization? I don't, like, I don't, I guess, you know, it's like the people say it in a disparaging way where it's like, well, look, I think that's the issue. Yeah. Yeah. You're medically trained, but now look at you, you're a wellness influencer. And I'm like, am I wrong though? Are physicians wellness influencers? If you take the terms literally. You would hope, you would hope. It's just weird. I'm like, I'm like, if, if somebody says something that is far outside of their area of expertise and it happens to be incorrect and potentially harmful, like I do think it needs to be corrected. I just wish that I had a better story about leptin rather than like, oh, look, here's the data. So you just, you know, here you go. Yeah. It strikes me as being very analogous to the carbohydrate insulin kind of theory. It's like people have this idea of here's what insulin does. It, you know, causes the storage of things. Therefore, when it goes up, things are stored. That includes body fat. So don't eat carbs. insulin goes down. Fat goes away. And it's like, that's a nice, neat, tidy story. Similarly, leptin, you know, proportional to body fat. And so when it's very high, et cetera, et cetera. And so here's the implications of my model. And it's like, okay. That's like a theoretically kind of tight explanation. Now let's test it. And both of those things have repeatedly failed to be predictive of outcomes in humans. Both the carbohydrate insulin model has, you know, not been well supported. Neither has this leptin resistance model or kind of theoretical explanation. So you just trash them and move on. Yeah. Instead of getting wedded to it and like basing your identity and your business model and your practice patterns all around theories that, you know, don't work. That's, that's the other thing. It's like this particular person is not in the health or fitness scene. They're just like leptin resistance. Why don't people, more people know about this? And I'm like, well, if anything, leptin resistance has been like promulgated by wellness people, like in the low carb world, like that's like the whole thing. So like, and people who like should know about leptin resistance do generally know about it. And they're like, yeah, this isn't really the thing. Similarly to like, oh, you just got to keep insulin levels low. It's like, yeah, well, GLP-1 receptor agonists actually increase insulin and cause massive weight loss.viaoul

=== FILE: Is Training To Failure A Good Idea？ [6OwaUlX4Qic].txt ===

Hi there, any general guidelines for trening with RPE, particularly in regards to how often and what context RP-10 can be considered a productive trening stress? As far as are any guidelines, I'm not aware of any practice guidelines for RP-10s when he's RP-9 when he's RP-8. As far as my general recommendation, my assault based on coaching and using RP-E to communicate how hard things should be with people for, oh, I don't know, a better part of the last six years, almost exclusively. I rarely program RP-10s outside of a testing situation or meet situation because I just don't think it's worth it. Meaning that I don't think that the fatigue is worth the potential stimulus that you get out of that. I think that most efforts should be somewhere in that RPE 6 to 8 range in general. That doesn't mean you never go to 9 or you never do a set at 5, but it just means in most of the sets I think should be RP-6 to 8, and that's as far as a general guideline. That's as close as I can get. The rep schemes can obviously vary across that, but I don't know that I just spend too much time working well below RP-6 or well above RP-8. Maybe here and there, but not yet a lot. Yeah, I tend to agree. I think that hopefully what you guys took away from the programming lecture is we're aiming to deliver a stimulus to the individual to elicit a response. The weight we put on the bar is exclusively selected as a strategy to get a particular response out of somebody. One metric of that internal load, that response that we're looking for is RPE. I don't know that I really almost ever in a trening context want to elicit a 10 out of 10 situation, because the closer you get to that 10 out of 10 effort, you may be getting incrementally greater stimulus, but I think the rate that the fatigue cost goes up way faster. Unless there is some particular reason why the performance on that set in that session matters a lot, which I can't really think of too many situations without the case, then it's probably not worth the cost. IMean, there are some, sometimes where you're just going for some arbitrary PR because you want to. Like I can think of the time, the first, when I last fall, I squatted 500 for 10. I thought you were going to say two days ago. No. No. But that time, I was only supposed to squat it for 8, and I squatted it for 8, and I was like, I think I got 10, and 10 would just be cool to do, so I'm just going to do this. But I would not program that ahead of time to say, I'm going to go to 10 today because I think that this is a valuable trening stress. That was an excessive amount of fatigue generated from that session, and I wouldn't say I would regret doing it, but I wouldn't have programmed it ahead of time. You could make a case for going closer to failure on isolation type movements that has been discussed. Still don't think that you need to go to 10. But when you're talking about general guidelines for trening with RPE, I think that we can get a reasonably good trening stimulus staying further away from failure on our compound movements along with specific practice for your task, like single at 7, single at 8, double at 7, double at 8, et cetera. But for isolation stuff, you can go closer to failure because in general, this systemic fatigue you're going to get out of it, right? Taking your tricep press downs to failure or something like whatever. It's not going to be that big of a deal. Thought is that if you let people go to failure to RPE 10, that helps them calibrate their RPE scale. I know that it is unargument. I just think it's relatively weak because I don't necessarily care how accurate the RPE rating is. Just as long as you're using the same scale each time, so the precision is still high. But you know, that is unargument. Sure. Okay. Yep.

=== FILE: January 2021 Virtual Pain and Rehab Seminar Q⧸A [H4exGLpZ-GQ].txt ===

Well obviously thank you guys for attending this weekend for our first virtual Barbell Medicine Pain and Rehab seminar. Hopefully it's been beneficial for you guys and you've got a lot out of it. I've enjoyed talking to each of you that have commented and submitted questions throughout this weekend and then now we're going to do our kind of traditional Q&A that we do at the end of all of our seminars. Obviously just virtual at this point. So we've curated somEQuestions from folks throughout the weekend. I'm going to go through each of these and do our best to answer them. I don't mind all narrate this. Derek and then we'll bounce around answers for thesEQuestions. The first one comes from Sean. What are your thoughts on programming for Rehab? And we're going to have this as kind of a broad context I take it and then I can expand on it afterwards. I think we are by and large severely underdosing. A lot of our athletes in Rehab and I use that in the general like just broad strokes rehabilitation term. I think we are missing the boat by not having our athletes at least try and get as much exposure to overall conditioning as they possibly could to reap the benefits of it. And this could be just accepting that there are other ways to tren other than just what the athlete is currently doing. And specific to the talks, we've been through this weekend. Having athletes that have exposed ACL reconstruction in the gym more than just twice a week doing low-intensity state cardio or doing some basic fundamental movement drills and starting to resistance tren. I think increases their overall capacity for athleticism which really should be our goal. Now, on the other side of this spectrum, if we're taking it into visual who's not meeting physical activity guidelines, the real game with programming there is finding where to start and what they are willing to do. The type of exercise, the specific sets and reps do not matter nearly as much as just advocating that they do something. We are likely missing the boat a little bit as rehabilitation professionals by trying to paint or paint individuals into a corner and advocating they do a specific type of exercise instead of just finding out what they want to do, what they are willing to do in the and trying to increase capacity from there. Yeah, I think it's pretty good. Brought to review, I don't have a ton to add. Just meeting people where they're at, seeing what they're currently dealing with, what are they trying to build back toward as they accomplish, so goal-sutting and then dosing an activity appropriately over time. And then hopefully progressing it as Derek was talking about, I think that's one of the unfortunate things that happen to rehab is we just remain under dosage a lot of times and we don't progress people. So there's nothing wrong in my book with three sets of 10 of some type of movement, but how do we progress that over time for those that need it and so having some type of like building blocks to work with or basic trening foundational principles like specific facility, progressive loading, realizing that we need to make individual variations and differences for folks specific to their needs and demands over time. And this realizing like what is the population that you're working with is this someone that's a clinical general population that we do just need to get active and start doing small kind of changes and behavior throughout time to help with their experience or these athletes that were trying to get back to the field and having some type of his term to support criteria would be necessary in that process. So I think those are kind of the big things that we struggle with as far as just dosage activity being appropriately given to the person that we're working with. The secondary aspect of that could you talk a bit about clients that have had really negative experiences with medical practitioners not listening to them and who have lost faith in their chances of getting better and the medical establishment's ability to help them in general given what we know about patient expectations and packing outcomes is a necessary to convince them that they can get better for them to get better. And if so what can be done to change their minds about the potential outcome. So kind of two questions there. How do you help individuals who are dealing with maybe some not so great interactions throughout the medical system and then also how do we work with their expectations? I think we can't underestimate the power of the phrase, well that sucks. You need to acknowledge that they've had a bad experience and I've certainly had plenty of patients who have been told things by practitioners that I would consider not good advice. And it is establishing that new relationship and being able to communicate with people and understand where they're at is an integral part of just the human experience if not a rehabilitation professionals job. We're all going to have those negative experiences. I've certainly been told things from individuals that have impacted me in a negative way. But it is that acknowledgement that there is hope. Now I don't think that you have to expect to get better first in order to get better. I think that's a little bit of a cyclic phenomenon in that you can start the process with the very expectations. But if you start seeing you can do more than you thought you could do prior, then that starts doing flincherexpictations. Whereas if you come in with the expectation that you're going to have progress, that probably makes it a little bit easier. But each person's path is unique to them. And this kind of gets back at the big theme of how many different ways can I get a message across. So IMay be saying the same thing. For example, hey, you need to be more active. But I don't think anyone has ever been more active from just being told they need to be more active. If only it were as simple as telling our significant other, they need to calm down and that would get them to calm down. It's how do I address this issue in front of me. And sometimes you can face it head on. Sometimes you need to take our around about way. And especially if there's been some negative expectations in the past or especially negative messaging, sometimes we really need to circumvent the problem. We need to work around it instead of working through it. That way the individual who's been told these negative things can really gain perspective on why what they were told is wrong. Yeah, I think it's great. I don't have anything to add to that. Thoughts on how to increase participation, compliance and accessibility for youth resistance trening. I'll kick that to you there. Normalize it. And that really is the biggest thing. I think we have to hit critical mass in individual seeing that is safe to tren, that is effective for over-isletic performance. That young individuals can put weight on the bar and see progress. And I will even caveat this further. If there is one component where we really need to increase participation is with our young female athletes. We need to be the biggest advocates we can to get them in the gym, comfortable lifting weights, and seeing that they can get stronger. Now how do we do this? One, you start with one individual. This is going to be a movement that builds from small numbers, just like many other things. If we start getting some athletes, especially young female athletes in the gym, they start squatting, they start deadlifting, they start resistance trening. And then those start to manifest as results in the field, I think it eventually takes care of itself. But if we're trying to start a movement, I think sometimes trying to cast a really wide net of just messaging across the board may not be the best way. But if we can get one person in the gym, then we can start getting two people in the gym. And then three, and then five, before we know we have our own Fibonacci sequence of people in the gym lifting. And that is how we do it. Like that. Fibonacci sequence of folks in the gym. It's good. That could be a teacher. In regards to exercise prescription, do you see any role for rehab exercises or a more specific loading of a body part, or would you rather go about selecting activities that might be aligned with the patient's goals, and things that may have difficulties within daily tasks and work on these gradually. If we would give a more specific exercise for a given body part, does any value in that in that part from just doing the same thing, doing something that is rather nothing. So I think it depends on case context and the person that I'm working with. Some folks, I probably don't want them to be the view in what we're doing is just like rehab. And so I'm okay with trying to get them to view it as still trening. Other folks, I worry about pushing the envelope too much too soon. And I kind of wanted them to look at this as like a rehabilitative process where they're not ready to go back to sport. So I think it really depends on the mindset of the person I'm working with, but also than the case. When it comes to like specific exercises, like the kind of things that I see big advocacy forward would be like post-op scenarios, as well as like acute muscle injury cases, stuff like that, then I definitely think there needs to be specific what we think of as rehab exercises. I can think of like several post-op shoulder cases I've worked with where yeah, for several weeks, it's like how do we get back active range of motion while we're respecting the physiological healing process of what happened in the surgery. And so that's going through those very basic kind of fundamental steps of returning range of motion, active assisted, and then active unloaded ranges. And then as we get that back progressing into more loading based. And then if it's an athlete's sports specific base, it's kind of is going to this very methodical rehabilitative process. Other people, if I'm dealing with like persistent load back pain cases, IMay want them to see is this is like, yeah, this is resistance trening. This is getting you active. This is loading your body. This is a cool thing to do. You don't need to be like in rehab in that context. So I think it depends on the mentality of the individual I'm working with, the case context as far as like how I'm going to talk to them about what they're doing and then whether I'm going to give specific exercises. I'm a fan of getting someone to load a specific area that's symptomatic, potentially playing off of placebo like contextual effects and also just giving them confidence in loading that area, especially if they have a propensity of wanting to offload the area. Yeah, I think there's a little bit of a conversation here about want versus need and individuals with more what I would consider general pain presentations. There I'm going to have a lot more discussions about what they want to do and there it may be accommodating what their desires are. However, if you're coming into my clinic with a hamstring injury, we're going to do some very specific exercises. And there are objective goals or much more clear to find. If you're coming in status post and ACL reconstruction, you can want to do sports all day long, but we need to make sure that your quadriceps strength is up to the standards that it needs to be. There were likely going to be doing very specific rehab exercises. It is case specific, but I think to muddy the water a little bit, often in the acute phase, if we're going to classify an injury as such, there are very specific quote unquote rehab exercises that are often beneficial, whereas if it is more towards the chronic side of things, then it is a little bit more of a discussion about meeting the individual where they're at and finding what their goals are and what we can do to get started. Okay, I think that's, yeah, it's all of that one. ThEQuestion is regarding the discussion I'm moving away from body region silos for management of muscle skeletal pain. I also think that's as a sign of a great, I think it was an editorial to go read for folks if you've not read it. Based on your experience in practice, how many individuals need a more structured rehabilitation program in the context or reducing pain and disability? Would that be sufficient enough for us there are need for more structured, specific program? Yeah, and that kind of goes hand in hand with what we were just talking about with the prior question. I think it just depends. Some people, we generally just need to get back to life activities and function and like encouragement and then other people need a much more rigid structured plan to implement to get them to where they want to be able to go back and do some type of specific activity. Yeah, I think here, this is a really hard thing for a lot of rehabilitation professionals because we want to give this very structured plan. And I can tell you, I have this discussion with parents a lot when I see adolescent athletes that are just not meeting physical activity guidelines. They want a very set regimented recipe to get their child better and it really is, they just need to be active. And here, I don't think a really structured rehabilitation program is warranted. It's just, you need to do more than what you're currently doing and you need to find things that you enjoy doing. I think sometimes we get a little bit overly driven towards this conversation around specificity and we forget that there are hundreds of thousands if not infinite ways of moving and all of which can essentially be an exercise. And what works for you and what you enjoy doing is not what I enjoy doing. And more than anything, it's not about me applying my definition of normal to you. It's about facilitating everyone in front of us finding their own normal. And if that's the case, IMay not need to put very strict constrents on what we're doing as far as a structured or specific program. Yeah. I think having people autonomy and flexibility and programming is a pretty big part of this discussion. Like, feeling as though they can make changes that need to or life got crazy and they missed a session. And I forget what lecture I talked about this on. But rarely am I like, yeah, you need to double up on Saturday and make all that up. Like, no, like, there's probably another session of coming for trening. And we see that even with like, behavior change, specific. There was one study I referenced in the low back pain discussion on looking at facilitators and barriers to implementing physical activity for those dealing with persistent low back pain. And it's like one of the biggest things to read about because I did a qualitative analysis of as well and interviewed the folks that were in that. And it's about them filling as though like there's these very specific, forensic recommendations from the rehabilitation clinician of these specific exercises that have to be done on these specific days. And they were like, I just don't feel like I can meet these expectations being placed on me or they gave me exercises that I don't even have equipment access to that. So I think having flexibility and their ability to see like, oh, this happened in my day. You know, can I pivot to do something differently that might not meet those like very strict guidelines that were given to me? And then it would be helpful in the long-grain to help with adherence for physical activity. You mean everyone doesn't have red toe straps swinging from their ceilings that they can do, you know, plank walk out, swallow one leg is abducted to exactly 28 degrees. Right. IMean, I would be shocked if that's what was recommended by some people to some people. Yeah. It even gets that like the idea of like what you were saying with specificity. I think what goes with that is people are like, oh, I have to do these three specific exercises. It's like exercises to get myself out of pain. And I've seen this numerous time in Barbama medicine consults where they think like that's add and finish them. Like I can never take away these activities because if I do, my low back pain is going to come back, which also isn't a good place to put someone in. Yeah. I think that is a great point to break up or bring up. I have had many athletes come in for consultation who have been told by a prior clinician that they need to do this certain set of exercises. And I just had one last week who had probably 25 exercises that she was doing three times a week because the clinician said that's what she needed to do in order to say healthy. And it is an interesting conversation of will have you try doing less. And I think too often in the rehab context, we want this one to one ratio of one problem one solution when we can probably address the problem. Probably address or check multiple boxes with a more broad frame approach. Yeah, that's tough. Difficult conversations. The body region silo thing. I think it sounds great on paper. I question the ability to implement that in our current healthcare system. I don't see a skinning rid of patient presents with low back pain, patient presents with shoulder pain. I think because we're always going to be in a position as clinicians of trying to roll things out that may potentially not turn out so well for us if we didn't roll them out. And so although I like the sound of you know removing these body silos. I think in our current healthcare system it's unlikely doesn't mean it's impossible. It's just as hard for me to see how we implement that right now. Jacob asks in the context of load management for multi directional athletes with activity related pain. Any strategies for finding areas we can dial back while keeping participation high. This is going to be context dependent and it really does come down to what the athlete can tolerate. I think a good coach or a good rehabilitation professional is going to find those activities that an athlete can do. And this really goes back to that thinking outside the box conversation. And we want this cookbook recipe. Let's do it this way. But you have to let an athlete explore their environment and see what they can do with minimal symptoms. And I think trying to quantify jumps or quantify maximal effort. You know things like RPE do come in handy here because you know if we're doing a desaleration drill okay why want you to cut at 70% in athletes will start kind of self governing there. But it also is finding different drills they can do to change direction. I think one of the more important things you can start doing is structurinGHow much they can move a lot of times if I'm doing like a reactive ball drill where we're trying to move. And I think I'm going to move forward backwards to the side. In the beginning I'll start out in like 10 square feet. As they start making progress we'll move it out to 15 square feet and the goal is to be able to get it wide enough to where they are getting up to full speed doing these drills. But you can put these constrents on the environment where they're having to move in smaller spaces to where likely the forces they're experiencing are not going to be as high. So it's on the recent term of moosey plastic that's all you buddy you don't come on. IMean yeah I have a lot of thoughts it's a word that the international association for the study of pain is put out there has another descriptor word for someone's experience trying to give a label. IMean, it is like the official definition from the ISP you can go to the website look it up is that no seoplastic pain is pain that arises from altered no seception despite no clear evidence of actual or threat and tissue damage causing the activation of peripheral no seceptors or evidence for disease or lesion of the somatosensory system causing that pain. And so instead of it being no seceptive or neuropathic we've added this additional term of no seoplastic. I don't think that it moves the needle forward and management I don't think that it's very meaningful at this time at least it's not been demonstrated. And so I don't really know that it gets this anywhere I think my further concern is just like applying labels in this kind of broad stroke fashion that doesn't actually add any meaning or further understanding to the discussion of why the individual in front of you is having pain. And in fact my concern is people with just being like yeah you have no seoplastic pain don't really know that that gets us anywhere and it's similar to the conversation we had over the weekend of your catastrophizer like I wouldn't say that to someone and I don't think it's beneficial or useful and I wouldn't want to hear someone I'm working with say to me they think they're a catastrophizer because I'd be like just we need to stop and kind of reframe this discussion and move ourselves away from that type of label. So yeah, I don't think there's any reason to believe that it's a necessary label and I don't think that there's any reason to believe at this time that it's going to do anything differently from a clinical practice standpoint. There's also a discussion that likely needs to be had at some point about the differences between experimentally induced. No seception which could be then rated as painful non-paying full discomforts on a so forth versus lived experiences dealing with those who are having pain and daily living. And I'm not one in the same and even though that's often how they're talked about and paying literature as far as like inducing of pain as well as like real life experience of pain on the real world so. Over the answers to your question I don't I just don't think it adds that much to the conversation. The next one says IMentioned something to the effect of I don't like explain pain. Okay, yeah, so we have a couple parts this is a longer question so a couple parts highlighted. This is a pain rehab seminar. I think it's useful to find out find what I can generalize out areas. What could we take from this weekend and apply to oh, is that the same okay. Let's go with this what at that part out. This was a pain rehab seminar. I think it's useful to find out what I can generalize to other areas. What could we take away from this weekend and apply to quote unquote prehab. In addition to meet physical activity guidelines and be sure to include some strength trening. Can we conceptualize pain as a okay soul stop there let's answer that first question there. You got it. Yeah, no, I just have a visor hatred of the world. And that's just me because it really is like well okay, let's just get prepared for life. As far as meet physical activity guidelines, make sure to include some strength trening. If I'm going to go back to what I said a moment ago about just telling your significant other to calm down like I guarantee if I walked upstairs so that the camera she was mad I'd be sleep on the couch for the next few nights. It is more nuanced than that to use the boron S and parlant parlance like you have to have these conversations about what the individual is willing to do. And this gets back to being comfortable having the hard conversations and saying this is where we are. What can I do in order to position myself in the best case scenario to be successful. You know, there's a lot of this talk and trening about we just need to go hard every day we're going to go to war and all these stupid analogies. But frankly, if you look at like you play those analogies out, there's a lot of preparation on all fronts. Like we need to make sure we're taking the steps to prepare ourselves to where it's not about going in and getting red faced and pulling as hard as we can every day it's. Did we set ourselves up with our stress management with our participation in physical activity guidelines with how we're allocating our time in order to have the best possible outcome. Like this is those things like I'm going to just keep reverting back to it. It is so simple. It's complex. People have difficulty with the basic principles because it is so simple and they feel that everything needs to be charged up. It doesn't we need to get good at our basic principles. We need to do the things that really are high yield for us even if they're a little on the boring side. Yeah, I was pondering this question a bit more. Is there anything we need to add to the National Physical Activity Guidelines is kind of interpreting this which I would say no generally speaking for folks who aren't sports specific athletes like we can't even get people to meet National Physical Activity Guidelines at this point in time. So that would probably be like and if you read the World Health Organization's recent guidelines that just came out last year. It's any activities better than none they've removed the 10 minute bouts recommendation for fear of people seeing 10 minutes and not wanting to engage activity. So now it's just get up and do something and hopes to start moving that needle forward because we continuously. If you look at healthy people over the decades, we aren't really moving the needle forward and IMean, for matter to get people active. I don't know why you're trying to add anything else when we can barely get people to do that. So I wouldn't worry about it and just as a relation to that like that is just card as far toward trening me to week and resistance trening twice a week. So we have a lot of information out on that topic so I wouldn't worry about adding more. I think as far as it relates to like a takeaway to our seminar that would help people out with that on their journey of physical activity and pull nice implementation is realize that like. Try to find something that you want to do from a point of enjoyment realize you're not always going to enjoy it, but overall hopefully you do it's probably going to feel hard sometimes that's okay. You may even feel sore which is where that kind of pain conversation comes in is this normal or not. And typically it's perfectly okay. I think that's probably like the big takeaways from the pain lectures or bits to that. There, do you think we can can conceptualize panes with the momitor away of indicating overall status a manifestation of total stress? No. It's way morecomplex than that. As we've talked about the entire weekend, pain doesn't equal to your damage pain in, I don't even like the alarm side of it. Just because I don't think it's a really good analogy out of it when we're talking about things like a muscle injury, we talk about the other side where you may feel really good but you're not ready to return to sport yet. So it goes both ways. A thermometer really implies that you know what's going on in the environment and I would say if anything where we suck at as rehab professionals is really talking about what's going on in the individuals environment. It's not about what their pain is, it's about what their external stress load is. Yeah, I think a lot of times we're just wanted to try to gain control over the situations. We're looking at ways to revert to a prior premise of pain equals tissue damage equals arm equals hurt. And if we can't reframe away from that foundational premise, then we're looking for a lot of ways to gain these like these metrics like a thermometer. And it doesn't pat out very well. The pain of the alarm actually comes up in just a second I think is a question. And a traumatic cases what is a useful narrative or metaphor they've used to help an uneducated patient start from square one understand what is happening. You want to go first, listen to me, don't me to. I don't know that I have very tangible general metaphors usually when I'm consulting with someone I try to find something that's relatable to them. So like what do they do for a living whether it's like an engineer or the mechanic or some other type of profession that I can make an analogy that would be relatable that's understandable for them. So I don't I'm not one of those clinicians that's like yeah, I always use this general metaphor. Unfortunately I'm curious to your response there. I agree that there is some specificity to it, but I do have one that I lean on a lot and what I'll talk to them about it is their shirt. When trying to explain the manifestation of symptoms that just come one out of the blue. And especially things that have kind of lingered around for a while my normal analogy is that we normally do not feel the shirt on our backs. Except for after I've said something like I just did and now it is impossible for everyone listening to this conversation to not feel the shirt on their back. And it is because we've now kind of devoted some attention to that and when symptoms linger around a lot of times. It is because we can't stop feeling the shirt on our back and a lot of what we do in rehab is really trying to wreck that focus elsewhere. Like whatever is there may still be there, but now we're not paying as much attention to it. Yeah, I like that unfortunately a motto is not on the call to like. Cheer is arms that pain and attention discussion you just said yeah he would love it. Okay, so there was been a couple of questions about like pain neuroscience education explained pain education on pain understandably still given my lecture on pain. I think we first have to because people like to do not like explaining pain to folks. I think we have to define what we mean by explain pain and I think that's super individualistic to the person in front of me. I don't like these kind of general templates that have come out to be like this is how you discuss pain these are the magical words you need to try to say to explain pain to folks. And what I worry about and the kind of more common climate these days with this discussion of explain pain is a very neuroscientric focus which has put us into a position that's no different than saying. My desk for low back pain it's in my muscles for low back pain now it's in my brain. That's always been time talking about all of these things is because when we look at models the whole point of trensitioning away from biomedical was to minimize duality. And so then we expanded on that model to biosycus social to say here some other variables that can be influenced. If we're just saying pains and output of the brain and we're taking this very neuroscientic approach to it. Actually no different than the original model we tried to move ourselves away from my other concern is we're not also giving control back to people in the sense of what am I supposed to do turned out my brain. Putting out pain which I've literally had people say to me on consultation how to wait turned out my brain outputs I don't feel pain. And like that's not actually possible nor recommended or any of those things given. Pain is an acute experience if you're living in a society. That's what happens we have pain experiences my bigger concern is how do you respond to those situations in which we're having those experiences and I don't feel the need to tell them what pain is. I went to listen to what they think pain is and maybe we have some talking points if they say to me like I think every time I've been over and fill pain in my low back that means that my disk is slipping. I'm like I understand you may think that we may even talk about like where did that narrative come from and work through that but it doesn't mean that I default to this very neuroscienture kind of focus of explanation to someone that's my biggest concern. As we're too busy trying to tell them what their experiences first is listening to them tell us what their experience is and then figure out how we helped them make sense of their experience so I look at it more of a sense making process. That's individualistic versus a general template to say these are the neuroscientric components of someone experiencing pain. Yes, the brain is a part of having lived experiences. It's not the only part nor is it the primary focal point we need to pay attention to. If you go back to StoWolts quote that included my pain lecture he talks about that great great article I will warn you it's meant as a philosophy paper was published in the journal phenomenology if I recall correctly. Which phenomenology looks at lived first person experiences and understanding like existence and being being in time would be like one of the main books that you would look at for this type of stuff. And so like it may be heavy and deep but the point of like moving towards an active model is adding other layers we're trying to minimize hyper focusing on aromasingle component. Hopefully that helps explain my position a little bit better. Pain is in alarm goes hand in hand with that I agree with what Derek said a second ago I don't use that metaphor I don't really agree with that metaphor for a lot of different reasons. I think sometimes in some situations there may be some fear and apprehension to engaging ones environment related to their pain experience. This one usually comes up with like the fear of audience behavioral model by land and I think loss or was actually like the original creator of that model. And I don't think that we can say that that's a broadly generalizable model in all situations. Which interesting is these discussions have been ongoing for a number of decades despite like the popularity of some narratives that are ongoing about how to talk about this stuff with patients. And so I havEQuote here pulled up because I had the benefit of like preemptively reading thesEQuestions ahead of time and this is from one of walls articles in 1979. And he says pain is taken not as not as a simple sensory experience signaling the existence of damage tissue the presence and intensity of pain is to poorly related to the degree of damage to be considered such a messenger. Pain is a poor protector against injury since it occurs far too late in the case of seven injury or a very slow damage to provide useful preventative measure. Instead is proposed that pain signals the existence of a body state where recovery and recuperation should be initiated. This places the word pain in the same class of words such as thirst and hunger which signal not only a body state but also signal the impending onset of a former behavior. Pain is a way of being in the world as Bork said it is specific to the individual's existence and I often look at as a call to action as an imperative. But it often to what wall is saying occurs way too late in those experiences is reflective in nature. And it's not going to alarm us to something impeding because you're reflecting on what's already happened typically in the scenarios. I would I highly recommend folks go read walls article is quoting on the relation of injury to pain the John Bonic Electra that's from 1979. Also highly recommend casser's paper which is on just titled the function of pain by casser c a s s e r. It will probably challenge some people's biases about like evolutionary adaptations of pain which is a common narrative that goes with pain is an alarm. I am far less confident in the narrative of evolutionary adaptation as an affordance than I was before I read that paper. I think it takes care of most of thosEQuestions. All right, so there's a few others that popped up so I'll switch over now because I think there are a few great questions here. Have you ever considered addressing stress your in air incontinence and athletes even though this is not a pain issue. It would be a rehab issue it exists in a lot of athletes and can be a deterrent to resist and stren especially women and new lifters in general. I've had a very hard time finding meaningful information that addresses this. In fact, I've recently had a urologist tell me the only thing that would help me is surgery and he would not do it unless I decided to stop lifting indefinitely. Well, I think right here we can go back to our negative messages that aren't really efficacious. I do have these conversations with athletes, especially my female athletes that are wanting to resist and stren. Not my area of expertise. I have sub-recommendations. I think reaching out to Merrill Apatu at the University of Florida does a lot of research in this is great. And then there's also Sandy Hilton in Chicago. Both of those individuals I cannot recommend highly enough when it comes to this topic and I certainly do not think you need to stop lifting. But there are individuals that are much better suited to have this conversation than I will ever be. Yeah, we really need to keep saying this and it would be nothing more than just like sending Merrill a message. We need to do a podcast on the topic with her because I trust her opinion on the topic. I defer all basically pelvic health questions to Merrill. She's an expert on it. She's phenomenal what she does. I cannot speak highly enough about her. And we certainly need to have her on a podcast. I think this was definitely teed up for me. What are your thoughts on the concept of physical literacy in relation to injury risk reduction specifically in regard to ACL tears? Do you feel the idea of higher levels of exposure, confidence and diversity in movement at a younger age would be correlated with lower injury rates? Yes, can I just stop there? Really, this gets at that principle of you need to be an athlete before you are a specific type of athlete. And we're talking about physical literacy. I always go back to this analogy. No parent would let their kid go back to or go to school to just go to math class early, so certainly hope not. Like we accept that in your education system, you need math, you need language arts, you need some type of humanities. However, we then turn around and say our kid needs to only play one sport. And it's not so much that the one sport does the damage. It's the fact that you've painted yourself into this very narrow window. Kids do need to know how to throw ball. They need to know how to kick. They need to know how to carry something. These are our fundamental skills that should be part of athletic development. And we really do need to facilitate those. I'll take it one step further. I think a lot of adults lose their physical literacy. And we need to go back and teach them to quote unquote. Read again. There's no reason that 30 year old shouldn't be able to throw ball or kick a ball or run a little bit. And it's not because we're getting older and we can't do things. It's because we're getting older and we don't do things. And we need to make sure we're keeping that literacy as we age. That's what I got. I don't have anything that any of them. Are there any last minutEQuestions? Anything you guys want to talk about? It looks like Tony also asked a question about any guidelines on ACO rehab for those who went to conservative root. There's no surgery for a full tear of basically somebody looking to return to a level one sport at a recreational level. I don't know if you guys saw that one or not. I did not get eote. Would be my first recommendation. I've never seen anyone who I thought had too strong of a quad. I would do the Eric mayor reductionists thinGHere and say get your quad as far as strong as you can to where you can accept those loads. And then it also comes down to that participation practice play algorithm of starting out with what you can tolerate in sports specific and then making it progressively harder until before you know what you're actually doing the sport itself. But I can't overemphasize get yoked is the biggest guideline. Also need that as a t-shirt. It's it has a cooking with the he's in the episode just waiting to happen. I'm surprised I haven't done anything with egg yolks yet. I was about to yeah. You could do cocktail as well. Just another egg yolks egg whites. Yeah, that's true. It wouldn't fit. I don't know if you guys saw the one from Ingrid as well. What are your recommendations on evaluating local clinical partners for PT who would take more of a strength and conditioning approach versus the more prevalent passive modalities or subluxation model with higher practice athletic or academic base rehab facilities. So it's people. Yeah. It's this is one of those where it's funny because I feel like the conversation about specificity versus variety has come up in different flavors this weekend. And I think when it comes to building your networks variety is integral. I think most people on this talk would accept that the odds of finding a good clinician are not that high. Well, if our probability is low, then we need a lot of exposures in order to find the ones that matter. And if that's the case that I need to go out and meet a lot of people. And IMeet IMay meet 20 strength coaches that I don't deem worthy for every one. But for every one that I do meet that makes my life easier. IMean, my algorithm in life is essentially a yes no do you make my life easier. If yes, I want you around if no kick rocks. And the more people I can find that helped me along my journey. The easier every component of my life is. And I have some strength coaches that I trust to let in the world and back. And I think they're phenomenal what they do. IMean, one of them IMet because I was helping a neighbor move a couch. It wasn't like I was out seeking strength coaches that day. Another was introduced to me in the Bay area because he was friends with the same physician who ended up trening me. It wasn't like I was seeking these people out. We have to be willing to have that exposure and go meet people along the way. Yeah, I think that's the build a referral network and this has to take trust. And if you're going to trust someone, you got to get to know someone. So I think that's going to be the biggest aspect of that. And the ones that I have referrals with this point like we've worked well together for a number of years and we do trust one another and that's why it works. Yeah, I think it does go symbiotic in that like once you start building those relationships. You know when the other person is better off doing it than you are. And I think in terms of figuring out where your level of expertise is one of the things that really is a sign of a good clinician is knowing where your limits are. And I think too often we want to hold on and do more than where really our level of expertise is. But at that point it's not about our personal growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is about the athlete's growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Like if I have their best interest in mine, IMay put them with another coach, but IMay still talk to that coach that way I can learn why they have the rationale to. Be at the tip of the spear in this return to sport program. Parker, I'm not touching that question. IMissed it. How about Nathan's to go see that. That's a mic. That's. I would ask what you mean by education. What are people saying that's my biggest concern. You're not going to ask what he means by pain. IMean, I would love to if someone has an answer. I'm all ears. I would say that when I talk about education, my thought process is probably better phrase as communication. And when it comes to sense making it specific to the individual. And that's why I was using the example of if every time they go and been down to pick something up, they think they're slipping at this. And we can work through that narrative and discuss it. We're going to communicate with one another. But I'm not going to turn on the fire hydrant and blast them with information of things I think I know about pain. Another Derek classic for quad sets. Yeah, it's. Yeah, so I'm pretty notorious in the volume versus intensity conversation about just framing it of you haven't done enough. This is where I would say I probably channel my inner CT flutter. It's the. Okay, well, I'm not even going to tell you how many of these you need to do, but whenever you feel like you've done enough, just do 10 more and then you're almost there. So that's where Mira are trolling me. I think that's it. I agree. I don't want to answer that. Yeah. Once we stop the recording side of this, I'll happily answer that question that I'm not not doing that on a hot mic. It looks like one actually just popped up. In those scenarios about patients being afraid of flexion based on a narrative of slip this to use behavioral learning strategies to support the communication. Like have them been to over pick something up. Yeah, for sure, potentially. IMean some folks I can just say like, yeah, that's not really something we need to worry ourselves about. And they're just fine. Other folks going to need that little bit of guidance along the way where I get them bending over picking things up. The flexion conversations interesting because the easy educational component there as far as like communicating to them about what they think is ongoing in their spine is like. We actually have our spine moved dynamically throughout activities of day living all the time unbeknownst to us and then specifically and things like resistance trening the spine is moving dynamically under load. In variable amounts, whether it looks completely quote unquote neutral to us or not. And so those are just talking points to be like, I understand you're worried about that. Did you know that we actually have the spine going through various types of movements or the area looks neutral to you or not. And so those are just kind of talking points with them. And then we can work through that and it'll be like usually what happens is that's counter to what they've heard and they're like, well, have you heard of what so and so said with this certification where they said I should do x y and z. We can talk through that stuff and make an individualistic to them. All right, so I'll do. Well, could you repeat the source of the philosophy quote yet earlier? Yeah, that's from still well in active approach to pain still unhartman. We actually did a podcast with them episode four. I want to say on the pain and rehab podcast for Barwell Medicine. So that would have been 2019 and then his papers in active approach to pain. Do you work in treatment programs or single session? It depends. I do one off console to both in my clinic and with Barwell medicine all the time. I love when I'm able to just have a conversation with someone provide reassurance, given them a game plan and they can go implement it without me. I think that's awesome. But there are folks who have to have consistent. Followed along guidance usually like post up cases. I see that's going to be in this serious aspect of the discussion and seeing them regularly in clinic. But outside of that's like it's very rare that all consistently have to work with someone that's a non trauma non post up case. IMay do like two or three visits with them and then they start feeling more and more comfortable. My usual stance on this that I often say when people ask me like, How long is this going to take? I'm like, let me get out my magic April. I'm a figure this out because in a lot of scenarios you have no idea, especially in those non trauma non post up cases. We don't really have a solid grasp on how long the individual is going to take to get to where they're going to be. But I'm here for as long as they feel like they need me. Some cases that may reset the state to me saying to them, you don't need me and you need to go on and conquer the world without me. Other cases IMay say like, we need to spend a little bit more time together, most likely based on what you're telling me. I think even here it kind of goes back to that networking conversation. And one of the most amazing parts of the area is being able to reach out and have conversations with coaches around the world. Just last week I had a consultation with a lady who had had a particular dislocation. And she was wanting to get back into trening and been told a lot of frankly BS. And she was located in New York City. And I told her we went to the consultation IMade my recommendations, but it really sounded like she needed someone just to watch her do things. Like she needed someone to sit there and take her through a jump program and show her it was going to be okay. Luckily I know a clinician that I trust in New York City. I was like, well, you could follow me for coaching and that would be one thing, but that's fine. You're going to be uploading videos. You would be much better off working with somebody who's going to be able to sit there and tell you everything's going to be okay. And take you through a progressive jumping program. It's money out of my pocket, but I would much rather that clinician be able to sit there and reassure her in real time than be making money off of that. Yeah, I think our specific remote work has a selection bias to it. There's definitely been cases, camera can attest us to it. I know that we have been like, I don't think this is going to be right fit for you, not because we didn't show us, though, we couldn't help them. But because just given what they needed, it would do way better working with someone, most likely in person. And we even try to find people locally if we can if we have contacts there. Just wondering about the implicit versus explicit beliefs that unless the person experiences the movement would it be difficult to facilitate a change? And if we can facilitate a change in a belief, I would say it depends on the person, you know, I have to have conversations with them and then leave the things that they are telling me. So I don't, I wouldn't feel comfortable saying every person I ever talk to can necessitate some type of consistent guidance with re-bulitative intervention. I think that's it. Yeah. Well, I will stop recording. I appreciate you guys attending this weekend. I'm so special for you. If you guys need anything, you want to talk about things further. You want references. You can always email us or emails are readily available out there. I think they're probably in the package you guys got as well. But thank you guys for taking the time to spend with us over this weekend. And I hope you have a good week upcoming. Thank you.

=== FILE: Live Q⧸A 3.17.2021： Interference Effect, Posture, Strength Decay, and More [9kEm03wHSqw].txt ===

Music Instagram Live, what's going on? It's Dr. Jordan Faganbaum, Barbell Medicine. It is the 17th of March. We're doing a surprise. Instagram Live here for about the next 30 minutes. While I'm, you know, making dinner. What we do here if you haven't joined us before, it's a Q&A session. I want to make sure that you guys know to ask me a question. So I'll just say ask me a question. Ideally, thesEQuestions are related to fitness, medicine, health, whatever, and are generally applicable. So it's like a very specific injury that you're having, a better place for that question. It might be the forum where you could just kind of explain your history. We could talk about it. So you can find that on thebarbell medicine.com website. Just join a forum and we have a pain and rehab forum. Specific. So that'll be useful there. Or you can ask your question on our Facebook group. But yeah, so we do here at Cell LivEQ&A. Ask your question in the comment below and I'll try to get to it. If you're a returning viewer, thanks for coming back. Let's see. All right, next level Benson asks, how would someone ideally balance lifting and running without taking many days off? This question is interesting from a few different levels. So let's address first off the elephant in the room. Most people will kind of be afraid of mixing a lot of resistance trening with a lot of endurance trening because they're afraid of this interference effect. The adaptations that you're leaning from, the endurance trening are going to impede or attenuate or otherwise interact with negatively the adaptations you're seeking from the resistance trening. It's usually not so much that endurance folks are afraid of the adaptations from resistance trening, impeding the adaptations they're selecting by engaging in a lot of endurance trening. But that would be the same type of thing, the interference effect. Tens to only be problematic, meaning that it's actually decreasing the limitations that you're leaning from trening when the volume of trening is too high. The volume, actually to be more correct, the overall trening stress from one or potentially both elements are too high. And so effectively you're just trying to keep your head above water and tolerate the trening. You're not really able to make as good or as rapid improvement and realizing the adaptations that your trening is sort of producing. So as far as where to cut that off, it really depends on the individual their treninGHistory and in particular what is their endurance treninGHistory, what is their resistance trening treninGHistory. But my kind of rule of thumb here is for new individuals, people new to trening, or people new to endurance trening since we're Bartle Medicine. It's not like running medicine or like, you know, cardiovascular, endurance medicine. Most of the folks that we tren, you know, work with have some experience with barbells or, you know, that's where they're starting. So that's self-selected population. So most of those folks, if they're trying to get into endurance trening, and you know, we do program enough endurance work and aerobic work in their trening to meet the current physical activity guidelines. That's one of our kind of staples. After that, it's just slowly increasing that volume. So, you know, three times a week, 30 minutes for steady state sort of cardio. That's kind of like that limit that I don't really like to go above or in a different specific work. Behavioral sort of physical activity that would fall on, you know, in the criteria for the physical activity guidelines like walking. I don't really count that. But, you know, if we're talking about actual like, oh, you're jogging, you're running, you're rowing, you're swimming, whatever. Three times a week, 30 minutes per time. That's kind of like that cap that I have on newer sort of trenees, they're relatively new to resistance trening and they haven't done a lot of aerobic work before. That obviously goes out the window if people become more and more trened. So, how to program for this? Well, it just depends on what you're going to prioritize if anything. I don't know that you should necessarily have more days off or less days off because I don't know anything about your current program. Our endurance template, you know, uh, trens people four days a week and you have three, uh, or four dedicated, like endurance workouts that you can kind of split up. So, theoretically, you could tren every day. Or you could take two days off a week or three days off a week if you're starting to pair some of the stuff together. It just really depends on your like trening background, treninGHistory, your, the resources you have to trening, uh, you know, do you have access to a gym, do you have access to, you know, various, different modes of aerobic activity and all of those sort of stuff. But I wouldn't really worry about the interference effect unless you're just doing way too much. And then, uh, you know, the second part of this is like, what do you really want to get out of your trening? And then you get to kind of program around that. You know, Jordan, do you still recommend resistance trening to patients who don't have immediate access to a home gym or a gym membership? I recommend resistance trening to all adults, actually all individuals, um, based on current guidelines. Now, as far as what does that look like, it just depends on what the resources are. One of the biggest barriers to actually participating in physical activity is access. And so people are like, you know, no excuses, you make your own, you know, sort of path is like, well, if you don't have access, do to whatever, you know, situation that may not be your fault, even though you are responsible for that, uh, you know, that's kind of a hard line to toe. So, yeah, if people don't have access to any equipment at home, we have our at home, you know, how to exercise at home. They have free Template there, free article, on how to do that. And I think that would help people meet or at least work towards meeting those current guidelines for resistance trening. I obviously think external resistance, uh, is going to be useful for most folks, uh, make it easier for them to meet the current guidelines for resistance trening. And for individuals who are, um, chiefly concerned with performance outcomes, particularly low velocity strength or even high velocity strength power, uh, and also muscular hypertrophy. I think having access to equipment is, you know, makes that a little bit easier, a little more efficient. Hey, Jordan, do you do your posture recommendations change for folks with osteoporosis? No, we don't have any general posture recommendations outside of that. There are many different postures that sort of, uh, you know, will work as far as like allowing an individual to participate in a full and complete life without excess risk of pain or injury. And that, uh, carries over to folks with osteoporosis or other muscular skeletal or as the Aussie say, muscular skeletal conditions. Thoughts on watching video on bar speed to determine RPE if you struggle with gauging it. I think that you should really try and, you know, use how the set felt with respect to exertion level. IMean, that's the whole point of RPE, uh, and rely heavily on that. And then allow the video and the velocity of the barbell in the video compared to previous performances to sort of fine tune it rather than the opposite be true. I don't, I think people, a lot of people expect that their RPE ratings like they're just they're going to be a wizard with it. It doesn't need to be very accurate. Right. It doesn't need to be, well, I rated this a seven. It has to be absolutely a seven. Whatever type of scale you're using. So you can use a reps and reserve scale. We're a seven means you have three reps left of the tank. You could have a different scale. Like if you're doing singles, for example, RPE seven should feel like an easy opener, uh, you know, or for some individuals, they might have a completely different scale. Right. RPE seven on aromasingle might feel like the last warmup before an opener, if you're a competitive power lifter or it might feel like you have, you know, or you just have it, that's an easy effort. IMean, you can make this with the scale, whatever you want. It thing is it doesn't have to be accurate. It just needs to be precise. Meaning that you're using it and applying it the same way each time and the similar context. So I wouldn't worry about like, man, I'm just really bad at RPE. It's like it doesn't need to be perfect. There's air in there. That's fine as long as you're introducing the same or similar amounts of air each time. That's kind of the idea here. And then yeah, you can find to it with some bar speed. But I find that, you know, whichever way you're sort of we're leaning previously based on how the set felt and the the workout for the day, um, you're going to kind of tren and your personality type. You're going to kind of see the video and perceive it in a certain way. So if you're kind of person who's like who tends to overshoot stuff, you know, you're going to see the video and say, yeah, so look that thing moved quickly, right? And your friends are always going to say, yeah, yeah, IMoved pretty pretty well. And you're going to add weight, maybe too much. Um, I don't know. And if you're the type of person who tends to undershoot stuff and be super conservative, uh, you're going to see just like, ah, it's kind of slowed down there a little bit. And so you're going to see what you want to see and I just don't know how much it adds unless you could objectively measure the velocity, meaning like, all right, this is how much the the bar is being displaced and here's how much time is being, you know, uh, has passed by so you actually get a number. So velocity trackers can be useful to kind of like, again, fine tune that, but I think you're the way it felt and how that correlates to whatever scale you're using should super seed any objective sort of data. Adam Johnson, thoughts on Greek yogurt as a protein source, I love it. I eat Greek yogurt nearly every day. Yeah, one of my staples. Uh, big fan, big fan of Greek yogurt. I thought it was a easy question. I have world, uh, amino acid profiles great, right? The protein to calorie sort of ratio is great for me. Um, and I think for most folks, particularly if you're using the low-fat or non-fat stuff, um, yeah, if you're lactose intolerant, probably not for you, but other than that, you know, or vegan or vegetarian folks who don't eat del consumed dairy. Otherwise, yeah, they could pretty good. Bel underscore beaver, aside from dietary patterns carried into adulthood is saturated fat consumption, a problem in children, can be, yeah, if it's very, very high. It's the same, same recommendations apply towards adults. I like you to free pass because you're younger. Um, yeah, high consumption of saturated fatty acids in a diet in general increased athoschorotic cardiovascular disease risk. Uh, in addition, and that dietary pattern is, yeah, there's a lot of inputs that go into the dietary patterns and eating environments and food environments that kind of stem from childhood. So, be really hard to tease all that stuff out, too. Do you believe that everyone has an optimum weight to make the most strength gains possible for them? No, I do not believe that. I think there's a range probably, but that range is likely wider than people think as far as being substantially lower and probably substantially higher. Uh, that being said, when you start layering on top of that, you know, health, uh, sort of, uh, you know, health outcomes, that range probably gets a little narrower. But I think people are associating a lot of like muscular size and amount of lean body mass with strength performance a little too closely for what the data actually sort of reflects, um, at this time. There are ways to make muscles bigger without making them necessarily stronger, particularly if the strength test is a low velocity, one rep max, um, sort of effort, there are ways to make muscles stronger without making them bigger. Uh, and I think that when you sort of understand that the relationship between muscular size and muscular strength probably isn't as strong, if it were being charitable that view, it's probably probably not as strong as, you know, we've been led to believe. Then you start to understand, yeah, there's probably this large range of body weights and body compositions where you can make really good strength gains and the strength improvements are going to depend on the test, like what strength improvements are you actually testing and then also the programming, the programming is going to be the biggest determinant of how strong you get. David Rodriguez 168, what's up Jordan, exclamation points. So it's what's up Jordan? Uh, how much muscle mass and strength loss can be expected to be lost if an individual stop trening altogether for over a month. So muscle mass, uh, provided you're not sedentary, I wouldn't actually expect you to lose hardly any if if any at all. The a lot of the data we have on like muscle cross sectional area decay or decrease, uh, and people who are not bedridden and who are not critically ill, suggest that you're probably not going to lose much if any at all, especially if you're eating a substantial amount of pressure protein and again, our active, otherwise physically active as far as strength. Yeah, the data is imperfect is imperfect because they're testing, you know, relatively athletic populations or people who are pretty easily untrened. Um, so that that can be problematic and as far as I can recall, there's not a study out that just measured it at one month. But strength decay in some populations took much longer than that to actually go down, uh, with respect to the barbeda lifts. So I wouldn't actually expect that much fall off for a month. Yeah. And for over a month, IMean, you start getting two months, three months. Yeah, I would expect muscle cross sectional area to decrease, I would expect, you know, your strength performance to go down as you become deconditioned and those adaptations decay as far as how much it's not going to be a lot. You know, you want hard numbers. I don't have them for you because there's such a wide and inter individual range with respect to strength, strength decay and then again, it just takes, it seems to be taking a lot longer than we, we think. Um, and particularly if you're active, uh, it takes a long time to generate these strength adaptations, and it takes a long time to lose them. Same thing with cardiovascular adaptations, as far as particularly if we're talking about a similar magnitude, right? As far as muscle mascos, yeah, the muscles get smaller. You lose some muscle cross sectional area. But the amount, uh, this concept is called the Myonuclear Domain, and it's related to the number of Myonuclear muscles cells, the each muscle cells responsible for particular area of the muscle fiber, as far as replacing proteins, managing damage proteins, et cetera, et cetera. So this Myonuclear Domain, there's a domain for each of these cell nuclei. Uh, and so you don't lose any nuclei, even if you're inactive, but the actual size of the muscle uh, become smaller because due to disuse. So effectively the signal to the, that muscle cell is like, hey, you don't need to make as much protein and then muscle cells like, all right, cool, I won't. But then when you as soon as you give it back that signal to get bigger and grow, uh, the muscle cell goes, oh yeah, I remember what I'm supposed to do, and then you get a rapid restoration and muscle cross sectional area. Yep, that preservation of Myonuclear Domain is, is super important. What are your top three favorite air Jordans that you own? Okay, yes, so if you guys did know that some sneaker head and Jordans happened to be one of my favorites, I like, I really do like the, uh, air Jordans, the classics. Uh, I got, uh, the band ones are really great. I do love those, uh, as far as new air Jordans, the mocha's that just came out. I like those, my air Jordans force that I have for golf, this cement, oh boy, those things are, those things are great. And then, um, other one, oh retrofives, retrofives that are white with the red and blue. IMean, it's patriotic. That's why I like the band so much to the white and the red. It's just, um, and uh, I'm just not going to spend as much money on like the off whites or whatever, because I do, I wear these things. So, in any case, those are my favorite. Is the increased rate of muscle gain, bulking, greater than the subsequent muscle loss cutting when compared to bulking with a period and maintenance to recomp if being lean, being very lean isn't a priority. I guess you're asking if, if you gain muscle faster, do you retain more of it when you're cutting? And the answer is in general, yes, though again, this hasn't really been directly investigated. Uh, yeah, you gain more muscle when you're gaining more weight, but you also gain more body fat. And then when you go to lose muscle, uh, lose body weight, yeah, you're going to lose a little bit of muscle mass, but to the extent that you can preserve that with the adequate protein diet and resistance trening, um, and in general losing weight a little bit slower, uh, yeah, you should be able to retain more muscle mass. Um, the maintenance period is probably important, uh, with respect to, uh, more important with respect to weight loss, trensitioning into a weight gain phase, then it is from trensitioning from a weight gain phase to a weight loss phase. Uh, basically you get this, if you've lost weight, sort of for a period of time, and then you go right back to a weight gain phase, you get the sort of preferential restoration of fat mass. To the extent that you can avoid that, uh, weight stabilization period seemed to help. Uh, I have not seen data on the opposite where people are gaining weight, and then a weight stabilization phase actually helps them preserve more muscle mass when cutting. It's theoretically possible, but I don't I don't know that I could be confident about saying that. Tristan underscore J underscore right is ketosis, an actual thing that helps with losing weight, or is that just all BS, uh, ketosis is the bi-definition is the, when the body's making ketones, ketone bodies, uh, due to fatty acid metabolism and the mitochondria, uh, being in ketosis, uh, and higher levels of ketosis, via a ketogenic diet, so diet that produces higher levels of ketosis, is, is one way to lose weight, um, provided you're in a calorie deficit. If you're asking does a ketogenic diet produce greater weight loss outcomes, or better sustained weight loss outcomes, or better adherence to a weight loss diet, then other types of diet the answer to that is no. Um, we have pretty good data on that. In fact, it looks like very low carbohydrate diets, which would include ketogenic diets. Actually, they tend to lose less fat mass and more lean body mass, uh, then diets that are higher in carbohydrates, also don't tend to gain as much lean body mass when in a calorie surplus, um, and following resistance trening program. So it doesn't mean that a ketogenic diet or low carb diet or very low carb or a hydrodiet, which the definitions would have to be fleshed out for a really in-depth conversation of this. I do that in the book. Uh, it doesn't mean that they're not viable diets. They're perfectly fine for people that prefer that type of diet, but I don't know that I could sit here and tell you that they're any better than a different, another type of diet because the data doesn't say that they are. Top three songs for a heavy single currently go. Uh, yeah. So I actually have a trening list on Spotify. Let's check it out. Okay. So look, man, I think that you should start out with the Allen Parsons Project. Serious. It's the Chicago Bulls theme song. It's getting in the right head space. Right? Then you're going to put your belt on, get, get, you know, start gettinGHype. I think you got to do mega-debt, Symphony of Destruction. I'm just saying that one's lapse. Uh, alternatively, if you're looking for something more a little a little more hip hop, I would say key-gloc, key-gloc do. Great, great, great jam. Is mixed grip okay for deadlift? Don't want to die. Definitely doesn't increase your risk of mortality. And I wrote a pretty long article about this called the grip problem. It's on the website. Yeah, mixed grips totally fine with me. I don't actually know that it increases risk of biceps tendon rupture and it just a perfectly fine way to hold on to the barbell. Best initial targets when you're coming back to trening after a long break. We have an article on a website called how to return to trening. We use RPE to pick your targets. How to reconcile a doctor's fitness advice with barbell medicines, fitness advice if they conflict. Ask the doctor for evidence to support their stance and also understand that it is highly unlikely that they're trening with respect to exercise prescription, coaching, etc. is anywhere close to ours. And I'd be happy to discuss that publicly. Was told to avoid grains, dairy and gluten when my doctor diagnosed me with Hashimoto's, but I'm unable to find data is he punky me. If your doctor recommended that, I'd be very, very curious as to what the statuses of their board certification and endocrinology. It sounds like something that a person who's not educated in this topic would say. People do say this stuff and then when you ask for a data, they go quiet because there's not data. Well, they talk about anecdotes. Well, my friend or my cousin or my I had a patient who did this. Yeah, there's no data on that. Would not recommend specifically switching to that dietary pattern to manage Hashimoto's, because that's not how you manage Hashimoto's. If you want to follow that dietary pattern, otherwise, because you prefer it, and it helps you maintain a healthy body weight and sustains your level of physical performance during physical activity, etc. That's all finding good, but that's not how you manage Hashimoto's. Okay, you might have heard the bell earlier, and that was my dinner. Well, at least the rice portion. So I got to go finish dinner. I have finished making dinner so I can eat the dinner. But yeah, this was fun. Mist you guys and gals here on Instagram Live. Can I'm Dr. Jordan Fagamam, Barbol Metacin. I recorded this on the fancy cameras, so I'll probably put this up here later on. And next time, you know, we'll get more of your friends. So when I post it, share with your friends and see you next time. Have a good night. Later.

=== FILE: Live Q⧸A From 11.11.2020 [F37q5j_dKNs].txt ===

It's Tram Live. What's going on? It's Dr. Jordan Faggin, my mobile medicine. It is November 11th. It is 1738. Betty Wop again. You guys know what it is. Instagram Live, question and answer session. So every Wednesday we're here about 530 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. What we allow you to ask questions in the comments section. So if you're just joining us for the first time, welcome. Type your question into the comment section. All right. Ideally, thesEQuestions are related to fitness, trening, anything like that. But hey, sometimes we go off the reservation and we get to talk about interesting things. If I don't get to your question, I apologize. Head over to our forum. If you go to barbomitons.com, you can sign up for the forum. We're very active there. Or you can go to our Facebook group to search barbomitons on Facebook. We'll accept it to the group. And you can join the nearly, I think it's almost 18,000 folks now. We'd love to have you be a part of that community. So yeah, in those specific topics tonight, it's popry. We're going to dive into somEQuestions here. We scroll up what's going on in everybody. Hello. We're shooting for over 200 folks at any given time. Normally, we get like 1,000 something views while we do this thing. But we'd like to get at least 200 users at a time. I log on. I see some other Instagram lives with like 1,000s of folks. And I understand that I'm not famous. But I think we can do it. I think we can do it. So tell your friends. Connor Whitty, how do you manage fatigue when doing full body trening? So this probably gives us a good chance to talk about fatigue, what it is, and then like how do I think about it in general. So fatigue in general are the negative psychological and physiological things that occur secondary to an exercise stimulus. There are two broad categories of fatigue. One is peripheral. Those things happen at the level of the muscle. So muscle damage, accumulation of metabolic, waste products, depletion of energy substrate. All the things would fall under the umbrella of peripheral fatigue. And then there's a central fatigue, which basically is a reduction of the neurological signal to the muscle to create force happens at the level of the brain or spinal cord. And so together, those things are fatigue. And again, they're the negative sort of psychological and physiological things that occur secondary to exercise stimulus. As far as what causes greater fatigue out of proportion to the exercise stimulus, which I think is what you're really getting at, sets to failure tend to be very, very fatiguing, compared to sets where there are one or more repetitions left in reserve. The level exercises tend to be more fatiguing that exercises that you've either done before or exercises that you've done similar variations to, that secondary to the repeated bout effect. Other things that tend to be, again, more fatiguing out of proportion to the exercise stimulus tend to be really heavy. High RPE type work at really high load. So for example, if the general intensity range that drives strength improvements is somewhere between 60 to 80 percent on average, that's where most of your volume work will be done just due to the nature of being able to complete a lot of repetitions in that sort of range. It's not that 80 percent doing sets of four, for example, or five, whatever, at 80 percent gives you a greater strength benefit than doing sets of four or five at 70 percent, for example. But it does cost you more fatigue. So when you think about trying to drive the sort of signal to build fitness adaptations up, you'd want to do more sets higher volume and not necessarily incur a bunch of unwanted or unnecessary fatigue on this case, meaning extreneous. So workinGHeavier is not always better. I don't think that full body trening is necessarily more fatiguing than body part or exercise, like a split programs, sort of fatigue. I think fatigue is really unique to the individual and what they've done historically and what they're used to, what their expectations are and in addition, like all the individual characteristics that make them them. So the exercise stimulus is what it is. It gets filtered through again, all the things that make you, you, and then on the other side is the stress which drives both fitness adaptations and fatigue. So how do I think about fatigue? I think about fatigue is sort of a necessary thing that occurs as, you know, again, fitness adaptations go up. Fatigue is also going to go up ideally not in proportion. Ideally, the fitness adaptations outstrip the amount of fatigue that's occurring and therefore you get better. Your best performances will not occur in general when fatigue is at its lowest. So for example, you could go on vacation, right? Take a week off and you're fatigue, particularly from trening is going to go way way down. You slept a bunch, you didn't exercise, you didn't tren, you ate a bunch of food, all as well, but when you come back to the gym, you don't usually PR. Why? Because your fitness adaptations have decayed. So I don't know that I would be trying to minimize fatigue all the time. Rather, I think a better focus is to try to maximize fitness adaptations and fatigue will tend to tren down over time as you do workouts that are similar to ones you've done before. I would accommodate to what you've previously done. That's what tends to drive this sort of fitness adaptation accumulation that is at a greater rate than the amount of fatigue that you're incurring. So this is why you see in general high-perchary results occur a few weeks after the onset of trening rather than the initial onset of trening, you kind of have to get used to the trening, same thing with strength improvements. So I just wouldn't worry about fatigue like from a recovery standpoint rather I worry about load and fatigue management within the context of a program based on what you've been doing so far. So hopefully that makes sense. Kind of a long answer for the first one, but yeah, had to do it. Best tips from a cut for recovering from a patello tendonopathy. Yes, so I would recommend you see the article paying in trening what do ideally you have to find some type of squatting or lower extremity exercise, maybe if you can't tolerate squatting where you can enter in and start doing that ideally to desensitize yourself. And it's going to be a lot of load management stuff. So patella tendonopathy overuse injury, although tendonopathy is kind of the somebrella term that just encompasses all tendon related pain, but it doesn't really describe what's going on, although that probably isn't that important anyway. So I would find something that you can do and gradually increase that over time to where you return to normal activity, that's outlined in the pain and trening what do you article and if you need specific advice would contact our pain and rehab team. They would do it. But do you think of the general military fitness tests? For example, the Marine Corps PFT is max pull ups, max hit ups in a minute, three mile run. I don't think anything about them. IMean, I'm beinGHonest, I think that each organization can come up with a series of fitness tests that it deems valuable for identifying folks who are prepared to do the job that they're contracted to do to the extent that these fitness tests reliably do that and are both sensitive and specific enough to identify those individuals who pass the test therefore are able to do the job and then a friend of yours who don't pass the test, they can't do the test. I don't know that and I don't know that data on that. I would guess that the new fitness tests from the Army, where they do a trap-art ed lift and a couple other odd movements, I say odd because they're not their traditional pull ups setups, push ups, et cetera. I think that probably more accurately represents what people are likely to do in the field. But again, I'm not an expert there and I don't know the data as far as individuals who are in the armed services who pass the PFT, whatever it may be and then ultimately cannot do the jobs, ask of them versus people who don't pass that test and can. So I don't know, how would you design a two week taper and peak-free female intermediate lifter? So we have free peaking templates on our website. There's a slow and a fast one just based on some kind of trens we've seen across different types of lifters. But I wouldn't program it in any sort of specific way just because it's a woman lifter. Women in men respond nearly identically to trening with respect to strength, hypertrophy, power, cardiovascular fitness trening. And I would not program specifically for somebody just because it's a woman or a man, just like I wouldn't program specifically for somebody because they're young or older or any particular ethnicity. People on general will respond about the same unless they have great genetics or adult poor genetic hand or other environmental things like nutrition, other lifestyle factors, etc. Can really tip the scales far as response to trening but yeah, there aren't a sex specific responses to trening that you would need to consider when coming up with a sort of trening program. Can any gains be made when one trens once per week? IMean, somebody who previously never trened before will likely get stronger, gain some muscular hypertrophy, cardiovascular endurance if they're trening that, etc. If they're only formally trening once per week, that's not going to work for very long. The effectively, the individual will accommodate to that sort of trening stimulus. And while they're not incurring additional fatigue, they're also not incurring additional fitness adaptations. And so the way that you increase fitness adaptations is by increasing the signal, increasing the exercise stimulus. And so if you can't really do that by only trening once per week, it's certainly better than not trening but you know, would start to work towards those guideline minimums at least, which is resistance trening twice per week and doing a certain amount of aerobic trening depending on the intensity. Usually 150 to 300 minutes for moderate intensity, aerobic trening, or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity aerobic trening. If you're not tired of the conjugatEQuestions, what do you think about the idea that power squats, aka Westside Barbell Style is the best squat for muscle strength, sports, injury prevention, etc. IMean, I am tired of the conjugatEQuestions, but claiming that any particular squat is best for developing muscle mass is completely bogus strength. There are strength-specific adaptations to each type of exercise, because strength is specific. So again, that's just tells you that whoever is saying that doesn't know what they're talking about for sports. There are no squats that are uniquely better, you know, best suited towards sports. That doesn't make any sense of an injury prevention. You can't prevent injuries anyway. You can only reduce the risk. So again, somebody who said that has just identified themselves as not a subject matter expert and then instead of arguing with them, because that's not what you would want to do, you would just go somewhere else and spend your time wisely, getting involved in the community, making a positive difference, learning something, learning a new skill, interacting with other humans to build your social circle up, something like that. All right, had my appendix removed a few days ago and was told not to lift heavy weights for several weeks, still worth taking creatine at this time. I don't know that I would consciously stop taking creatine. It's not like it's, you know, any risk for you to continue taking it. It's just, you know, yeah, you're not leaking out, you know, an additional couple percent of performance maybe, because you're not trening. So you could stop taking it if you wanted to, but no real benefit to stop taking it either. Very, very curious, basic differences and recommendations for programming linear progressions, slash novices between starting strength and barbell medicine. Oh, pretty much every step of the way. I think our beginner prescription, which is free article and sort of program, um, and our beginner template, which is an expanded version of that, uh, kind of highlight all the differences, but very briefly, we don't think that you should specialize in four or five exercises, particularly because you wouldn't, in no sport, in no career, in no real setting, do you specialize early on in someone's trening? You want a variety of trening with respect to exercise. It improves motor learning. So how good you get it, doing the exercise. It reduces in risk of injury, uh, improves leg body mass outcomes. You also wouldn't specialize in, any sort of particular reps games. You would only do fives. You would get proficient in multiple reps games because there are different adaptations that you'd want to get across different rep ranges that don't, if you uniquely happen at five, five is just arbitrary made up number. It's not particularly useful for any specific thing. It's that for getting good at fives. You'd want auto regulation. So RPE are reps and reserve session RPE, something like that, um, or an objective, whether way to track, or the, like a velocity tracker, but that's probably unnecessary and overkill for somebody who's new to lifting, and you'd want to include cardiovascular fitness, uh, trening specifically and not avoid that because that helps build your trening base so that you can exercise enough to build for long-term development of strength. Um, again, all discussed in our beginner prescription, uh, beginner template is a set of, uh, four sets of five and RPE eight, any more or less fatigueing than two sets of ten at RPE eight, I would expect it to be more fatiguing. One, this is multiple sets to near failure to because the weight is substantially heavier. Um, those would be my two, you know, sort of thoughts there. But again, comparing just one rep protocol against another, probably is not the way I'd base programming. I would try to look at the entire program and, and compare that to another program. What's the deal with calves and why are they so hard to grow? Uh, calves are a muscle. There's an heel lateral heads and the soleus sits underneath. I don't necessarily think they're that hard to grow. I just don't think people tren them, and they certainly don't tren them diligently. It's kind of like arms in a way, um, you know, people will do, you know, four sets of arms, uh, you know, or biceps and triceps per week and be like, well, I don't they grow and it's like, because you're not doing near enough or they'll do 10 sets and you're like, well, I don't why don't they grow that much? Because you're not doing nearly enough. Same thing with calves, people do calves once a week and they're like, why don't they grow? It's like, do not even close to enough. And then also people will do them for like three or four weeks and be like, why didn't my calves grow a bunch? It's like, it's only four weeks. It's not enough. Yeah. So just like anything else takes time and, you know, diligent effort here. Will my heart explode if I have a pre-workout with 300 milligrams of caffeine in it? So I did a whole YouTube video on caffeine, the current FDA guidelines recommends less than 400 milligrams of caffeine per day. Although individual tolerance is likely varies well higher and lower than that. The dose at which benefits are typically seen varies between three to six or three to nine milligrams of caffeine per kilogram body weight per day. So 300 milligrams is on the low end for most individuals depending on how much they weigh. But this is all tolerance. And your heart's not going to explode anyway. Heart rate doesn't really go up with caffeine. Blood pressure doesn't go up with caffeine. So to answer your question directly, no, but as far as how much caffeine should have, based on your individual tolerance, preferences, et cetera. The way we, you know, people are using caffeine pre-workouts so that they increase their arousal. Not that kind of arousal, but arousal to do, to engage in exercise and improve their performance. And this can be modeled across this or is modeled by this law called the Yerks Dodson Law of arousal. So it looks like a bell curve. And so on the left side of the curve, you know, as you're going up the slope, you are under sort of arous, basically, you're not ready to perform et cetera peak. And then at the top, that's your peak level. You're in a certain level of arousal. And then if you go to higher levels of arousal, your performance actually drops off. You're too height, you know, too many trap slaps, too much caffeine, too much ammonia, or, you know, whatever else you're using to get up for a workout. So I would try to find a dose that you like and respond well, too, and stick to that dose. You don't get used to the caffeine as far as a like reduction in performance sort of improvements. You sure you get tolerance to the caffeine in so far as the metabolism can can get a little faster. But the irgogenic or performance enhancing benefits of caffeine don't require progressively higher and higher doses. That's all just made up stuff. Is timing of protein intake important for muscle protein synthesis or if my intake is efficient over a given period, it's always available? I don't really understand thEQuestion, but yeah, protein timing is somewhat important, I guess, on a micro level, meaning that if you continuously dose yourself with protein throughout the day, you would not have as many muscle protein synthesis events that if you had like discrete bolus to meals. So, you know, you eat meal and then you fast, you know, and you can do that every three to five hours. If you, you know, continuously fed with protein throughout the day and you only took, you know, 90 minutes from the end of one meal for the start of another meal. That meal would probably not contribute to muscle protein synthesis right then, but maybe later, time after you've again fasted for a period of time. How much does all of that matter in the grand scheme of things? I think none. I wouldn't even consider it when building a dietary pattern or considering protein intake. I just don't think it matters at all. Is absence of evidence ever evidence of absence? Sure, yeah. So, one example I really like has to do with trening pregnant women. We assume there's some non-zero risk with respect to exercise during pregnancy, meaning there's a risk to maybe mom and or baby. We don't know that to be the case because the existing evidence actually doesn't report a lot of, you know, bonafide or confirmed cases. And so, like right now, because CrossFit's got so popular and resistance trening is gotten much, much more popular and high-intensity interval trening like courses, you know, so like on-steery and soul cycle, whatever, all the stuff has gotten much, much larger. We would expect to see case report after case report after case report. If there were, if there was a substantial risk to mom or baby during pregnancy with exercise, well, you don't see any of that. And so there's an absence of evidence. And so in that case, you really would expect case reports and a lot of data coming out on this if it were a significant risk. So, I think that that is evidence in and of itself that the risk, even though we assume it to be non-zero, it's probably not just wildly high. And I think that's reflected in the latest guidelines from the 2019 Canadian Physical Activity Guidelines during pregnancy. Jordan, auto-regulation in programming seems to focus on set intensity and session RPE, when, slash, how do you ever auto-regulate volume in a trening plan? So, oh, I think I see what you're saying, so basically work up, you know, to a set of a certain rep scheme at RPE, whatever, that focuses more on load on the bar. Session RPE is really a measure of fatigue rather than a set of a measurement of exertion, but that's for another Instagram live. So, as far as regulating volume, you could do body weight stuff. For example, that's a good easy example here, so you could do pull-ups to RPE, so you're regulating volume, or you could do a work-up to a set of, you know, five reps at RPE, and then do as many sets as it takes to get to RPE 9, so you're regulating total volume there, or you could do, you know, a set of six at RPE 9, and then take 10% off the bar and do as many sets of six until that feels like a 9 again, again, regulating volume using RPE. If I go into A-500 calorie deficit, but maintain ideal protein intake, can I lose weight while making gains? I assume you mean improving strength as one of the gains that you're referring to, and sure that I find that is almost entirely related to programming, not at all related to a modest calorie change, certainly not 500 calories. I don't know that I would be only focusing on protein intake, particularly ideal protein intake, because the other components of nutrition are also important, as far as gaining muscle mass, if you're untrened or under-trened, sure, you could probably gain some muscle mass, but it's unlikely to be as much as if you were gaining weight, although we don't really know. Great paper by Slater and colleagues 2019, it was like how many calories are needed to build muscle or something like that. What's the argument against trening at the lowest possible effective intensity so that you can increase volume as much as possible? I haven't heard many well articulated arguments against that other than like getting better at liftinGHeavy weights, in order to get better at liftinGHeavy weights, you have to lift heavy weights, and I would agree with that, but I think that there's a wider range of effective intensities for that, particularly when you frame it through, it's a need for additional volume, and then people just think if it's not hard, it doesn't work, and it's like, IMean, the proof exists in both the exercise science literature and then also in the world, as far as our coaching clientele, our TES is coaching clientele, helms coaching clientele, the data driven strength, the guy's coaching clientele, over and over, this is not like a one-off thing, and it's not necessarily new, just now we're better able to explain it. If I'd deadlift heavy will my waist get thicker? It's unlikely, IMean, so you think about how your waist would actually get thicker, you're not changing your boni anatomy to any significant degree, right? Yes, your bone mineral density is like that increase with axial skeleton loading, that's fancy way of just saying like bearing weight, but it's not like your abs or your erector group, or any muscles of your trunk are going to, you know, spontaneously hypertrophy faster than any muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that's ever been recorded in the exercise science literature. Like it just, it's not particularly without taking substantial amounts of animal ox steroids and or growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone secretive to eggs, or something like that, which would stimulate a substantial amount of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, and furthermore without being in a calorie surplus. So the idea that you could like rapidly gain a bunch of muscle without, you know, something else going on seems unlikely. For competitive sports athletes, what are the implications on performance for doing a fat loss diet in season? Usually doesn't affect performance, particularly based on the data that we have at present, and then reducing extra adipostissue tends to improve performance in most sports. So overall thoughts on weighted dips, I think that they're fine, and I don't think they provide any unique stress to the Glent O'Humeral or shoulder joint compared to other upper limb exercises. I think they're just another exercise that aren't like specifically good or specifically bad. It's just another tool to use if it's something you want to do or appropriate to your goals. Yeah, hey Doc, hope all is well when starting a fat loss phase. What's the best way to determine when weight loss is beyond just initial water weight? IMean, you can't do it without some objective testing, but if you're a waste or conference goes down, that's fine. If you see continued weight loss after the first, you know, weaker too, that was likely unrelated to water loss. But here's the more important thing. Why doesn't matter? And I don't mean that to minimalize your question, but like, how would you, what would you do differently if you found out that the first week or two of your diet most of the weight loss was due to water weight loss? Like, nothing. So I just wouldn't even worry about it. Let's see, for guys in the military, also women, they make us run a lot. Do you suggest more intake of food to gain mass because we will have to run and lift in the same day as well as maximize sleep? Yes, so I think the greater your physical activity goes up, the more calories you're going to need to maintain weight. If you're trying to gain weight, you're going to have to go even higher than that. To the extent that the additional running substantially changes your physical activity, yeah, you're going to need more calories. But I probably wouldn't do that preemptively. I would just see what happened after a week or two of this new, found activity level to see what happens with your weight. But doesn't change, then you're accommodating for this in other ways. I don't know that I would try to maximize sleep as far as just duration, because getting seven, eight hours is probably enough. I don't know that you need to sleep more than that. But I would try to maximize thEQuality, sure. So not necessarily being exposed to much LED light right before bed. I don't think blue blockers have good enough data to support their use. But yeah, avoiding electronics, highly stimulating activities, stimulants, etc. So that you can have a normal sleep, wake cycle, try to go to bed around the same and get out of bed the same time each day. All good ideas. What is the best exercise for hip slash glute growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? I think there are a bunch of different ones that all work about the same, you know, and so I don't know that there's one that stands, you know, heads and shoulders better than the other ones. I think hip thruster great squats of all kinds are great lunges, step ups, rdails, good mornings, etc. All can be useful as far as which one is the best. You look for one that's got, you can do a lot of volume. It's got a big, you know, relatively large range of motion and isn't that fatiguing. And so that's all going to be personal preference basically. Is there a quick fix for squats sticking in the middle of the concentric? Good out of the whole and very fast lockout as well? Yes, I think with sticking points, there are like non-modifiable sticking points and then modifiable sticking points. So the modifiable ones would be due more to positioning, posture, technique, etc. That being said, non-modifiable ones, it's just, yo, that's your sticking point. It's going to be there forever. It's just going to happen at heavier heavier weights as you get stronger and stronger. It's like, it never gets easier. You just go faster that Greg LeMont quote. So never gets easier. The sticking point never ceases to be. It just gets stronger. Yeah, and most people will stick, that's the normal sticking point for a squat. So I see people on YouTube putting raw egg whites into their workout shakes instead of protein powder for those of us not name Rocky is eating raw eggs safe. IMean, there's a non-zero risk to eating non-pasturized egg products that aren't cooked and the bio-availability is drastically reduced when not cooked and there are no benefits to eating these eggs. So I don't know why that is a thing. Yeah, long-term, down-sides to alternate grip for dead lifts. None, as far as I can tell. I think that the hook grip is probably has a mechanical advantage with respect to deadlifting less likely to have a little windmill. But as far as overall development, I think they're about the same. Thoughts on microdo scene to treat ADD slash ADHD. So there's some interesting data coming out on a handful of substances, ketamine, MDMA, some on marijuana and various different sort of medical applications that we're trying to study and not we as barbomedicine but like the medical community is trying to study and kind of see what the reliable benefits that we can reliably see with their use. I think it's too early to tell and I certainly wouldn't recommend microdo scene to anybody right now. As far as the self-treatment. I think there are unknown risks and unknown benefits and I feel like that that's just risky calculus there. Yeah, I probably wouldn't recommend that. Dude at my gym says you shouldn't do pause slash tempo work if you're already a slow lifter. Thoughts, IMean I think that's would be easily countered with askinGHim what is the velocity that most successful third attempts are lifted at in a meet? They're all very slow. We're trying to improve low velocity force production. So pauses, worth the isometric portion, tempo work is really just a way to control for a fit load and fatigue management. There's some unique benefits to eccentric trening that we're trying to maximize, maybe with tempo work or with overload tempo work or with overload work in general, which is inherently slower on the eccentric. But the idea is that during the concentric portion you're trying to move as fast as possible all the time so that really just negates his entire argument. And so I don't know. I don't know. I'd ask him what his deadlift is just to like assert dominance. What would be the best way to motivate parents to start resistance trening if they are reluctant to carry out high RPE sets? I would just ask him what resistance trening they want to do and then what exercises in particular they want to do and then have them work in a variety of rep ranges and if they only wanted to go to RP7, that's fine. You could also use the feeling scale, which is a validated auto regulation tool. You could say, yeah you should do this set at this weight for this many reps and it should end up feeling kind of bad at the end for example and that's probably hard enough. But RP7 would be about the same. Any recommendations on how to more accurately assess RPE after each set. So you're really not worried about the accuracy. You're worried about the precision. So I don't really care how close it is to the actual value. I care how close it is each time you do it to the value that you rated it before. So like what you call an eight is always an eight and that's the same. So I would just the best way to improve your precision is to keep doing it and keep using it. Do you practice medicine? There's a great place to end. So no after residency I just did barblem just been doing barblem medicine ever since. Was doing some online telemed stuff for a while but now my whole sole focus is barblem medicine and this is more of a public health promotion thing and education thing for other physicians, other healthcare professionals but I do not see patients any longer. Okay, hey look next week we're going to be back here. 530 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. Be here. Look this was a week showing. I thought we were going to be over 200 but I appreciate you guys all coming out. You guys are great. I'm going to post this to my IGTV also to my Instagram feeds. So if you want to go back through this you can some of this will probably end up on YouTube. Yeah we'll see you guys later. Thanks for coming.

=== FILE: Livestream Q⧸A 10.25.2019 [RAAp4O01ya0].txt ===

I welcome back to Instagram Live. I am Dr. George Biden, I was barbell medicine. I was saying, so I lose brain cells when you don't close long. I lose brain cells when I don't close long. If you need ligate, it's an inch of machine bad for your needs. Nope. I welcome back to Instagram Live. I am Dr. George and I welcome back with barbell medicine. It is October 25th. I am Friday. I am trying to get in the habit of doing these live things a little bit more often. IMiss you guys. If you've never joined us on one of these before, it's a Q&A session. You guys ask questions. I try to provide answers, nuance answers. To the best of my ability, if I don't get to your question, I apologize. If it seems like I skipped over your question, I also apologize, but perhaps this isn't the best place for it, in which case, let's say head over to our forum, go to barbell medicine.com, look on the forum, sign up. Before the forum, you can ask questions. We're pretty active on there. Let's go over announcements first. So announcement number one, we have a bunch of new content coming out next week. We got a podcast with Alan Flanagan, a blog post about that podcast going up the same day. That's on Monday as well. Have our vlog from Ron Nationals going up next week. We have our newsletter that's going to go out next week. We have our barbell medicine research review that's going to go out next week, but the Monday following our paint first, paint and rehab seminar in Boston. We have another paint rehab seminar coming up in January, in Reno, Nevada. So if you want to sign up for that head over to eventbrite.com. We also have a few spots left open for our Portland regular barbell medicine seminar in Portland. That's coming up here in a few short weeks. So again, you can sign up on our website or eventbrite.com, search barbell medicine. Let's see what else. So we have our barbell medicine shirts are going to be up in the shop tonight. There are logo shirts, those cool ones that we were wearing at Ron Nationals. See, is there anything else that I'm missing? I'm sure there's stuff that I'm missing. Sure there's stuff that I'm missing, but I want to make sure that we get to some good questions, some good content here. So let's go into Instagram and get somEQuestions. Now you guys who are going to watch us on YouTube in the future, maybe wondering why aren't you streaming live on YouTube? Well, one, the algorithm is not great. They don't, it doesn't pop up in people's search engines for, you know, when they search for barbell medicinEQ&A. I don't know. So it's not good for views unless I post it like this. Then two internet connection bandwidth, all that stuff is tough even if I try to do this like one man show for YouTube live streams. So make it there in the future by getting somebody else to help me out here. But otherwise, it's just me. So we're scrolling up. We're going to find somEQuestions. Hey, Jordan, our leg extensions bad for your knees. So this is actually something that comes up all the time. Leg extensions being quote unquote bad for your knees. And so then when you ask people why do they say that it's bad for your knees? And they say, well, the moment arm on the knee, there's a shearing force and this is, you know, bad, that force, that type of force is bad for the knees because you're applying force at the end of the lower limb segment right near the ankle, right? That's where the pad of the leg extension machine sits. And then there's support underneath the actual knee joint itself. And so you got this long moment arm and it's causing shear forces on the knees or people say it's an open chain exercise. And those are inherently worse for apparently pain outcomes, which is not based in evidence. So the leg extensions are perfectly fine exercise. Does not appear to cause knee injury if you use, you know, any reasonable definition for injury. So something that precludes folks from participating in sport or the recreational pursuits causes pain, right, causes dysfunction. And it has to probably do that for a longer, or a certain period of time, right? If it causes pain for five minutes and then it goes away completely, it doesn't affect your ability to, again, participate in sport, participate in recreational pursuits, you know, or activities of daily life for more than five minutes, then I don't know that that's an injury, right? So yeah, you know, leg extensions are fine. Exercise, they're probably, are they're not very specific to squats or dead lifts or anything like that. So from a strength trening perspective, probably not terribly useful, but for a body building from a body building perspective, from a rehab perspective, they have some use, particularly getting people to believe that their knees aren't always going to hurt every time they apply force through that. The reason why they're so useful in body building is because you can do a ton of reps and sets without really overfitting the person where as you can't really do the same for squats. So it's funny when Austin and I were actually at our CrossFit level one MD, the certification course in QI, QI, QI, QI, it was in Hawaii on the island of QI. It was funny because when they started talking about pain and injury, I was the one who PIPed up and was like, hey, that's probably not correct. We should probably think about it like this and make sure not to build these harmful narratives because Austin, you know, was, is blood pressure through the roof and then when they started talking about some nutrition stuff that was inaccurate, my blood pressure through the roof and Austin actually is PIPed up. So it was kind of interesting that we both like had each other's backs on that and yeah, they said at that seminar, like, oh, well, I can prove to you that the leg extension is a far more dangerous exercise than the squat and it's like, you know, and goes to that mechanical analysis, which is not only a complete misrepresentation of where we're at with respect to modeling pain, you know, from the biomedical model versus bio-cycle social model and then also just, you know, completely like negates, you know, people building their own positive narratives around exercise. So again, if somebody tells you that you put a position of power, like, hey, this exercise is dangerous for you. This exercise can hurt you. This exercise is uniquely dangerous. This exercise is bad for you. Then anytime that you are exposed to it, you know, you run a greater risk of having pain afterwards, whereas it's just a completely neutral stimulus, as long as you don't color it or filter it incorrectly based on your individual characteristics, which includes psychological social inputs, then, you know, you're probably going to be fine. So I actually did some leg extensions today. There you go. All right, considerations for golf and tennis strength conditioning is not a question so much as a big topic, right? Considerations for golf and tennis strength and conditioning. So from a conditioning standpoint, the way I kind of analyze this stuff first, look at the conditioning components. So what do you need for a golf from a conditioning component? Probably not that much uniquely in the way of actual, like, cardiovascular fitness, just because the nature of the sport is, you know, you end up taking so many swings, they last this long, and you have a lot of downtime in between. You might make a case that a person with better aerobic fitness is better able to tolerate either multiple rounds in a day or multiple rounds over the course of a weekend. And I would get behind that. That means that I don't think it's unique to golf. I think, you know, all sport, all recreational physical pursuits probably benefit from increasing aerobic fitness. Tennis is different because the plays can last longer. So probably a bigger impetus for an aerobic conditioning in a way and particularly running at high speeds because that's how they end up cutting across the course or the court, not the course. Sorry, I got golf and tennis mixed up there. From a strength perspective, you'd certainly want to participate in more high velocity for production stuff. So the weight's necessarily going to be lighter so that, you know, you can tren squat, bench, deadlift, press, or any variation of those things at a lighter weight. So you can move them at high velocities. That would probably be a big component there. Doesn't mean all of the work would be high velocity, but a substantial portion of it. You'd probably also want to do some rotational work as well. That means that when you look at like meta-analysis, particularly on golf, I've been super interested in this because I've been playing a bunch of golf lately. It seems like anything that makes golfers stronger and able to produce more force makes them be able to hit the ball a little harder, a little more ball speed, a little more club head speed. So this is the opposite in the context of practicing the sport. So you wouldn't just want to go to the gym and not go to the range, not go to the course, not practice your sport, that would be silly. So yeah, I think there's a lot of different options. There's probably no one set of exercises that is like, this is the best stuff, but you definitely have some high velocity works and rotational work and then your traditional S&C stuff. So hopefully that helps. Do you have any tips on how to use a belt? I've never used one. Yeah, so a couple of tips. So one purchasing a belt, like I want a belt. What do I do? I don't have any brand allegiance to any particular belt manufacturer. I personally think that most folks who are getting into strength trening should get a 4 inch wide belt and then as far as the thickness goes, I like a 13 millimeter belt. 10 millimeter belt is the other that's the other common size for these swayed belts. I don't recommend a Velcro belt unless you're just doing Olympic weight lifting, but yeah, other than that, I wouldn't get a Velcro belt and they're not legal and most power of new federations or any power of new federations as far as I'm aware. And any event, I think that 13 millimeter belt is, that's my preference. If you want to, if you have any inkling to be in a power lifter or you just want a really good belt to go lift all the weights, I'd get a 4 inch belt. That's like the standard 10 millimeter belt, this little thinner. So if you're on the lighter side or have no idea about competing the future, 10 millimeter spine, but I would recommend a 4 inch wide, 13 millimeter belt. Single prong is my preference. Double prong is fine a little bit more finicky to latch, but some people like those. My first belt was a double prong. And if you want a lever belt, that's cool too. I don't like them. Austin loves them. So that's anyway. You have a bunch of different options, but that's kind of how you would make your decision. And then it's far as how to use it. Same thing is to figure out the appropriate level of tightness. So and where to where it, those are the two big considerations. So I would recommend wearing it as tight as it can be without it moving around or compromising your ability to perform a Valsalva maneuver. So if it's so loose that it's moving around when you lift, it's probably, you should probably go in another hole. If it's so tight that you can't actually take a big deep breath because it's really constricting you and constricting your ability to expand your thoracic and abdominal cavities, and it's probably one-to-tight. And then in this far as where to where it, I think you should put it on one hole, a little too loose, then do a squat with it. And the belt will usually kind of drift to the right position for you to get started, you know, general rule of thumb. And it kind of be able to figure it out over time where you prefer it, but that's a good place to start. So and then after you figure out where it's supposed to sit, cinch it down one more hole and you're ready to go. Yeah, that's what I think you should do with the belt. You're going to, you know, auto squat, for example, you're going to walk the way out. You're going to do the Valsalva maneuver, which means take a big breath and hold it, bear down. Some people like to think about expanding their abdomen or bracing. I prefer the bracing, you know, where you're trying to almost make yourself do a mini crunch while you take this big breath in and hold it. That's my preferred method. I don't think you should try to actively push your belly out against the belt. I don't think that's the terribly useful cue. Although sometimes it works, you know, it's hard to speak in absolutes here. Let's see, spring, 20, 20, $7 for junior beach. We are coming to Norfolk, Virginia in spring, 2020. I think it's spring. If you do the spring or summer, I don't know like when the cutoff is and I've actually ever get the date of our summer, but it's on our 2020 schedule. Yes, I am filming my documentary reaction video. It's not like my documentary. It's to the game changers video, the new Netflix. I think it's on Netflix documentary about vegan athletes. So that'll be fun. I'm going to film that tomorrow. Biggest mistake of your coaching career. I don't know. What's one thing you might have done differently in hindsight? The biggest thing I think which is not unique to coaching is just how people learn. It actually become, you know, educated and experienced in their field. You just end up being overconfident at first. So I think it would have been nice to have found a mentor earlier in my coaching career that would have let me down the right path. And I don't know that I can be too critical on myself because it just happens. But probably the first two years of my coaching career. I was kind of like, IMean, it was a perfect situation. There wasn't a lot of information out there on coaching, just period. And then too, there weren't a lot of people who were like, you know, in the space who were writing articles or were available for this mentorship kind of thing. And so everyone was like out on their own in the wild, wild west. You really had deep squatter with Louis Simmons. You too was like barely, you know, getting, you know, lifting videos up. Certainly not instructional stuff. And then seminar wise. IMean, man, you really just had the USAW and USA track and field. Those are the only and crossfit. Those are the people doing seminars and crossfit is like just started really. So yeah, I don't know. I don't want to be too critical of myself. But if I had to do it over again, I would probably try to seek out a mentor earlier on in my coaching career. And that would have instilled in me some more humility right off the bat. That would have been a good idea. Thank you for podcast recommendation on lipids on the JAMA podcast. Oh, yeah. So if you have not gone over to, well, wherever you get your podcasts from, JAMA clinical reviews, they have really great frequent podcast uploads. We're basically they interview and talk about the latest science with the researchers who perform the review. This one's actually with Brian, parents who is an absolute savage in the world of lipidology and cardiovascular disease. And this latest one, it's the thing that's lipids and cardiovascular health. I think it's the title of it on JAMA, Stanford Journal of American Medical Association, Clinical Review, Wood Recum, and listening to that, he's got two new papers. I think, or at least one new paper that he's author on and I know, oh, he's a co-author on the second one. Those published in New England Journal Medicine, the other one is published in JAMA, JAMA. So, in any event, he's got a bunch of other great papers on this subject as well. What would go, would recommend listening that podcast? These are a specific point where you would recommend someone stop weight loss after a significant drop to start gaining lean weight again or just personal preference. IMean, as long as we're not talking about people who are going to an underweight situation based on BMI or who have lost a significant amount of muscle mass, it should become, you know, that point you would be caquette. If you lost a bunch of lean body mass and fat mass, one of the differences between kick-caccia and as farcapini as you can actually lose muscle mass and gain fat or have too much fat and be sarcapini have sarcapini goviscity whereas kick-caccia is like this global loss of flesh, both fat and muscle tissue and there's some other syndromes, a syndromic kind of of symptoms that are associated with that as well. So, yeah, provided we're not talking about anything like that. Yes, really just personal preference. IMean, how big and jacked do you want to be? I think gain lean body mass certainly useful for gain strength and also carrying more lean body mass obviously. But there's no like this is how lean you should get with respect to kind of lean body mass. Again, as long as we're not talking about people who develop medical conditions from losing so much weight. Does a leg press engage more muscle fibers than the barbell squats? No, I don't think so. And it really depends on I kind of go one step further to try to clarify this question. So, if we're just restricting this analysis between leg press and barbell squat to muscle fibers of the lower extremity, so of legs and we're not talking about the trunk or and back, that's the only real fair comparison that you can make because the squat obviously is going to tren engage more of those muscle fibers due to the fact that it's freestanding the additional joints are moving, so you have a lot more muscle mass involved than a leg press. But with respect to just lower extremity, motor unit recruitment, yeah, it's you're really not going to see a big difference. Probably about the same as long as both exercises are being done to close to failure for similar amount of reps. Yeah. Good afternoon doc. Well, I think, you know, time is it. It's almost six. Yeah. I guess for your ed. Good afternoon. All right. How and why is trening a few reps from failure beneficial for strength purposes? Yeah, well, so the first part of this strength is specific to context to how it's trened, you know? So if you, for instance, if you only tren sets of 10, then you're likely to get the biggest payoff, the biggest trensference, the biggest carryover to like a 10-ret max or heavy set of 10. Conversely, if you only tren 5, your biggest trensference carryover or trening an outcome improvement is likely to be strength in sets of 5. So, you know, you'd have to further refine this question for, you know, to make it to clarify, or we talked about one RMS strength, five RMS strength, 10 RMS strength, 20 RMS strength. But if we're just talking about strength in general to the extent that even exists, right? The ability to produce force across a bunch of different, a bunch of different contexts, trening a few reps shy of failure effectively is a strategy to recruit more motor units. So let's say you're doing a heavy set of 5. The first rep, you know, and these are all just made up numbers, these are not experimentally determined numbers, but, you know, for the sake of this argument, this general premise holds true. So instead of 5, heavy set of 5 is like 86% of a 1 RMS, so 5 RMS is about 86% of some of these 1 RMS, give or take, because people are different. You know, doing the first rep, you might engage, 65%, 70% of all of the muscle fibers that you can voletionally recruit. Two, you know, rep number two, you're at 75%, get maybe getting close to 80% of all the voletional muscle fibers that you can voletionally recruit. And this is not 100% of all your muscle fibers, just the ones that you have voletional access to. By rep three, you're getting close to 100% of all of the motor units that you can voletionally recruit and then reps 4 and 5, you know, pegged 100% or close enough to all of those muscle fibers that you can voletionally recruit. So by trening close to failure, but not necessarily too failure, you get that motor unit recruitment. Same thinGHappens. It's at the 10, 20, 25, 30, it's just the actual adaptations that you're selecting for our specific to the rep ranges that you're engaging in. That's the biggest difference there. Any plans for selling barbell medicine banner for those of us with garage gyms? So we just made a bunch for the coaches. I don't know if we'll be releasing them publicly, but it's not off the chart, not off the table, off the chart, off the table. Yeah. What sort of trening block are you running right now? I saw you enjoying those sweet 15s. Also any reason for the 15s are just a bit of fun. Yes, it's just a pivot week. I just had a meet two weeks ago and vowed ready to get back into regular trening. Might have another week of just kind of low stress. Different exercises, different rep ranges, all that sort of stuff. So 15s, it's just light enough where it's not going to cause a ton of fatigue, get a nice little pump and then move on. Yeah. If you could go back and teach 30 year old Jordan one piece of advice, what would it be? So I'm 34. So it's four years ago. What would I do in age 30? I think I turned 30. I was in residency, I guess. What would I teach myself then? I don't know. I probably just would have tried to sleep more. I think that would have been the big thing. Try to get more sleep. Yeah. Almost done with the legacy 12 week strength and not sure which new templates to do next. In GPP, I purchased first half of 2019. Then did thralls free program before this and want to keep focusing on powerlifting. Yeah. If you did 12 week strength, that do powerlifting too. You'd probably have to do a powerlifting three. Yeah. One of those those two, if you're interested in getting stronger, those would be the two most focused ones and most appropriate for you given what you recently ran. Yeah. Is it a waste of a workout if I go out and drink later that night? A waste of a workout? No. Not necessarily. IMean, you know, alcohol has some significant effects on muscle proteins, synthesis and muscles themselves and your sleep architecture and all sorts of stuff. So it can certainly compromise or attenuate strength improvements if you go out and get drunk short. But having a few drinks, you know, probably not going to be a big deal. Yeah. If your goal is hypertrophy and your advanced lifter, could you make an argument that it would be counterintuitive to run a hypertrophy block while on a calorie while on a calorie deficit? IMean, you're unlikely to gain a significant amount of lean body mass while you're in a calorie deficit. So I don't know that it's counterintuitive because in, you know, if the calorie deficit is last, it runs long enough and it's significant enough, you know, think about getting ready for a bodybuilding show, for example. Then some principles or practices that are normally used in a hypertrophy trening. So higher reps, significant amount of isolation exercises or less fatiguing exercise selection, stuff like that. What all be useful, especially when you think about the main role of trening, it's really, you know, two main roles. Primarily to reduce any lean body mass losses and then two is sort of a metabolic thing, you know, burn calories to increase your sort of calorie burn total daily energy expenditure throughout the day. So, you know, you have higher volume, usually in hypertrophy blocks, you have less fatiguing exercises which can be useful during periods of higher stress, you know, higher, higher environmental stress. Maybe in this case due to the dietary constrents. And then you're still getting that muscle stimulation to preserve lean body mass to the best of the ability you can. Jordan, thank you for all the info you have shared about trening injuries. It has helped my trening tremendously. Sick. All right. Question, any benefit to occasionally squat without knee sleeves if so when? So I think if you go and look at like what, you know, sort of benefits, you get out of squatting with knee sleeves that helps better answer this question. So as far as actual scientific literature on knee-uprain knee sleeves, best data we have on this stuff is in osteoarthritis. People tend to report lower pain scores during physical activity with a knee-uprain sleeve. Also increases some joint warmth or temperature of the joint people subjectively report. They're joint feel little looser, more mobile, and you know, might be decreased their pain a little bit. On the other hand, if you start relying on knee sleeves all the time, you know, this is a fairly innocuous kind of trening tool, but you know, you would hate to like be hamstrung, pun intended by always using knee sleeves. So should you always use knee sleeves? IMean, I think if you're getting ready for a powerlifting meet and the performance in the gym and the trening stress from the gym is very, very important to driving trening outcomes. Sure, you know, I also don't think, you know, there's any huge benefit to trening without knee sleeves outside of, you know, if you ever forget them, then you're fine. If you wanted to do both, I think that's reasonable as well. I don't really have a strong opinion on this. And so when when I do it, you know, supplemental squat movement, probably be a good place to use it. Pivot weeks, maybe don't wear your knee sleeves. Yeah, those would be the places I wouldn't wear them necessarily. Oh, let's see. High dock. If you have a diet, high saturated fat, but you maintain good, be am I, good, waste or conference, good lean body mass, tren hard, and normal blood pressure are you still at risk? Are you still at an increased risk of ASCVD? So ASCVD stands for atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease. So yes, diets, high and saturated fat, compare to diets that are lower and saturated fat tend to increase the risk of atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease. The cut point is about 10% of total daily calories from saturated fat tend to promote deleterious changes in people's lipid profile, meaning that they have more atherogenic lipid profiles, usually LDL, particle concentration, so total LDL count, some evidence with triglycerides in there, but that's for whole another story where the podcast with the flanagan is going to recover this in more and depth. So replacing saturated fats with things like polyunsaturated fatty acids tend to be the most efficacious model in saturated fatty acids still efficacious replacing them with complex carbohydrates that are high in fiber also efficacious at reducing risk of ASCVD against athletic cardiovascular disease. Replacing with sugar makes worse. So yeah, IMean if you're talking about somebody who eats a diet that's got 11% of their total daily calories from saturated fat versus 8% of total daily calories from saturated fats. Probably not big deal to be in that range, but if you're talking about somebody who's following the carnivore diet and their total daily calorie intake, 70% of their total daily calories come from saturated fat and they bring it down 10. That would be a significant improvement. Now, yeah, so having a good BMI, appropriate blood pressure, et cetera, all good things, but there are other components that drive ASCVD. So would not recommend just yellowing your saturated fat Jordan, loving strength 3 so far. One thing I've noticed when I deadlift the first rep of the set usually feels harder than the second and third. Any ideas why? Yeah, this is not an unusual phenomenon. So one, there's this thing called a warm-up effect, or basically you're kind of tentative on the first rep because you're either low-key afraid or scared, then maybe it's going to hurt, and you're not really allowing all of your volitional motor units to kind of fire with maximum force. You kind of have a break on you, a restrictor plate, if you will. And then there's also another thing that we see where people set up for the first rep incorrectly, and they get feedback on that based on how the first rep move and then they fix it for their second and third rep, Sarah Bellum, and other pathways, the brain, it's final quarter like, hey, let's refine this. Let's get you a little more efficient here. So one thing you can do is just pull all of your sets of singles. So you pull a set of five as five singles, one way to kind of make sure that you can get over both of those things that warm-up effect, and then also maybe if your technique needs some refinement. You have any recommendations for someone wanting to start a blog, but not fall into the trap of pedaling misinformation because lack of expertise. Well, a couple tips. If you want to start a resource that you're going to like keep up with and ideally direct people towards. One is to come over the bunch of information before you launch. So that way you're not searching for content immediately. Like you have good content. Two, you know, making confident claims without supporting evidence is problematic. So that's something that you probably should avoid, and I think you'd be okay, Dylan, just knowing you and kind of how your mind works. And then finally, I don't know that I would be writing or opinion about things that I have no expertise in. Just, you know, like, like, I'm trying to think. So for example, I, you know, am not an expert in reproductive physiology. You know, fertility, for example, I know people who are experts in that. And if I wanted to write something about that, and I would probably reach out to them, either having, after having written what I wanted to write and using the appropriate resources to kind of get me closer to the truth. But I would want to make sure that an expert weighs in on something that I don't, you know, you're not necessarily as well a veristin as I'd like to be. Well, that are some good rehab exercises for the Patela. My Patela has been strened and is popping every time I squat and begins to hurt. Yeah. So the Patela is a system-way bone. So you don't really really want to rehab the bone unless it's fractured. But if you have knee pain, then you would want to find ways to tren that do not exacerbate your knee pain and allow you to kind of move it through a range of motion underload and ultimately get back to your previous activity level. So if what you're doing now doesn't let you do that, I think that you would first go to exercise modification. So I'm modifying the tempo, the range of motion, the load, all of those things and maybe even the implement that you use, all the reasonable modifications. We can put the knee rehab template, it's available. Also, if you want very specific advice, would recommend doing a consult with Dr. Derek Miles or Dr. Michael Ray, Dr. Michael Amado, these are the best in the biz and they run our pain rehab service. Would you expect to lose strength running the hypertrophy template for an intermediate level lifter who had just come off a couple runs of the bridge 1.0, trying to figure out what to expect. So a good question. So one, I don't think that using the NOMENclature Beginner Intermediate Advanced lifter is terribly useful because it doesn't affect management or expectations. So when somebody tells me they're an intermediate lifter, I don't know what that means and it doesn't make me change their programming. And it's just similarly if someone says they're advanced and like what does that mean? Yeah, rather I think you could have beginners and then non-beginners. So big enters just meaning somebody who's on previously untrened. So what I expect somebody who has just run the bridge 1.0 a few times to get weaker on the hypertrophy template. And so again, strength is specific to what you're trening. The bridge 1.0 program is much more focused on swap-inch deadlift than the hypertrophy template is going to be that being said given you know my this theoretical arc that I think you're following in your trening program some beginner program and the bridge and the bridge and the hypertrophy program I wouldn't expect to get weaker. I'm probably expecting you get stronger. I actually know some more experienced lifters who've gotten stronger on the hypertrophy template. One guy pulled a PR deadlift and closed to 600 pounds while running the hypertrophy template. So it's my expectation is that you'll do great, you'll do fine. I hope that that is the case, you know, there's the alternative situation where maybe you don't do is great. But at the same time you run an hypertrophy template so I don't know that strength should be your first priority running while running that template. Yeah. During the branch press, right side pushing strength is a lot weaker when grindinGHeavy reps. The right scapula loses correct position, right arm circumference is also one in smaller. Should I do unilateral trening? I don't necessarily think so. I don't know that I'd be grinding out a bunch of reps. It sounds like your technique. Could you some refinement and you know depends how long you've been dealing with this and how long you've been trening. You know if you've only been trening a year or less. I think there's one of the things that works itself out provided you get on the correct program and you know you probably shouldn't be grinding most or any of your reps because it's just not useful. Is there a big improvement from eating 10 fruits and veggies per day versus five? Yeah. So those dependent relationship between plant matter consumption and overall health outcomes. So yes, is there anything inherently wrong? Oh, this is a good setup. Is there anything inherently wrong with rocking for conditioning? It's about the only form of cardio that I find. I can enthusiastically adhere to. That's fine. IMean, I think it does limit the breath of the breath of your conditioning sort of adaptations because you're not engaging in your rowing or cycling or anything else like that. So if you wanted to have a broad base of physical sort of conditioning, you would want to have exposed yourself to more trening, right? More different types of trening rather than just one. But you'll be great at rocking. Jordan just finished week one of the bridge. Is there a reason why day three starts with deadlift instead of squat? Yeah. We want you to deadlift fresh. There's nothing inherently better about starting with the squat first all the time. We're not trying to prioritize the squat over the deadlift. We're trying to prioritize strength in the squat bench and deadlift on the program. Also, can I do the paused bench after the tempo squat? I would not. I would rather have you do the paused bench fresher and the tempo squat with more fatigue. It'll decrease the weight on the tempo squats and increase the weight on the pause bench relative than if you flop if you flip them. Yeah. Hey, what form of conditioning would you recommend for the vast majority of power lifters, treadmill, stationary bike, undue both treadmill, stationary bike, a rower? Yeah. All that sort of stuff sledwork. Yeah. There's not a specific type. I would do a lot of different types. Physiologically, what genetic differences are there between two people with the same sex, anthropometry, body composition, muscle mass and treninGHistory, but different Wilkes scores? So I think the last time I looked at this, there were close to 76 identified genetic loci that are associated with a distinct, like close to 1% or greater, athletic advantage. So, and that was, IMean, I looked at that. That must have been a year ago. I think it was the last time. I actually did a deeper dive in that. It would not surprise me if at this point we're close to 100. And at the end of it all, when we've fully characterized this thing, we're talking about hundreds of different gene loci. So, yeah, a lot of different things, a lot of different things. ACT and 3 gene is like the most well characterized one, but there's again a plethora of them. Whenever I calculate my weight for, let's say, RP-9 from an RP-8, I always overshoot and do RP-10. Always happens with upper body lifts. I resT3 minutes. And by doing something wrong, you could rest longer, you know, three, you know, four minutes. If it's a conditioning thing, depends how long you've been trening, or just take more conservative jumps. We'll be the two strategies to use there. I don't think taking rest periods that are longer than like five minutes are very productive for trening, you know, unless you're really close to a meat and you're trying to simulate meat situations where you're going to have much longer rest periods. But yeah, more taking more conservative jumps, be a good idea. Have you ever done RP-8's off a deficit, so the same range of motion as a deadlift from the floor? Yes, although I do stiff leg of deadlift like that. So typically with RP-8's, the idea for me, it's not a, I'm not trying to mimic the same range of motion. I'm trying to really work the top down while maintaining the normal extension of the spine. And then again, I'm trying to make it a little less fatiguing than pulls from the floor. stiff leg of deadlift's off a deficit and that being a little, you know, about the same amount of fatigues, a regular deadlift if you're using similar RPs and rep ranges, but usually you'll do them for higher reps. When to take creatine for best results, there's no best time. Just as long as you take it every day. I did a video about this. It's on the tubes, on the barbell medicine channel. So I would recommend watching that on a creatine dosing. Hey Jordan thoughts on creatine causinGHair loss. Apparently there was a study with rugby players and maybe you've seen it. Yes, so there was not about creatine and hair loss. It was about creatine and DHT levels. So DHT levels are in general associated like higher DHT levels are in general associated with male pattern baldness. However, DHT levels fluctuate throughout the day. DHT receptor density. So that's target side of activity. Also fluctuate in response to DHT levels. And so just saying that something increase the DHT doesn't necessarily mean it increases male pattern baldness and that study did not actually look at male pattern baldness at all. So right now, we don't really have evidence that this occurs. And further, I think the big thing is if you have male pattern baldness, if it runs in your family, like there's not a lot that you can do to make that better. There are some medications that you can take that may preserve some hair. But as far as actually like and then accelerating it, if you take anabolic endogenic steroids that tends to accelerate male pattern baldness, but creatine, I don't think is quite there yet. So does VO2 max increase benefits, hypertrophy strength in any way other than quicker recovery between sets? Oh, does VO2 max increase hypertrophy or strength in any way other than quicker recovery between sets? Yeah, so outside of improved work capacity, so that you're ready to tren more readily for the next set, you also can handle more trening which you'll actually need because there's a dose dependent relationship between trening volume and strength in hypertrophy. So hey Jordan, thanks for taking the time to do these and answering our questions. You're welcome. How much weight loss would you recommend in a specific period? Currently at 217 stars from 232 would it be beneficial to take a break from a calorie deficit? Yeah, so again, depends on context. If you have a person who's going to be adherent either way, I don't see a reason to take a break from the diet. It's not necessarily going to improve outcomes unless it would improve adherence. If adherence is good, and there and or there's some indication to continue losing weight because the risk of not losing weight is greater than the benefits of maintaining weight than I would encourage for their weight loss. Usually 2.5% body weight per month is kind of the recommendation there. Jordan, my biomechanics professors says deep squats is horrible for your knees and I cringed. They just ask him for citation. He's asking for citation and you can there's a shown field study and a heartman, HAAR, TMAA and and is it 2a's or 2 ends or both? I forget those two recent studies on squat, biomechanics actually like fully rebuts anything your biomechanics professor suggests about this and then I'm kind of like, why is this his opinion? Each Jordan do you recommend adding any conditioning routines? Say once per week for the novices starting linear progression. Yeah, well one I don't recommend starting linear progression. I think the program has many holes in it and it would not and conditioning is one of them would not recommend. I would recommend you start our beginner template. It's much better program for most individuals and includes conditioning and that would be my recommendation for conditioning for untrened individuals. I believe you said that the bench press responds better to higher volume than say the back squat. Nope, I didn't say that. Yeah, there's a dose dependent relationship between trening volume and strength and hypertrophy and this is, you know, universal like as far as absolute amounts. It might be higher for upper body stuff, but I don't necessarily believe that to be true either. Yeah, hey cool glasses. Thanks. Finally out of a rotation and able to catch this live. Gonna enjoy this with some wine. Cheers. Cheers. Top of Chico. Drink a champions. I feel like I should put this out of the frame. So like we're not advertising for them. Thanks for taking a pic with me at Ron Nationals. It was great meeting you guys. We also need those barbell medicine singlets to come back. Yeah, we're uh, it's also man. Good to see you on here. I think we're gonna make some SPD singlets with the barbell medicine logo on them with SPD. They like our stuff and we like their stuff. So it's gonna be great. Jordan and deadlift bench and press are all going up. Okay. Squat has been stuck at 344 for about eight months. Should I just quit lifting and do Pilates instead? Probably not. I'd be one curious to know what programming you're running and you know overall what your squad is looked like in the last eight months from a, you know, a progression or regressions standpoint. Yeah, but if your deadlift is going up and your bench is going up, it seems like you still have some progress left in you. Since older adults are more anoblockly resistant than younger folks. How many grams per kilo body weight of protein do you recommend per day? Yeah, so the recommendations from S bin for healthy aging. I believe is 1.2 to 2 grams per kilogram body weight per day that means that our general recommendation includes older individuals 1.6, oh it's 3.1 grams per kilo per day just depending on you know other context contextual factors like gaining weight losing weight you know some disease that makes them more anoblock resistant or not. But yeah, you know if you get close to that one gram per pound which is 2.2 grams per kilogram body weight per day then you're gonna be okay. I don't know that you need to make it morecomplicated than that. Doc or the bridge 3.0 and strength 1 significantly different. They are yes trying to decide whether or not to buy strength 1, I already own bridge 3. Yeah, so I think you know if you are gonna limit if you're gonna tren 3 days per week and you're interested in driving up your bench press your squat and your deadlift strength 1 is the plan. If you can expand your trening to 4 days a week will do strength 2. Yeah, given that you were just ran the bridge 3.0 is stimulation of the lymphatic system via foam rolling one of the reasons people find a perceived benefit from it. No the foam rolling does not stimulate the lymphatic system because it's you know not you can you know mechanical compression can like move things around but it's not stimulating. Yeah foam rolling does not do anything does not decrease injury risk doesn't decrease pain or or things like doms to late onset muscle soreness doesn't increase risk of injury and it actually can reduce performance and potentially cause harm as well if you have a very aggressive foam rolling session. It makes you feel better IMean that's cool I would do it after trening but I would not recommend people do it to start out with. The main thing is it builds these narratives that are not great like the narrative that builds is that you need to do this sort of thing mechanically to repair yourself restore yourself because you otherwise broke and damaged and are like a car or a machine. When that's not true we are highly adaptable highly resilient you know biological organisms. So is there a general recommendation for how much one should increase trening volume if they decided more volume is necessary? No unfortunately not. Yeah I think you know usually somewhere that 10 to 20 percent range weekly volume tends to be like my sweet spot yeah. Current med student can't really afford to pay for the templates any alternatives IMean the beginner to intermediate range. Well our beginner prescription is free it's free download bridge 1.0 is a free download general strength trening program is free download that being said IMean I was in med school I remember and I think you know one not a drinkin with your with the buddies you know that gets you a template. So yeah can creatine lead to urinating more frequently. No not that I've not that I've seen any data on so. Do you think fasting 24 hours one time per week is an acceptable strategy for calorie reduction? No I don't. Yeah the data on intermittent fasting suggests that people don't lose more weight when they do it. The the attrition rate is a little higher but maybe not statistically significant between so the dropout rate right for people in intermittent fasting arms versus regular calorie restriction arms is similar although maybe a little higher intermittent fasting although again it might not be significant so I don't know if that's really a valid criticism you know on the other hand if someone prefers intermittent fasting that's fine but just doing it one day a week it doesn't fix the the main problem which is dietary patterns is just doing something one day a week it's a might be a decent start for somebody you know to get them in the right headspace to get them more resources more tools or strategies to adhere to a calorie restricted diet but this is not going to be enough for most folks physician prescribed testosterone for short-term fat loss thoughts IMean for that indication nope but you're usually more of the story than that so would reserve judgment but yeah not a great medication for a term fat loss just for that indication alone. On bench my feet tend to slip on my lifting platform any coding to put down on the platform or possibly something on my shoes if you're on wood you know like a pot like a wooded platform might use rubber mats underneath the bench underneath your feet if you put carpet over it that would work do you have any ab work besides what you naturally occurs in a lift we all see you doing regularly yeah do a lot of ab wheel rollouts of these hits else it's stuff like that yeah random topic change but it saw the story about the new oh lenses yeah why did you get A-50 but out of 35 and what Sony body do you shoot with so I have a 35 1.2 sigma art lens I have their 24 1.4 so I have a bunch of primes now I think my prime collection is set for video work I have a a 6587R3 so what should you do I feel like it's hard to tren consistently in medical school do you have any tips yeah IMean I can empathize because you know you're very busy and you may not have the biggest fortunate to have either gym in your garage or a gym that's on campus or close to you or whatever but honestly medical school like especially the preclinical years there's like a substantial amount of time to tren and if you're not going to take the 60 minutes or 90 minutes out of your day to dedicate to your own well-being your own you know health I don't know how to convince you that that's more important than something else I think there's all this pressure also like I can understand like all this pressure you gotta learn everything you have to know everything and whatever but like you know if you're really unhealthy and really unhappy and treninGHelps you know make you healthier and happier then I think you have to engage in trening and yeah also I talked about this on our trening podcasts or medical podcast yeah I don't know I was not something that I struggled with but if it were me and I was struggling with it then I would just I would literally schedule it I'd put it in my phone after whenever my last you know mandatory thing is I have to go to the gym I'd make sure I have my gym close you know on my bag or in my car if I drove to camp and then I would go yeah so I would do Jordan to what extent is I purchased for you possible without a calorie surplus my current thinking is the more trened a person the less this is possible yeah general you know the more trened you become the less it's possible also you know there's a big genetic component here you know maybe 50 60 70% of the hypertrophy potential of persons genetically you know influenced or determined you know guided you know people aren't gonna like that but you know sometimes it do be like that in any event I think that if you're not gaining weight the idea that you're gaining substantial amounts of lean body mass probably not true some people will yeah particularly the less trened they are the more favorable genetic profile is yeah our slower rates of weight loss beneficial from a loose skin perspective not from any objective standpoint that I've seen no what's the link between osteoarthritis and wear and tear so since you're in medical school I'm gonna use the secratic method and direct you to our resources on osteoarthritis but let's just here's a thought experiment for the people at home so osteoarthritis previously was you know and maybe sometimes currently depending on who's given the diagnosis it was referred to as a diagnosis of wear and tear you're wear and tear on the joints which is and then when you talk about obesity people who have a higher rates of osteoarthritis is because you're putting more force more pressure on the joints it's like okay if that's your explanation will why why do obese people also have osteoarthritis in their wrists and fingers and elbows these non-weight-bearing joints this makes sense right so one of the connections between obesity and osteoarthritis that also kind of loosadated these pathways other pathways of osteoarthritis have to do with the dipocines and other sort of inflammatory signaling molecules that ultimately can cause osteoarthritis was the best thing for osteoarthritis usually physical activity yeah like first line treatment and addition education thoughts on fiber supplementation it's reasonable yeah silly musk it's fun I think you know after you're recommending eating more fruits and vegetables that can be reasonable recommendation sure what's the correlation between heavy squats and ascending aortic aneurysm no correlation yeah yeah fortunately ascending aortic aneurysms are rare and ascending the aortic aneurysms endurance squatting are also rare this funny because at a seminar in New York this guy wrote down on his you know intake form like that he had an ascending aortic aneurysm and I was like I went up to him and I was like hey man is this okay like if you've been clear to exercise by your doctor you know he goes well yeah I'm a doctor also you know etc etc and I was like okay as long as you guys know when an agreement we're good to go here Jordan do you think there is an anecdotal correlation between upper body muscle mass and bench press performance I don't just think there's an anecdotal correlation I think there's empirical you know and and also just objective scientific evidence between upper body muscle mass and bench press performance yeah so according to my calculations I've been here for like almost an hour so thank you so much for watchinGHere in Instagram YouTube wherever you're checking this out right 5 p.m. a fast ticking can get high with me as a deal right as a deal right as a bit right

=== FILE: Livestream Q⧸A 10.8.2019： Red Meat, Hypertrophy, Steroids, and MORE! [fxqiG4n1Jk4].txt ===

Hey, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Instagram Live. I am Dr. Jordan Fagamab. It is the 8th of October doing Instagram LivEQ&A, first off some announcements, thing number one, yesterday posted a new trening blog over on the YouTube channel. You're on YouTube right now. You can click back and check that out. It's got a trening. We talked about sad extraction. We talked about cancer and exercise and a bunch of other cool stuff and review some of the user submitted form checks. Other things, newsletter is dropping this weekend before Saturday. So if you're not signed up for a newsletter list, you should do that. An announcement number three, these shirts, there's this color way, there's black, there's also a navy blue. Those are going to be available very shortly. They've already shipped to our distributors, so keep a lookout on the website for that. And then we've got at least one new template dropping this week. So our Titan 2 template, also a couple free downloads for the impending cross-foot open. So a bunch of cool stuff coming up. So be sure to keep checking the website, follow us on Instagram, YouTube, wherever you want to partake in your Barbell Medicine Daily dosing. Now let's see if we get into somEQuestions you guys have submitted by Instagram. I'm recording this for YouTube. We'll be up there later, provide us some good questions, good content, etc. The thing is streaming live on YouTube is problematic. Not only for views because the algorithm, but also just internet bandwidth and yeah, it's not great. Anyway, let's see if we can get somEQuestions from you guys and go from there. Do you have a dog or are you planning on getting a doggo? Yes, so the context for this is I posted a new trial that came out. This was in New England Journal of Medicine, Journal Watch. And they were talking about how dog ownership actually has tenancy towards the lowering cardiovascular and all cause mortality. I don't have a dog mainly because IMovEQuite frequently and places, certain places that I've lived don't allow pets. Although the place I'm in now does allow pets and there's actually a dog park in the building, which is kind of nice. But I don't have a dog yet, but maybe maybe, maybe soon. Freaking Cardinals on subscribe. Yeah, I'm a Cardinals fan. IMean, as far as sports go, the Cardinals are tied to two with the braves. IMean, I feel like every season seems like in the postseason we end up playing the braves. But yeah, from St. Louis, I'm a Cardinals fan. You can also subscribe. Hey, Jordan recently I've been eating a poor diet in terms of not getting a lot of fruits or vegetables. Just after in just after recovering fully from a small flare of colitis, but still feel tired every day. Yeah, so if you actually had colitis and you have a medical condition like ulcerative colitis or something like that, I would definitely work that up with your doctor and then they're associated nutrition professional rather than kind of trying to self-manage this. I don't think that's the play here. But in a more general sense, we do recommend that people try to get 10 servings of fruit and vegetables per day. So that's five and five, six and four or something like that. The idea is one, it's going to automatically make sure that you're taking in a pretty good dose of fiber or your our goal of fiber goals would be 30, 35 grams of fiber per day to the fiber nutrients, the final sterols, and some of these foods, the flavinoids, etc. All these other fruit and vegetable nutrients that are isolated to these types of foods tend to be very health-promoting. We have a pretty good evidence suggesting that consuming fruits and vegetables tend to promote tend to be health-promoting. So would recommend, this is general rule, 10 servings of fruit-vegeted per day. You can split that up however you want to. Would you say that bench press and overhead press is enough for front debt-delta development. So the anterior deltoid, I guess it depends on who you're talking about. If you're talking about a beginner and you're looking and you're talking about muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of the anterior deltoid or the entire deltoid all three muscle bellies or all the muscles of the shoulder girdle, yeah, you could make an argument that bench press and overhead press probably along with a row and something like maybe a vertical pull as well would be enough to develop all of that in a fairly untrened individual. Although there's no real need to restrict them to those movements. They're not any better for developinGHypertrophy in the deltoid or the muscles of the shoulder girdle than other exercises like dumbbell bench or dumbbell press or dip or weighted pushups potentially or incline bench or literally just hammer strength. Again, as long as the range of motion is similar or exercise that have a large range of motion that you can progressively overload with weight and or with weight and trening volume, then really the biggest kind of limiting factor towards hypertrophy is going to be how much volume can you do without incurring too much fatigue. So probably movements that are not compound movements are probably going to have to get into the program for bodybuilding purposes. So thEQuestion was, is the bench press and overhead press enough for front deltoid development? IMean, if we're talking from a hypertrophy standpoint and we're talking long term, the answer is no. You're probably going to have to do some isolation work for that. If you're talking about for strength purposes, then I wouldn't think about individual muscle groups. Yeah, I know that is kind of a longer answer and soundbites are preferred, but I would just try to get out of the mindset of, you know, is this enough for one particular muscle? I don't know, just doesn't seem like a good kind of thought process or useful thought process that I think engaging in regularly. I think I just not do that. Let's see, why do people say red meat is bad for you? Well, because, well, I'll get to that. Okay, here we go. Why do people say red meat is bad for you? Does it actually contribute to increasing LDLs or does eating too many calories and gaining weight from a calorie surplus contribute to high LDLs? Thanks. So a couple different issues here. So there's definitely evidence out there suggesting that high intake of red meat can increase certain rates of cancer. Okay, particularly colorectal cancers, the thing we have the most data on. So you look at the IARC International Association Research International Association for Research on Cancer and compile all the data on the process and unprocessed red meat consumption and incidence of colorectal cancer. And yeah, there seems to be a link there. So the recommendation right now is to limit the number of servings per week to abouT3 servings of red meat per week. And then when you go, when you talk about LDLs, so LDL means low density lipoprotein, lipoprotein is just a lipid and a protein. Lipids cannot really travel through the blood on their own. They need to be carried around by a protein. So that's the protein component of the lipoprotein. So LDL is not cholesterol. LDL is cholesterol that's packed into a protein. And so that's what you measure on a standard lipid test for example. It does eating saturated fat intake, which is generally in a pretty good, it's contained in a pretty good amount in most red meat. Does consuminGHigher intakes of saturated fat tend to increase LDL lipoprotein count. And the answer is yes. We have this in multiple lines of evidence. So metabolic word studies were they actually admit people to either research facility or hospital and keep them under locking key and feed them all the certain things. Okay, increasing dietary saturated fat intake above a certain level tends to promote increase number of LDL. And then further when you replace saturated fat intake with things like monotentrated fats, polyensaturated fats, whole grain foods, fruits and veg, or protein, you tend to get a drop in LDL. And LDL is associated high LDLs, the single best predictor we have from a lipid panel as far as predicting ASCVD, which means aploscerotic cardiovascular disease, which includes things like heart attack, stroke, peripheral artery disease, etc. So yeah, hopefully that answered some of all your questions. And if the take home is, should you eat all this unlimited ounce of red meat, the answer that is no. And so diets like the carnivore diet and some iterations of the ketogenic diet tend to be less, a tend to have some risk associated with them and depends on the potential benefits somebody's getting from that diet. So weight loss, yes, can affect weight loss and weight gain can affect your total your cholesterol panel. But you know, I would not try to think about that independent of red meat intake when you're thinking about constructing dietary patterns that are health promoting. And the other thing is, I don't think that the fact that I'm not a doctor is often doing raw national's, nope. And will you ever do another raw national's of future? IMean, maybe. Yeah, I just don't really like coaching and lifting the same weekend. Not really fun for me. And yeah, I don't think that I want to at this point participate in the USAPL for now. Doesn't mean forever, but for now. What's a good belt style or brand preference? Thanks for doing these. Yeah, I don't really have a belt preference, like far as brand goes. I have a best belts, which is made by Dean Best. I think it's fine. Pioneer belts also tend to make a good product. Inzer has got a ready made belt. If you get just a black color, then you can actually get it shipped to you within a reasonable amount of time. Everything else is going to take you a long time. The SPD lever belt is very expensive, but also very good. I just think a four inch single prong belt. It's 13 millimeters thick. It tends to be the default size rather that I recommend and for most folks. I think getting it from Pioneer or Best Belt reasonable choice there. Thoughts on Mad Cal, 5x5 program. Yeah, I don't think it's very good. So it was good in the period of the internet where free Trening resources were limited. But now there's a bunch of free stuff on the internet. There's a lot of limitations. There are a lot of limitations to the Mad Cal program. If you like it, that's great. But my opinion, I wouldn't advise somebody to run that. No. How to target different parts of the thighs for hypertrophy? Well, I assume you just mean quadriceps versus hamstrings because you're not really able to target different areas of thEQuadricep versus different areas of the hamstring. Unless you're talking about not targeting the rectus femurus muscle, which is a quadricep muscle that crosses both the hip and the knee joint. And tends to not get fully activated until there's a substantial amount of fatigue in thEQuadriceps already. So one trening thEQuadz, knee extension, hip flexion, mostly knee extension, going to be the big one and then trening knee flexion. Some hip extension is going to tren the hamstrings. What if an exercise is to choose from? So it takes me at least 20 minutes to get through an exercise. Warm up in the work sets is that too long. I spent at least 2 hours in the gym, want to cut down. IMean, 20 minutes to get through an exercise is not long. If you're doing 3 exercises each time, that's an hour. So I'd want to know why it's taking you 2 hours then to get it in. If it takes you 20 minutes to get through an exercise, the warm up in the work sets. That's what I'd want to know. Yep. It possible to start steadily gaining weight without a significant change in diet. IMean, yeah, if you eat the exact same thing, then you become much less active. You could start gaining weight. That happens, or potentially if you start medication, that promotes weight gain, particularly with the water retention. Yeah, all sorts of things can conspire or can found. You're sort of weight variable depending on what's going on. That's worse. Smoking or obesity. I don't know that I could say that one is worse. IMean, obesity definitely has its hands in more chronic diseases and you could make an argument that it's the healthcare costs and thEQuality of life suffering from being obese. Maybe it's more substantial than smoking, but smoking is still pretty bad. You prefer neither of those things to affect somebody. Our speed reps on the main lifts beneficial. Example 10 sets of 3 with the lightweight and under a minute rest. IMean, if you want to get better at producing force at high velocity, so high velocity force production, sure. You would want to tren that via high velocity trening, which you have to do it a lightweight. It doesn't really help with low velocity force production, which are heavy, that's heavy, heavy weight lifting. Heavy heavy strength trening. Then doing it on a one minute rest doesn't mean anything. All it's doing is limiting your ability to actually produce high velocity force production. So it turns to be it tends to be in a little more conditioning. And then may actually be able to stimulate a little bit of, excuse me, hypertrophy via the fatigue that's generated through that the artificially short rest periods, whereas it wouldn't if you had a longer rest period and you were just squatting 55% for doubles or triples for 10 sets. Probably not a biGHypertrophy stimulus there unless you get fatigued enough by the end of those by doing them every minute on the minute that you're actually getting substantial motor unit recruitment. What kind of uses substitute for a pit shark or belt squat? You're going to need a loading pin and a dip belt. You can do that and stand on boxes and do a belt squat like that. You could also have a landmine attachment where you have a barbell jammed in the landmine and then use your dip belt on one end of that and you do it like that. There's also a way I guess you could do it theoretically on like something with like a low pulley set up where you can stand above it and hook a dip belt to that. Those would all work. Yeah. Have you ever tested how many words you can type in a minute? I'm tempted to do it but I'm not going to do it because I don't want to waste everybody's time for a minute. Coming to the Miami seminar stoked very cool. Yeah, we're selling out. So upcoming educational opportunities via barbell medicine. So our Boston, pain and rehab seminar sold out. We have, I think, two spots left are Portland seminar, our regular barbell medicine seminar with Dr. Barackie and I December wall off January will be in Reno for pain and rehab seminar with Dr. Michael Ray and Dr. Derek Miles. I'll be in Reno with those cats and then we'll be in Miami as well Dr. Barackie, Leah, Tom, Allen, the whole crew will be down at Steffi Cohen's gym, hybrid performance in Miami. The first weekend of January. So still some spots open for that. So get signed up today. Otherwise you can miss your spot. A close grip bench is stronger than my competition bench, which has a wider grip, is this unusual? Yes. Do you recommend using a wider grip bench for long term investment as most people say it uses more chest musketeer? Well, most people will be wrong. It doesn't use more chest musketeer, more chest musketeer. In fact, when you look at studies on actual muscle recruitment with different grips, there's almost no difference in any grip provided the range of motion is the same. So that's close grip versus wide grip versus thumbs from the smooth or something like that. I think through the three conditions that were tested under similar relative intensities. So it sounds like your competition bench is either you've newly switched your grip to a wider grip because somebody told you that you should and it's not yet trened compared to your close grip bench or your wide grip, your competition bench is just too wide for your current strength and current trening development. So yeah, it just depends what you want. If you're not going to compete, it immediately doesn't matter. You can play around with it if you want, but I don't think necessarily that having a wider grip bench necessarily correlates to a higher bench potential. Yeah, I don't see that you see just such a huge inter-individual variation. And for more on that, I talk about this in the Bench prescription video that we made with Alan Thrall. It's available on our channel. Yeah, check it out. Just started a week five of the legacy 12-week strength template and we'll surprise to see 5-3-0 tempo squats are in for just one week. Yeah, it's just in there for the pivot week. Yep. Is there any chance of you and Austin being guests on the Joe Rogan show? IMean, I guess it's possible, but it's not like Joe's called the stuff and we're just turninGHim down. So I think that how this works is Joe has to invite you on a show. And I don't know that he's going to invite us. Recently after squat days, when I stand up for my desk, my VMOs cramp up really bad. Being, barbell medicine stands is that this is a sign of not recovering well. Oh, there's a lot to unpack here. So one, the VMO stands for the Vassus Medialis Obliques. The, this was, this is a made up muscle. It doesn't actually exist based on any criteria we have anatomically. This was made up by a physical therapist in the 60s looking aT4 recently amputated legs. They found that there were fibers at the end of the Vassus Medialis, which is one of the muscles of thEQuadriceps. They found that the distal end of it right by the knee had these Oblique running fibers and they called it the VMO. Actually later, petitioned Namananatamica, which at the time was responsible for naming all these muscles. They petitioned that group to actually say that there was a VLO as well. So they were trying to not only add a muscle to the sort of dictionary of muscles and the VMO, they were also going to add the VLO and then they wanted to rename thEQuadriceps to the sexist ups because now there are six heads anyway. None of that worked. The VMO is not a real muscle. Cramps generally, I guess you could maybe call it a sign of not recovering well because it just means that fatigue was relatively high unless there's some medical condition, but most of the most folks keep cramping is just a little bit too much fatigue. Doesn't mean anything if it goes away. If it just happens when you stand up from your desk and then it goes away. It just could be positional. I don't know, wouldn't really worry about it. Jordan, popular question on YouTube currently. What do you think is harder bodybuilding or powerlifting? I don't know. I've never done bodybuilding, never competed in a bodybuilding show. So I don't think that I can actually say which one is harder. Both of them are the problems and the suffering and the difficulty. These are all champagne problems. If you can actually afford to engage in this recreational pursuit of strength or muscle size, then doing okay. You're doing okay in this world. I probably wouldn't try to say one is harder than the other one is more suffering than the other. It's lifting weights. Jordan, what does the evidence say on the efficacy of regular mouthwash use as well as flossing? Thanks in advance. Yeah, I don't know. That's dental stuff and dentistry. The evidence-based model for dentistry is slowly emerging but it's far behind the medical evidence-based medicine sort of movement. So yeah, I'm not sure. Discarnations compressing nerves can fully heal. Indeed they can. Yeah. That's like a Googleful thing. You just Google that and you're like, yep, pops up. Cool. Hey, Jordan. I love your stuff. Thanks buddy. It has all been very informative and helpful for my growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in moving weight efficiently. Thanks, man. Thank you. Thanks for saying that. Yeah, I gas up one of your friends. You know, just hype them up. Call them up and say, hey, you're doing great. IMiss you. I like you. Something like that. It's positive positive vibes. That'd be good. Right. Let's see. Jordan just finished the high-purchase for template yesterday. Going back to strength week one tomorrow pulled 405 or set a seven nice man. Cool program. Yeah. Awesome, brand and nice. Can leg press and RDL replace the squat and deadlift if the only goal is high-purchary. Yeah, sure can. Sure can. I would actually argue that the RDL is probably better for high-purchary the hamstrings and potentially even glutes than the deadlift. IMean, really again, which you're looking for is range of motion. The ability to progressively overload via adding weight and reps volume being more important here than absolute intensity. And then the ability to do a bunch of reps and sets without getting too fatigued. So you think about like, how, you know, what could you do more of in a given week or a given session without incurring way too much fatigue that would overwhelm the system and compromise your high-purchase response to the trening. Leg press is going to be better in a squat RDL. Since it's a little lighter, you know, but you still have a really long range of motion range of motion is very similar, especially for the hamstrings and glutes and erectors. It's probably a better choice from a fatigue standpoint, although, you know, I could argue it's not that much different, but it may be a little bit, maybe a little bit better. And then people really get worked up about what you can use more weight on the squat. Well, not really than a leg press, but, you know, then a leg extensions, like, a little shore, but thEQuestion isn't how much absolute weight can you use? ThEQuestion is how much motor unit recruitment can you get? And we know that, you know, doing sets of, you can get the same amount of motor unit recruitment doing sets of five and sets of 30. You know, just it, as long as you're willing to go near to the near failure, thEQuestion isn't, you know, how much motor, you know, recruitment can you get by the second rep of a set. Question is how much total motor unit recruitment did you get at the end of a whole set? How many reps were stimulating the sort of muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? And then how many of those sets can you do in a given week and to give a session? So anyway, I think people try to overly complicate this high-purchasing thing, and really what you need to do is pick exercises that have a big range of motion can be loaded or done for enough reps that generate that stimulate motor unit recruitment and then that you can do enough volume of them to continue to drive high-purchreat for you over time. And I don't know if having an allegiance to a particular movement is a great way to be a great way to think about high-purchreat. Hey, Jordan is doing leg extension machine, bad for your knees. Nope. I don't know things that are bad for your knees except for maybe acute trauma at high-velocity, an, you know, acute uncontrolled movement at high-velocity might be bad for your knees or like other people hitting it. But yeah, people are like, oh, it's open chain and there's this long moment arm on the knee. It's like, so what? Yeah, tissues adapt. People get better. They're able to tolerate more stuff. Is there evidence to show a salt craving is relevant to actual hydration slash electrolyte imbalance? So those arecompletely different things. Hydration and electrolyte imbalance, although sometimes they happen. Same time. Gen general people, the thirst response to exercise or sweating in an active environment tends to be a little delayed. And then as far as craving salt, most individuals won't have a conscious sort of, you know, hey, I'm craving salty things. Most people won't. But and that's because we tend to consume enough sodium in our diet. And in general, you can't make yourself significantly hyponetremic, low-low sodium in a way that's clinically meaningful from exercising or competition unless you're doing something fairly extreme or you've suffered like heat stroke or heat-related illness. And, you know, that's then again, one of the things you would you look for is potentially a hydration issue, salt, salt issue. But we're talking about people doing two days, three days trening or team-based sports and then doing something silly like drinking, you know, 10 gallons of free water or a gatorade or something like that to in order to get rehydrated. That those sort of things would be the real reasons why you get this sort of hyponetremia, this low salt level that's actually clinically meaningful and meaning that can cause symptoms potentially bad outcomes. Most people after the exercise are hyponetremic. It's just this, you know, thing that happens but it's not clinically significant. It doesn't do anything and it resolves on its own when we eat food. And actually the recommendation is to add sodium to both pre-imposed workout meals. That being said, most people probably enough dietary sodium anyway, it's probably not a big deal. Yeah. How would you explain to a friend why a multivitamin is not beneficial? It's a good question. I probably wouldn't actually explain to them that it's not beneficial unless they ask me because otherwise I'm just wasting my breath. Yeah, multivitamin is not associated with reduced mortality or morbidity that's diseases. If anything, it's related, particularly high doses of antioxidants, high doses of other vitamins are associated with bad outcomes like increased rates of cancer. For example, increase all cost mortality risk. So no benefit to show no evidence really to show benefit outside of patients who need to take a multivitamin due to either a problem absorbing vitamins or or some sort of very, very restricted diet and where their doctor would be prescribing them, sort of multivitamin Supplementation. So these are people who have like gastric bypass or who've had like a part of their ilium removed or other parts of the GI tract operated on and then they might have to take supplement or you know people who have like cystic fibrosis or other issues with a malabsorption as a concern or just superscripted diet. Those are the patients that get prescribed multivitamin's you know among others but just your general you know otherwise healthy person you have multivitamin's don't do anything. It's waste your money. Any recommendations on resistance trening focus for boxers. How does muscle fibrotypes play into resistance trening goals for athletes like this? Muscle fibrotypes are mostly genetically predetermined. You can get some shifting within different fibrotypes type 1 and type 2. They don't go from type 1 to type 2 but in the type 2 muscle fibers you can get some switching from high velocity force producing muscle fibers to low velocity force producing fibers and back and forth depending on trening. So yeah just for boxers I think you know conditioning would be obviously be a focus and then doing it significantly more high velocity strength work than I would somebody who is not involved in explosive sport like that. Sure. Does your body get accustomed to a lower calorie diet meaning you start to burn less and less fat? Well as you lose weight, sure. Yeah you're your uh based on metabolic rate goes down, total daily energy expenditure goes down. Some evidence suggesting that part of your needs non exercise aerobic thermogenesis basically just calories you burn from non formal exercise you tend to move around a little bit less but in general in general this doesn't seem to preclude weight loss in a calorie when people are actually in a calorie deficit. You know people tend to continuously lose weight under controlled sort of situations. I think said weight loss can be difficult for sure. How would you approach your client if they were worried about one leg being significantly stronger than the other? Yeah no that's a good question. I think it would just depend you'd want to get more information. So one you'd want to know why they're concerned about it how they did they assess this because there are things like you know hamstrings asymmetry this this that do predict a higher risk of certain injuries in certain team sports particularly soccer for example and so in that how you would assess that is effectively doing you know one leg up to like a set of eight repetitions at RP eight or nine or something like that on one leg and then do it on the other leg and see oh is there an asymmetry and if it's above a certain level then maybe that confers an increased risk in soccer but in Bartel trening probably not. That being said what you're gonna find is uh is that that tends to be eliminated via resistance trening period meaning that the weak side when you're doing these biolateral exercises when you're doing the the the the the the weak musclEQuote unquote tends to get a little bit greater stimulus than the stronger muscle you know provided technique and range of motion are are are relatively similar from rep to rep and that and then on top of that I think that including unilateral work can be useful too I don't know that I would just focus on all bilateral stuff I don't see a good reason for that so uh I think between you know just having that conversation and and and and maybe seeing if you need to take a step further but the final word on this is we're all asymmetrical every one of those asymmetrical no one has has equal strength side side or antagonist agonist and and that's some of that is by you know is is been selected for you know over over millennia but that's another podcast anyone in particular you're excited to see compete at Ron Ashinals sure Leo Lutz I'm excited to see her lift and go out and smash some PRs Claire Claire's eyes she's gonna go out in the 72 kilo prime time class and smash some PRs that to be cool Sam Calhoun our Austin's client she's gonna go out in 63 kilo prime time along with Lorraine Baraki Austin's wife they're gonna both be in prime time I'm really excited to see how they do anybody else that I am excited to watch yeah I don't know probably not what medical school was medical school worthwhile to you would you have chosen a different route yet no I thought medical school was fine for me I think the only thing I would have done differently IMean I got a master's degree in clinical anatomy and physiology prior to going medical school which I actually found the education to be super valuable and the skills learned in the knowledge the front of knowledge like great and and honestly help refine my study technique allowed me to do so well in medical school so from like actual like skill development I thought it was great but the actual how did that trensfer to helping me get in a medical school was not that great mainly because it's hard to evaluate like how rigorous a master's program is compared to more undergraduate coursework so I think it would have made me morecompetitive applicant to do the same number of additional credit hours in undergraduate science education help bring my GPA up make myself morecompetitive than the actual master's program I did although the skills and fund of knowledge gained from doing the master's program I think was superior to anything I could have done undergraduate wise but yeah medical school was great I just it would have been nicer to have a better I guess pick of which medical schools that I wanted to go to but hey it all worked out I'm at Austin and his wife and a couple other good friends from medical school that was you know obviously been worthwhile and so maybe it all supposed to work out like this would you review a snatch or clen and jerk video for a future trening vlog maybe yeah I'm not putting it I'm not saying no thoughts on strong lift 5 by 5 similar to starting strength 5 by 5 based on redgpark starting strength is not 5 by 5 is 3 by 5 and strong lift 5 by 5 actually met Medi in London I think you know if you need a place to start for your resistance trening it's fine out for you do our beginner template the beginner prescriptions are free version we think that's how people should start trening and also sort of reading that text a lot gives people a better lay of the land for like why they're doing this what's the what the next steps are etc but you know I'm not going to ever dissuade somebody from getting into resistance trening so will intermittent fasting interfere with strength improvement maybe yeah IMean we don't really have good long-term data on this the what you'd really want to know is does intermittent fasting actually do anything unique does it for instance make people lose more weight does it have a health promoting effect that a similar calorie level diet where people don't intermittently fast does is there any unique benefit to intermittent fasting the answer that is no yeah to recent meta analysis on this no benefits to is this to intermittent fasting over a regular diet if you prefer it that's cool helps keep you adherent to some sort of diet that's great but it doesn't improve health and any it reduces any sort of disease compared to a similar diet where you don't intermittently fast and it's certainly not going to make people stronger so I think if I was hedging my bets I probably wouldn't recommend intermittent fasting if getting super strong is important to you but on the other hand I'm not going to tell you that it's going to handle your gains I just unless it's helping unless it's the only way to get to keep you adherent to your diet I probably wouldn't recommend it general hey Jordan just wanted to thank you and the bar medicine team today I just hit a four-play deadlift hey that's awesome congratulations have you followed sornux squattober squatting almost every day seems like a fun and community event but adapting to the volume would be interesting I have not followed it because I have a power of any meat yeah I feel in a squat every day I think Matt Perry meant squat every day is the book treat actually some pretty good in uh uh read on coaching principles but I would not recommend people who are only squatting two or three days a week to just ramp up immediately to squat in every day just because it's October I want to increase my low bar squat and quad high perch fee would you choose high bar or front squats as a supplemental accessory exercise I'd probably just low bar squat some more IMean you could pick high bar front squat high bar probably is a little more trensference to excuse me low bar squats but they all work thEQuadrips you know as long as you're going in your failure as far as uh uh developing your low bar squat low bar doing more low bar works probably gonna be the best move there but this all depends on the individual course had a great lecture med school about preventing sarcopenia and kexia in med school today teacher said we need to get people to tren pretty stoked wasn't expecting that at this point in time yeah it's true yes sarcopenia uh and kexia should be noted are not the same thing sarcopenia is a loss of muscle tissue literally meaning a poverty of flesh and then kexia is uh and in sarcopena usually it's a loss of muscle but you can actually preserve or even increase the amount of body fat so there's also this term sarcopenica obesity whereas kexia on the other hand is this global loss of both fat and muscle it's a little bit different there's also other symptoms associated with the kexia so is it true that there's a maximum amount of protein that your body can utilize in one meal? no your body has excessive resources that it will allow it to use keep trensform and et cetera it convert uh dietary protein into you know muscle tissue energy stuff like that do you still overhead press I have not overed pressed in five or six weeks I think yeah cuz I'm doing this powerlifting meat so what's wider the English channel or my T's hips that's close we're gonna have you know what we'll have to measure I'll when I see him at uh at Ron Ashtonals I'll I'll break out the tape measure but IMight have to bring another one tape it together what is the best way to squat for a meat low or high bar either you know some people will be able to move more weight a low bar uh I hesitate to even say the majority because just really depends on the person um in fact obviously there's some very very strong squatters squat high bar in powerlifting and then in Olympic lifting who tend to actually be even stronger um squatting for for a given at a given body weight they almost universally do high bar squats but you know you could argue about their anthropometry so depends on the person's anthropometry so if you have a meat coming up and you've only been squattinGHigh bar what I switched low bar from the meat probably not unless you've had extensive history trening low bar on the other hand if you've been trening low bar and you have me coming up I probably wouldn't switch the high bar for the you know you better at low bar if uh you don't have a meat coming up and you want to sign up for one then you know I don't know that I would change unless you have a significant amount of time 12 weeks 16 weeks uh so to work this out but I would try to pick one that you want to uh kind of use as your priority squat and that getting stronger in that movement is more more important to you if you have this idea of doing a meat and in the near future thoughts on laser light treatment as a form or treatment or plantar a fasciitis new yeah there's the reason why they're like hundreds of different treatments for plantar fasciitis because none of them work we don't really know why this is happening so yeah would not recommend that for someone returning from a herniated disc injury would leg press aggravate that if the back was kept neutral uh no not necessarily um neither would squatting and even if the back is not kept neutral yeah IMean a lot of this is depending on your thought process your your expectations your previous experiences your education level on this all of these things can influence how you actually respond to exercise so we wouldn't necessarily expect you to have pain with any of those movements but you might even if your back is uh perfectly neutral because that doesn't really correlate to the pain experience um so if you're trying to come back and you want to very specific advice I would recommend consulting our pain rehab specialist they do this every day the best on the industry I'm out of to say in that I'm really glad they decided to link up with us but these guys are great so doctor Ray and doctor Miles that this is just what they do so also why do the doctors charge for testosterone ranges not account for age they do yeah yeah there are published norms for free and total Testosterone based on based on different age demographics so just wearing that shirt for the fifth day in the road well this is to be fair this is a new shirt like this has never been worn before but am I wearing the same logo yes yes I am what kind of trening plan is ideal for a client who wants weight loss loves cardio but also enjoys weightlifting what would you program for them uh weight loft weightlifting cardio and a calorie deficit IMean yeah it would just depend on how what sort of resources they have available to them if you mean Olympic weightlifting you know then I'd probably have them do Olympic weightlifting most days that they tren with weights probably all days uh try to get in the lift weights three days a week and I'd have them do a push a pole in a press and the pole usually would be some sort of Olympic lift maybe one day I did have them deadlift instead of even like a clener snatch variant but if you're not talking about Olympic weightlifting then yeah IMean I think two or three days a week resistance trening full body workouts do conditioning that would that they can be adhered to and they prefer and calorie deficit and how do you go about planning your jumps for warm-ups attempts at a meat saw your post where you jumped 6700 plus but ideally you would hit 675 in between I don't know how close to get on the last warm-up yeah it's all personal preference so like my my dead lifts I'm probably gonna open it 305 672 and then jump to 730 so like that 727 whatever that is 7-7-732 whatever and then 748 I think third that's the plan but last warm-up prior to 672 probably be 600 IMean and I probably just go 135 to 25 35 15 40 500 500 600 as my warm-up just because I'm comfortable doing that salt personal preference hey Jordan is anabolic androgenic anabolic steroid induced hypogunitism reversible after short-term use sometimes yeah also do test levels return to their previous normal sometimes yeah again I know that you've asked multiplEQuestions about anabolic androgenic steroid use on previous lives and my advice to you is to not use them not because I'm anti anabolic I think there's a ton of place for those things depending on risk benefits but for you yeah the risks are far outweigh the benefits as far as I can tell and you know pay to call you up but that's just my take on it right now and so again just for the this conversation for a second you know you think about certain circuitine patients you know the recommendation the guideline for an Allen circuitine do not necessarily recommend anabolic but in some cases they may be you know beneficial compared to their inherent risk certain professional sports or other high incentive where there's a great incentive to actually perform a certain level you know yeah the benefits might outweigh the potential risks provided someone actually knows the risk and I you know again having looked at your profile a little bit I just don't think that's that's for you and you know you're not all you can make your own decisions but I think that I would probably think twice about this and then I will also just inside probably not ask any morEQuestions about this on the live mainly just because the public perception of of them it's just not in a place where I think I want to talk about them a lot although we probably will do a podcast on the stuff on the future just because people keep asking us but I think I'd like to concentrate all that in one one little location what is the most amount you should adjust your macros in terms of grams of protein carbohydrates fat how often should you change it if you are at an ideal bodyweight and body fat but want to gain strength yeah a lot of questions here so there's no max or minimal amount that you would adjust grams of protein carbs fat in an isocoloric or equal calorie situation and then again if you are at the ideal bodyweight and body fat I don't know that you need to you know adjust your macros in order to gain strength that's probably probably not true unless you're protein intake was significantly compromised and so we know that you know is anywhere between 1.4 to 1.6 grams per kilo body weight of protein per day in folks who are either gaining weight or maintaining weight can yield optimal sort of resistance trening outcomes expect a high-purchase feed strength so our recommendation usually is towards the upper end 1.6 grams per kilo bodyweight per day protein start there if you prefer more protein than that that's fine but that's the only thing I feel kind of strongly about respect to actual macro recommendations in an isocoloric situation. See is it normal that myorep movements take a long time to go up and wait? I don't know just depends how many reps you're trying to do I was able you know my experience has been able to either add weight or reps each week when I when I incorporate them in my trening so that's why I plan on doing. Dox you ever plan to practice medicine? Probably not as my only occupation know yeah I don't think so yeah I think you know obviously there's a need for people in the trenches to practice medicine and take care of patients but I think that the calling by our medicine and public health is probably a little bit more rewarding for me and that's probably we're all spending the bulk of my time yeah. Would you modify your trening at high altitude? No can confirm when it went to Colorado high altitude I did not modify my trening. Is there any evidence to suggest? So usually when questions start out there? The answer is yes but is it strong evidence? It's useful evidence but alright. Is there any evidence to suggest that reducing body fat has a beneficial effect on inflammatory conditions such as Xima or rheumatoid arthritis if one were near the cutoff for a waste or conference? Yes so yeah if you're obese and you have too much out of post tissue that's definition of obesity then yes reducing body fat can improve patient reported out patient reported outcomes in both of those conditions so yes to that particular question. What are your top five supplements for power lifters over 40 years of age? Yes so these are no different than my recommended supplements for people for lifters at adult lifters at any age because being over 40 doesn't mean your old or special population. So a whey protein or other protein supplement depending on your dietary patterns, creatine monohydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydratehydrate. I would also recommend that people take a bad alinean recommend that people maybe consider taking caffeine prior to a workout so we did way we did or protein we did creatine we did bad alinean we did caffeine and then the only other you know thing that you might find to be beneficial would be like AASitrally malade IMean there's a bunch of other stuff that's going to be that you know you have a slight benefit but you know really those those firsT4 even would be the ones that I think I would recommend mostly yeah if you got a puppy which kind would you choose also high you're awesome thanks Sarah yeah I think I would get like a mini husky yeah because the cute my dad trying to get me a disdoodle things like 90 pounds is a horse it's too big it's too big absolutely wrecked my apartment so yeah maybe a little a little husky yeah let's see I find I can hook grip way more than I can deadlift for aromasingle okay but it rips up my thumbs after a few poles then I go to straps for rep work any issues with this IMean I don't know how well your grip is trened I'd want to know what you're pullinGHave you considered using aromasingle layer of athletic tape on your thumb that's probably what I would start doing so you can again just develop your grip because at some point you're going to need that grip strength right would you recommend vitamin D supplementation if blood work shows low vitamin D in general that is the the treatment so yes but it depends on how low it is that because that helps determine the dosing and what agents are recommended either vitamin D 2 or D 3 and then you should probably check your vitamin D levels in six eight weeks to make sure that you're replenishing your enough I wouldn't recommend to people just take vitamin D what supplemental squat would you recommend for someone who struggles to go below parallel asking for myself uh pause squats pin squats something like that yeah one of those two probably any thoughts on the new Sony cameras or lenses any interest or not really into it well I have two Sony cameras got a a 6500 that's this camera and then I've got my a7R3 floating around here somewhere so the a7R4 came out and the new a was it 7172 I don't know yeah an a9 2 a9 mark 2 yeah I don't know I'm kind of bummed with the stuff that Sony's come out with in the last year I like their product they're still I think leaders in the mirrorless camera world they've got the best specs for sure but we're all waiting for this you know new camera to drop that's got the just 4k 60 frames per second and 10 bit out and you know all the other stuff but that right now they've got the best of both worlds for photography and videography and their auto focuses you know maybe the best in in class so I already got two Sony's I don't think I'm gonna upgrade until something new comes out yeah can following a vegan diet be just as good as one of lots of animal protein if calorie needs are met and protein intake as well beyond recommendation for those extreme tren yes but I would make the caveat you don't they don't necessarily need a higher protein intake the data shows it get 1.6 grams per kilo body weight of protein per day even in vegan protein can be you know can can yield optimal results from a trening plan so I think that you know and that's for people in a weight gain or or maintenance state so if you were losing weight I'd probably jack that up a little bit but that'd be the same advice for for individuals eating animal products yeah advice on choosing a medical specialty yeah I think you know obviously your rotations are gonna be useful as far as like figuring out like what I want to do this day in and day out because you're gonna see the you know daily grind of a particular medical specialty and then I think that I would try to do some electives in one or two of the fields that that you think that you're interested in but the first thing is you got to figure out if you want to do medicine and surgery and after that this this becomes a little clearer because then you start figuring out like all right you know what kind of surgery what I want to do or in medicine do I want to treat only adults or do I want to treat adult and kids you know it's you're able to refine so excited to see you deadless 750 you two man it'll be 748 but in in my heart I'll think it's 750 oh why do myself I believe hate your hat cubs fan sucks twice fair enough fair enough man Jordan there's a dude at my gym who works out at the same time and I've never said hi and now it's been a year it's too awkward to do now should I change gyms that's weird because there was a guy earlier in this live chat it was like there's a dude at my gym who works out at the same time is me he looks like he lifts but he never said hi I want to say hi but it would be too awkward now should I change gyms I think you just got to do the the bro thing and you know asking for a spot or something like that and then strike up conversation there you go just people connecting people it's what I'm doinGHere evening dock would love your thoughts on this saw a trening video of LeBron Chris Paul and Carmelo Anthony these are all NBA players for the the unaware IMyself am a cultured individual let's see they were all working with their trener and the trener had them all doing similar RDS do similar RDS have a trensfer to vertical probably minimal trensfer to vertical jump test IMean the best thing we have for the trensfer to a vertical jump test would be jumping bounding exercises then you'd talk about you know fairly light half squats and quarter squats where people can actually move the way quickly high velocity and but yeah does the sumo debt RDL does that recruit posterior chain muscles sure it's a way to tren the glutes and hamstrings and adductors I think it's fine I don't know why you'd have them do sumo versus regular but you know in a basketball player I don't know that it matters either yeah Jordan long time to see recommended program after power lifting too you could do power lifting 3 yeah it's one thing to do you could also go to like a poetry plan I purchased we two and then jump back to the power lifting 2 or a strength general strength conditioning and then pop back to power lifting 2 something like that how good are MRAPS sets and predicting 1RM after more than 5 reps more than if it really if they're more than 3 reps probably not that great but yeah maybe 5 reps is kind of really where the trailing off tends to happen you know as far as like accuracy is very physiologically optimal time of the day to tren so actually kind of looked in this into this and this chronobiology or chrono trening and it appears no you look at some of the studies done on this people tend to perform best 7-8 hours ish after waking up but that's generally their self reported exercise time anyway and untrened populations doesn't tend to be a reliable trensfer there so let's see what lenses I'll use into the track the other day this guy 70 to 200 f28 this big old guy hands are going numb while sleeping at night don't bother me much during day while trening going to try splintine at night concern or not really that sounds like you know comment things being common you think about carpal tunnel and so try this once your doctor and make sure it's evaluated you're not missing anything but yeah that would be the first thing comes to mind especially if it's bilateral so the splintine can help and it goes away yeah if thinking it's a carpal tunnel but nothing gym related that you need to worry about unless you end up having surgery on it all right i've been here for an hour we got 30 seconds left so i'm gonna do some announcements one check out the vlog from yesterday it's over on youtube too thank you guys so much for watching please share this one of your friends doesn't follow me don't think follows me helps grow borrow a message community got's great and uh... thing three if you haven't signed up for newsletter it's dropping this friday so sign up for that get your latest borrow minutes and stuff in your inbox she got a good

=== FILE: Livestream Q⧸A 11.18.2019 Vegan diets, Hypertrophy, Being Undertrained, and MORE! [ZirMi_JpRTo].txt ===

I welcome back to Instagram Live. I'm Dr. George Fagman with Barbol Medicine. I was saying, so I lose brain cells when you don't close long. I lose brain cells when I don't close long. If doing leg extension machine bad for your needs, nope. I'm Dr. George Fagman with Barbol Medicine. Welcome back to Instagram Live. We're YouTube. If you're watching this in the future, I'm Dr. George Fagman of Barbol Medicine. It is Monday, November 18th. We're doing Instagram Live. I'm trying to get in the habit of doing these more often. And then subsequently posting them on YouTube if there's good stuff there. So as you know, black Friday's coming. We've got some black Friday deals that you guys and gals are going to like. So be able to look out for information about that. If you're subscribed to our newsletter, you're going to get first dibs on that. If you're not subscribed to our newsletter, you should do that. Because we have a spicy new newsletter going out. I believe it's scheduled to send tomorrow. Also have some new content coming up with Alan Flanagan on our podcast. And then in a long form article that I wrote about the science of Red Meat intake. What we're doinGHere is a Q&A question and answer. So use them at questions. Ideally, I'll try to answer them to the best of my ability. And we'll just have a conversation. All right. We're going to try to find somEQuestions. So I can provide some answers. Oh, last announcement. If you're really hankering for some new Barbol Medicine gear, we've got the baseball teas, RN stock, the competition teas, RN stock and our singlets are on pre order right now, SPD and Bartle Medicine partnered up together to bring you some sweet, sweet Barbol Medicine singlets which are indeed IPF and USAPL legal. Because yeah, every year I pay to make sure that our logo is approved. So check those things out over on the website. All right, back to thEQuestions. Let's go. Sub-dude house trening going. So yeah, actually, this probably is the last week of this developmental block. It was abouT4 weeks, which is a normal amount of time for me. So developmental block is effectively really trying to develop strength and then ideally, either trensfer it to a more specific block afterwards to like display, be able to display very specific strength performances for a power-liftered baseball bench deadlift. Or are you entering another developmental block? You can do either one that's just broad strokes kind of thing. So yeah, trening is going reasonably well. It's time for me to do a pivot and then go back to another developmental block because I need to pick another meat so that I can actually compete with you. So yeah, plan is to go up a weight class, 105, and USAPL run nationals. Next year, it was a really cool experience going to USAPL national Ron Eschinals this year in Lambert, Illinois. If you haven't checked our blog yet, do that. Had a blast. Level of competition was amazing. The venue was really, really decked out, SPD and Rogue and USAPL and people they work with to put on the whole deal. They all did great and the atmosphere was great. So I'd like to be a part of it next year. And yeah, so we'll see. That's the big plan. I don't know if that's the first time I ever talked about that, but that's what's going on. So yeah, trening is going well. I think again, this today and this week actually is going to be the last week of this developmental block. And then see what the future holds for the next next trening block. Jordan, I got cycling shoes and I've kept my Rogue Echo bike the same height and have knee pain. They are Clippins. What should I do? So I think what you're asking me is that since you've switched to Clippin pedals on your Rogue Echo bike, you have knee pain. I don't necessarily know that they're related. I'd be more curious about what the rest of your trening looks like and then how much volume or which would be duration and also what the intensity is of your cycling. So the first question would be, is there any cycling that you can do on the Rogue Echo bike or on a regular bicycle that doesn't hurt? If so, what are the characteristics that are different between that and when you do have pain? Then I'd be looking at your total Trening load and the context of your environmental stress. And this all reports are as in the context rather of you actually having very significant knee pain. And if it's a three on a scale of one a 10, I don't know that I care. And then final thing just off the cuff without knowing anything more about you would be when was the last time you were able to do that activity without knee pain and then kind of what's changed since then. So most of the time knee pain when with respect to cycling is generally due to end actually with resistance trening is usually a load management problem. IMean load when I say load I don't mean weight. That's part of the external load, external load would be objective metrics things like load range of motion, velocity, total volume, etc. What IMean is internal load. So internal load is the load that's actually placed upon the lifter or the individual which is the external load that's filtered through the individual characteristics of the person. So their previous trening, their preparedness to tren, their motivation to tren, their expectations about what the trening is going to feel like and what it's going to do to them. Environmental stress which is not just like humidity, temperature, wind, whatever would like, what's going on in your life, all these things, genetics, again it sort of filters the external load to determine the internal load which is ultimately what gets trensmitted into either fatigue or fitness adaptations. And so if you're having a bunch of pain that's cropped up out of nowhere I think the road that I go down is load management and see kind of what do we need to do to get you back in the game and then as far as practically how to do that usually backing off external load which in this case would be intensity, volume and things of that nature in addition to education would be kind of the first steps there. So long answer but hopefully useful right? Any negatives to only squatting with the belt. IMean if you wanted to get better at squatting without a belt you might want to practice that. This is a specific skill although you will still improve your squatting strength without a belt when you tren only with a belt. I just view it as a trening tool right? If you saw me say oh it's a crutch like IMean I don't know there's a lot of mental things that we do mental strategies we do to kind of decrease our fear about a particular movement or particular set in a particular weight. Using a belt is one of them the data right now suggests that using a belt increases bar velocity and improves the efficiency basically keeping the bar path a little more a little strater. So as far as can you be a very strong individual in there and never use a belt. Sure you'll just likely lift less weight than if you used a belt and got good at using the belt. On the other hand if you're never going to compete I don't know that it matters. But yeah as far as what does a belt do upstairs? Yeah I think that's a deeper story. A morecomplex story and yeah I think overall for somebody who's really interested in lifting weights getting strong etc. I think using a belt on your most important exercises on the heaviest sets and getting good at that seems to be a good idea. I would also help control the external load by doing some sets. Beltless, particularly on less important exercises and you know that's kind of how IManage it. On the other hand you could use a belt for all of those exercises too and live a full and complete life. The idea that you're going to get less abdominal muscle recruitment has been debunked. You'll actually get more what happens is you're able to contract the muscles a little harder and they're also being pressed against the belt as they are contracting. So the intramuscular pressure increases which increases motor unit recruitment. So you tend to actually recruit a little bit more muscle mass. The extent to which that impacts a more significant trening effect I don't know and I don't think anybody else knows either. Meaning we don't have like hypertrophy study outcomes as far as I'm aware of or other strength outcomes where they're actually testing abdominal strength in a reliable manner. Hopefully it makes sense. Let's see. Doc, do you ever use heart rate HRR percentage when prescribing cardiovascular or C? Well, I just had like a pure language stroke. Doc, do you ever use heart rate at this? I don't know what HRR percentage is. You talk about heart rate reserve or just heart rate percentage like heart rate percentage of a particular of your max. Tip or describe cardiovascular exercise. No, I don't. Yeah. One, I just feel like it doesn't encapsulate enough of the individual's internal load. So one way to actually measure the physiological response to exercise the actual internal load is by measurinGHeart rate. You can do that. That being said, I don't think that that's an accurate as accurate of a predictor as RPE. So I prefer using RPE for not only resistance trening but also for cardiovascular respiratory trening as well. So you can do reps in reserve also for resistance trening that that kind of works. But RPE is I think a better way to measure the internal load that somebody's actually experiencing. Yeah. Thoughts on a recent podcast about doctors and stating that only men 50 to 59 with history of MI benefit from statins. IMean, that's demonstrably not true on literally every level. So for instance, young individuals with the history of familial hyper cholesterolemia benefit and this is as young as people, you know, I think is in the adolescent years. Literally a study just came out showing substantial benefit to those individuals on statins. Familiar hyper cholesterolemia, you effectively produce way too much atherogenic lipoprotein which carries around cholesterol, you know, lipid and a protein. There's cholesterol molecules in there and any of that statins been shown to improve mortality basically reduces the risk of early mortality and also the burden of disease. Also, again, from teenagers with that all the way up to very to people in their 20s and 30s who have risk factors for atheroscerotic cardiovascular disease. Again, that's for primary prevention. So preventing the first aphyloscerotic cardiovascular disease event which includes MI, heart attack, stroke, TIA, peripheral artery disease, acute coronary syndrome, all of these things. So for primary prevention and for secondary prevention people who already have diagnosed, have diagnosed with aphyloscerotic cardiovascular disease statins can be useful. So IMean, whoever said that is just not qualified to speak on those things and I probably would it listen to them on something that they're clearly not an expert in and this stuff is covered pretty well in the new article that's going to go up hopefully either tomorrow or Wednesday titled the Science of Red Meat Intake. Any advice on residency interviews? I thought residency interviews were a lot lower key than med school interviews. Med school interviews, you know, everybody's just trying to get in right residency interviews. It seems like people are just trying to figure out if they like you and if they want to work with you for the nexT3 to however many years. It's weird in every residency and medical school interview that I ever did, they always ask me how much I bench pressed. So maybe your experience will be different than mine. But yeah, I think you should know a little bit about the program that you're going to go interview at. So you know what their specialties are or interests are if there are any and then you should, you know, if you have any questions about like the schedule. So for instance, something if you write to an a family medicine, you might ask how many ICU rotations do you have when, you know, the second years get to act as senior residents on when they're on awards, something like that, just stuff that you'd actually matters. On the other hand, it's hard to really know if you're going to be in a good residency program or a bad residency program just from your interviews. You can talk to other residents and see if you can sus out good and bad. But yeah, most people aren't going to tell you that their residency program is bad. That's a little on a cognitive distance there. So I would just try to, you know, kind of get a feel for the work environments that you'll be in, which you get to tour and then also just what the residents are like because you're going to have to work with them most of the time. Yeah, thoughts on a ass to grass heavy squats. They're a perfectly valid way to squat if you want to get better at those types of squats. On the other hand, if you just want to go down to below parallel, that's fine too. You know, depth is kind of this arbitrary level if you're not going to compete. So it exists upon a spectrum of like, you know, you want to do loaded hip and knee flexion, ground-based, loaded hip and knee flexion through some range of motion that you can keep consistent. And, you know, should you go an inch below parallel or write at parallel? What are the big trening differences that you see there? Well, the strength that you gain is going to be specific to the range of motion you tren in. And you can make a case for going to parallel or slightly below parallel from a muscle trening economy standpoint because you're going to get more adductor more glute once you go just below parallel. But if you go even deeper than that, you don't really get any more, you know, motor, unit recruitment or muscle mass being trened. You just are trening the same amount of muscles through a different range of motion so that you get stronger different muscle lengths. So what again, what's the best? I think it depends on your goals and if you're not a competitive lifter, I don't know that it matters. Yeah. All right. If they lifter likes using ammonia or other external things for hypodemites, how would you recommend using them in trening? Probably wouldn't. Yeah. If you know that you like them already, that's cool. Use them at a beat. I think in trening most 99% of your sessions are just putting in work, developing strength. If the performance on a particular strength workout or lift for a particular day is more important than the trening effect, which, you know, maybe you're a week out from a meat. Maybe that's the case. But it's not it's not typical. Then sure, use all the hype, use all the ammonia. But I think just save it for the meat. Yeah. People don't need over everything. Hey, Jordan. If I'm around 20 to 24% body fat, can I gain strength from linear pure disation on a cut? A sure. Yeah. The strength response and weight gain or loss are not that tightly correlated. Obviously, the extent that you're going to compromise lean body mass accrual via a cut or losing weight, you know, sure, that might compromise your total strength improvement in the short term. But in the long term, you're benefiting your health because 20 to 24% body fat is fairly high. I would wager that your waist or comforts is an excess of where it should be and you're probably carrying too much ad a post tissue, which is still a serious to health outcomes. So what I would do, yeah, is most of the time, to help you get their weight and the waist or comforts down to within spec. And then if they want to gain more lean body mass, go for it, particularly if getting strong. And, you know, the low rep range is very important to them. Then surely, increasingly, body mass is going to be a part of the process. But I would not sacrifice one's health in the short term just to get stronger in the short term in some arbitrary rep range. And basically, it is very problematic to be carrying too much body weight for in both the short and the long term. And evidence suggests that when people gain weight, particularly gain excess adipose tissue, they have a hell of a time losing it. If you could just easily lose the weight later, if that was an easy thing to do for people to not only lose the weight, but then keep it off. The obesity epidemic would be much smaller problem than it actually is. So most people when they gain adipose tissue are unable to lose it or unable to keep it off, that's the actual facts of this. This YouTube blog or Instagram live brought you by Topo Chico. I wish that you know what? Look, if you work for Topo Chico, call me up. It's monster me. I literally held the bottle here. I bet you the logo probably wasn't facing the camera, so maybe I'm an amateur here. But it is good stuff. I like this water. I like it because it hurts. And I drink it like hurts a little bit. I want that. You mentioned before that you were doing a paper on CBD oil. Yes, I did. What were the highlights of your findings? That there's very, very little data suggesting that it works in humans outside of these very rare congenital seizure disorders period. The data that we do have on it, particularly well controlled, well designed trials suggests that it's not very helpful with respect to the things it's often touted to improve things like pain, things like anxiety, things like depression, things like sleep disorders or insomnia, things like appetite, nausea, etc. And so a lot of these things, yeah, there's just not data on it. And data that does exist is not either not done in humans or just like the sort of theoretical link between some physiological concept and, you know, an active ingredient in CBD. But the stuff we do have data on like actual data is just not good. And then that's just from like assuming you're getting pharmaceuticals CBD cannabidiol, which you're certainly not unless you have again one of these two very rare seizure disorders or you're being using, you're using medical marijuana in which case you're getting more than just CBD. But that's again, another another discussion. So I just can't recommend it right now. And I think as if more data emerges suggesting that it's very, very useful, then the next problem that I have with this is that the CBD that you're getting over the counter is unregulated. Meaning that there's nobody making CBD products with a certificate of good manufacturing process that's informed for sport, like safe, etc. And then contaminations, the studies on the contaminants found in CBD products IMean, they're overwhelming. Their toxicology papers are just, IMean, the stuff that people are getting in there. Oh man, it's scary. It's scary. And the different dosing and just, yeah. So I think early adopters are probably missing the mark right now and probably there's some nefarious activity with why they're recommending this so hard. You know, the it works for me, fallacy is hard to deal with with people who are not scientists. But look, I'm not concerned if it worked for you or a friend, particularly if that friend is getting paid by the company who makes the CBD oil. That's not a valid scientific study. You have all sorts of biases going into the it works for me, fallacy. And yeah, I'm unconcerned with your, with an uncontrolled observation. And so when we actually put it to the test, when we look at the existing data, yeah, CBD, I can't recommend it. I recommend against it right now outside again, the rare congenital seizure disorders. So I wanted to say thanks for the great content. Recently, did my first policy meet using 12-week strength program total 1320 PR&M squat 501 deadly 539 once six for nine, a place second of 93 kilo class Ben, do that's sick. Reminds me, my first meet, my first meet 2011, a weighty in 176 pounds. It was in a gym. No, he was like, yeah, no, shit, dude. No, it was in a commercial, our school gym rather, like, you know, with all the basketball, uh, uh, backboards pulled up out of the way. Yeah, uh, what did I do? So I went in 176, I squatted 200 kilos, 440, a Bench 303.5, which is 137.5 kilos. I only got my opening bench. I don't know. I don't know why, even try to cut weight either. Like, that I thought the weight cut kind of hurt me. But I remember they were using the stupid Avonco Barbell. The Avonco Barbell's got a very narrow, like, smooth part before the nerling starts. So a standard nerling, I think it's 16 or 16.5 inches, like, nerled a nerl. And then the Avonco Barbell's like 14 inches. And then it's goT3 power rings, three score marks in the thing. None of them are standardized. And you're like, where do I grip this thing? I couldn't figure it out. So between that and the weight cut, I don't know, not a great, not a great performance, but I did bench 303.5. My first, my first meat, 176, and then I pulled 540. So I think we might have totaled the same. I don't know what offhand. Yeah. Nice job, Ben. Uh, hey, man, glad I could steal you from max for a picture of nationals. I think you would have been a great asset to the cupping station. If you guys are new to following me and you missed my birthday celebration. This is also like a going away party. My friends threw me and Santa Cruz when I before IMoved down here. They threw me, it was like a placebo party. There was like a cupping station. There was like a, uh, you know, a reflexology posters all over the place. There was a CBD oil, a collagen protein. IMean, they were just really trolled me hard, which means that we're good friends. So yeah, I'm glad that IMissed the cupping station at Ron Nationals. Form is great on the deadlift, but somehow still managed to tweak my back. And he thought, it's on how I'm getting injured. Yeah. Yeah. So just earlier in this pod, well, not a podcast. It's alive for Q and A thing. We talked about load management. And again, that's not just external load, which would be weight reps, sets, velocity, like range motion, velocity, etc. This is internal load. Um, so how you experience all of those things. Uh, so yeah, I think load management is problematic there. I would not associate, uh, form, quote unquote, on deadlifts with back tweaks to begin with. And I'm writing an article on this is going to be my next 20 pageer. So here's the thing. Uh, neutral spine is actually pretty large range motion. Um, it's between, you know, a couple degrees shy of full flexion and a couple degrees shy of full extension, that requires more explanation, but there's not just one. Oh, that's neutral spine. There's a lot of, you know, relatively large amount of movement therecompared to just this, of one position. It's quote unquote neutral. Uh, sure. You have, uh, cadaver studies where people rip the spine out of cadavers and they flex them a bunch of times in the disc's herniated. Okay. But you cannot squat, deadlift, kettlebell swing, it literally, literally any sort of movement that involves hip extension or hip flexion to hip extension without flexing the spine. Um, you get a lot of flexion in a, kettlebell swing, for example, or a golf swing, um, for example. And you don't see this increase in a discarnation in sports where there's a lot of, uh, uh, uh, uh, spinal flexion either, um, like golf from, in fact, they have lower than average, um, disc, uh, amount of discarnations. But that's not even the point because discarnations aren't even related to low back pain outside of like two to five percent of cases. So, you know, next question is like, well, would you want to, why would you even want have a quote unquote neutral spine or a flat back in a deadlift, you know, why? Uh, appears to be a little bit more efficient from most lifting mechanics. There's obviously some people who tend to have a performance advantage by, uh, when they round their, uh, or flex their, uh, a lot more spine. But, uh, in most performance tasks where this actually has been tested, yeah, a neutral spine tends to do better than a flex spine, um, even though it doesn't actually can note any increased injury risk. So, the biggest problem is that you have hardline coaches, uh, hardline is not a company. IMean, I'm sure it is, but what IMean by hardline is people who say, and it's a black and white, good form bad form. Um, it's like, okay, one define those things, and then two show evidence to support like this arbitrary line of sand. When people do this hardline thing like rounding your back in the deadlift with the squad is bad and you'll get injured, there are no sebo and you, they're hurting you potentially because I have this stupid model in your brain, like, if I do this, I'm going to hurt myself. It's like, okay, by what mechanism? So, anyway, if you have low back pain, I think it's a low management thing. It's probably going to resolve on its own, um, and so I'll just be looking at your programming. That's, that's what I would address first. Yeah. When calories and protein are controlled, does glycemic index matter, um, um, for what? If it's all getting turned to sugar by your body, anyways, we're fine, carbohydrate anywhere's for you, then morecomplex carbs. Again, that's for what? You're talking about for weight loss or weight preventing weight regain. If you're talking about for LDL cholesterol, if you're talking about for insulin sensitivity, potentially diabetes, outcomes, like a himglobaly one C. Yeah, matters because you're talking about a total fiber intake. So, best outcomes are, but for fiber intake between 25 to 29 grams per day on a minimum. Um, and once you're cheating that, your total calories are correct. Uh, you know, you're going to be pretty good. Yeah. Uh, let's see, could you expand on the statement? You guys have made in the past in regards to most people actually being under trened. Yeah, most people in fact are under trened. So, for a population level for just looking at the United States, about 40% of individuals meet the a-robic current, a-robic guidelines set forth in the 2018 physical activity guidelines for Americans. Okay, you can look that up. It's free. All right. Uh, and only about 20% of those who are of the 40% are meeting the resistance trening guidelines, which is the resistance trened twice per week. So, by definition, the plenty of people are under trened, because most of them aren't even trening. And in addition, the ones who are are probably under trened as well. So, uh, and if you just restrict, like, you know, this thing of powerlifting, I think particularly in the United States, there's just this pervasive sort of conventional wisdom that, you know, you don't want to do too much, because you need to recover. And certainly recovery is important. I'm not denying that. But I think you- you have two potential models in your brain for why you're not getting better. So, one is that I'm just not recovering enough. I'm not recovering enough. And so, the way you would manage that is to tren less so that you could recover more. The other thing is I'm not doing enough to get better, which is that's the view that I have. So, not only do you have to do more, but then the time between when you're actually applying the trening stress, right, and generating the trening fatigue to the actual fitness adaptation, the time to realize that is probably going to stretch out too. Although, I would argue that you don't need to necessarily dissipate fatigue to have a fitness adaptation. What you really need to do is have the amount of fitness adaptations that you're developing, that you're generating, the positive aspects, outweigh the negative aspects from trening and dost fatigue. So, you can- you all know that you can perform, uh, or have performed very well at a high level, while you still have a bunch of trening fatigue on board, uh, or life fatigue, right? It's like trening when you're hung over, trening when you're tired. You accidentally PR, oops, how did that happen if it's- if you didn't dissipate all this fatigue? On the other hand, you know that you've trened like crap, performed like crap. When you've dissipated a bunch of fatigue, you went on vacation for a week. You didn't tren at all. You came back, missed your top set. It's just a little more nuanced than that. So, most people by definition, just are not trening. Just, you know, 80% of the United States population does not do any resistance trening at all. The 20% who are engaging in that, I would wager most of them are under trened. And, uh, yeah, most people are under trened. Let's see. Are those hats for sale? These hats, the dad hats, uh, they're going to be for sale pretty soon. So, make sure you get those. I think we made a substantial amount of them because I didn't want to run out for the Christmas slash Hanukkah season. So, you're welcome. I like when people ask me like, what is your opinion on this person? Like, who am I to judge the character of somebody's, you know, somebody else? If you want to ask me a particular thing that they said, you have a question about, I'm cool with that. I probably won't name them because I don't want to, you know, start any internet beefs, I've done that for too long. But, if you ask me, like, thoughts on person, uh, I don't know that I think about other people like that, particularly in the fitness industry, that much just as a, as a person. I think about some things they said, some agreed just claims they've maybe made, but I don't think about them like, I wonder if they're a good person. I want to have a vote for. I wonder like, do they donate to charity? I just don't. Let's see, have run a several strength-focused templates in a row, 12-week strength, powerlifting, too. Looking at focus on losing weight for the next several months, should I do power building to or high-perch feet, too? There were me, uh, I probably do high-perch feet, too. Power building, too, you could actually go back and forth on them. Power building, too, has just got more of a specificity towards the big three, squat bench deadlift. If you don't necessarily, so if you really enjoy those lifts, they'd kind of make your trening world go around. You know, I would do power building, too. But if you, well, like a break, you know, and you want to gauge in some more conditioning stuff, I think how much feet, too, is probably a better choice. You go back and forth, so you don't like lose your, uh, uh, zeal for doing the big three, if that's important to you. Um, and so yeah, we do sell trening templates. It's kind of our entry-level, sort of barbell medicine program. If you're interested in our programming ideas and like how that would actually manifest out into a program, we got a bunch of different templates that are suited for people at various different points of trening with various different goals. You should check those out barbellmus and dot com website. If the goal is to increase muscle size, should we strive to get stronger? Yeah. So I know that you asked me this about two weeks ago and I answered you there. I think if you want to get larger muscles, then one thing, uh, objectively that you'll be looking at, is our, my lifts and the rep ranges that I'm trening them going up. General, that would be a good sign that you're actually gaining lead body mass in addition to actual measurements. That being said, there are a lot of different ways to generate the stimulus to drive muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that don't involve necessarily a lot of heavy resistance trening in the low repetition range. So yeah, how best to reprogram my squat after a nine month herniated disc that caused bad sciatica and left leg, left leg is weak and not firing the way I want it to. Yeah, I wouldn't do anything differently about approaching your squat trening than somebody else who is new to the squat and hasn't, uh, or and or who hasn't been trening it for a while. So I think, uh, you know, being cautious initially, with the trening load and trening volume. So, and I would tren multiple different rep ranges. And, uh, you know, I think if you want to do squat variations, since you have a little more experience, you can start that from the beginning. So you might have one day of backsquats, one day of pause squats and another day of leg press. You could also make the leg press unilateral one leg at a time. So you can actually, you know, if you want to focus on unilateral strength, I think that's a totally reasonable thing. That I like split squats and step ups and stuff like that as well. But, uh, you know, I think a leg press can be useful here too. Does micronize creatine model hydrate have any benefits when compared to just creatine model hydrate? No. And, uh, I did a creatine video on the YouTube's, which I would recommend you guys watch if you haven't seen it already. Hey Doc, I'm starting to create content from my client athletes and circle of influence and would like to bring awareness to you and your content via occasional referencing. Would you be okay with that? I would be flattered. See, one of the best things that you guys can do, guys, and get, I'll sorry, it's 2019, try to be inclusive. Um, one of the best things that you guys can do is to share this stuff with your friends and family and you know, I don't mean in like an annoying evangelistic kind of way, but there are only so many of us involved in barbell medicine, right? And so we are trying to get the word out. We're trying to, uh, help as many people as possible, but we can't do without you. And so, love if you guys would share, you know, this video or this Q&A or some of our posts or whatever you feel like is, you know, uh, within your, uh, within your, uh, within your purview and something that you would normally do share with your friends, family, people go to the gym with, whatever. What is your opinion on the fact that Louis Simmons has people do more box squatting than regular squatting? Would you ever do this yourself? IMean, maybe somebody preferred box squatting and they weren't a competitive power lifter. Sure. But I don't necessarily concern myself with what Louis does. And I don't mean that in an arrogant way. You know, he doesn't concern himself with what I do. And I don't concern himself with what he does because I think that he, when he talks about power lifters, he's talking about a different sport than I am. Um, it's, you know, gear in a particular federation with particular standards that are different than the power lifting that I've competed in. Um, so, you know, that being said, I'm not married to a regular squat that doesn't involve a box for people who aren't competing. Yeah. How do you approach exercise selection when creating general strength programs? Yes, I'll refer you to the beginner prescription, or, uh, uh, which is the free versianavar beginner template, uh, the beginner template also comes with like a 70 page ebook that really details how we came up with that program, which includes a section on exercise selection. So there's no such thing as general strength. All strength is specific. It's specific to the rep range you tren it in, it's specific to the range emotion, the velocity, the contraction types, all sorts of things. The degree that one exercise improves performance in another exercise is called trensference, uh, or carryover. And the more closely related to exercises are via those again, uh, the range emotion, the contraction type, velocity, etc. Uh, the more closely that they're, they're, or the more likely they're going to carry over to each other. So, uh, for a general trenee, the person who's not going to go compete in a barbell sport, instead of specializing on a few exercises, I would like to have a broader base of physical development that I would build for them until they wanted to specialize if they did. So I would not just use one type of squat variation, or even really mandate that they squat. I really just want loaded hip and knee movement, all right? Like, uh, so same thing with the deadlift. I wouldn't necessarily make sure that they do a conventional deadlift or similar deadlift. They could do a trap bar deadlift, you know? Um, yeah. So I have way less restriction. And then finally, we know that from a motor learning standpoint, when you're trying to actually learn, um, how to move your body, for instance, at space, and, and develop all these motor programs, um, particularly when it comes to non-standard, uh, or movements that are different each time, um, that you would want a wider variety of movements. People learn faster that way, and people have more robust development, uh, of these motor programs. So wouldn't high-press specialized just from a, uh, a sort of, uh, trening development standpoint, want more proficiency in more movements, rather than proficiency in less movements. And then, I also think people learn better that way. So hopefully that makes sense. But if you want further explanation, we talk about this extensively in both the free barbell prescription, which is our free, uh, version of the beginner template, and then also the paid version, which we go into this. A lot more depth. Yeah. Let's see, why is my general practitioner telling me that I don't need more than 50 to 70 grams of protein, even though I told him I trened? Well, a few questions. One, why did you ask him? Because it's unlikely that this person is up to date on the current information. So right now, the current, uh, RDA, uh, guidelines suggest point, uh, was it point eight, uh, grams, uh, protein per kilo body weight per day. The current S bin or S bin, European or American, a society for nutrition recommends that most individuals get between 1.2 and 2.0 grams per kilo's, and this, it becomes more and more important as people age, um, because they become more and more and about the resistant. And this is one of the, the primary prevention tools against the sarcopenia and other, um, age related, uh, weakness and muscle loss. So the final part of this is, if you look at actual guidelines from the international society on sports nutrition or international athletic association, uh, I forget the last part of their acronym, or if you look at the NSEA or the ACSM, the recommendations are that individual should consume anywhere between 1.6 to 2.5, all the way up to 3.1 grams, uh, protein per kilo, uh, body weight per day, and as far as where you fit in the range depends on if you're losing weight, gaining weight, maintaining weight, and your needs. So the recommendation that's actually based on very good evidence, uh, that I would give to you is to consume 1.6 to, uh, about 2.5 grams of protein per kilo body weight per day. If you're gaining weight, 1.6 grams per kilo body weight per day is fine. If you're losing weight, I'd ratchet that up, um, yeah. And we discussed this at length in one of our previous newsletter articles actually. So if you have it signed up for newsletter, you get stuff like this in your inbox every month. Yeah. What can I replace milk and weigh with? I like milk because of the amount of protein, but it hurts my stomach. Yeah, so you could try a lactose-free version of milk. If you like that, you could also try a lactase pill to see if that's, you know, if you just don't tolerate dairy, if that's the thing. If, uh, and I would expect you to still be able to tolerate weight with water. So you try that. If you can't tolerate the way with water, one thing that people tend, you know, commonly have reactions to is a weight protein concentrate with the beta lactobumin. Um, you might try to do a weight protein isolate. My recommendation would be try the way with water first. If that doesn't work for you, try to find a whey protein isolate by a pound of it. See if that works with water. Um, and then you don't need to take a protein supplement though. Really, if you were getting your dietary protein in from other sources. So any sort of, uh, any protein source really, if you like eggs, if you like, uh, chicken, fish, lean meats, um, if you like yogurt, Greek yogurt, you know, dairy works well if you can tolerate it, but it sounds like that's not an option for you. Uh, but there are plenty options out there. Another non-trening question. What is your method with getting your beard line while trimming your neck? Digging the thicker beard man? Uh, beard questions. So, uh, yeah, on the neck, I just use, um, I have an anandis-tea-tea-tremeer. That's just my little, what I used to line up down here, and then I use a safety razor to shave. That's it. Yeah, not no real special technique. Yeah. Are those blue-like glasses? No, these are real glasses because I am losing my eyesight. Do you think isolation exercises are more beneficial than compound lifts for hypertrophy? I'm thinking that isometric is simply a requirement of volume plus frequency behind a certain point of exposure to trening. Uh, I don't, IMean, I don't necessarily think so when you look at primary movers, so for instance, likEQuadriceps in the squat, for example, uh, I don't necessarily know that isolation movements are any better than them. I do think that when trening resources dwindle that one way to get an additional trening volume, additional trening stress, particularly to drive more hypertrophy, um, you can do isolation exercises, but secondary movers probably respond a little bit better to isolation exercises. Also, you can take isolation exercises to failure, or closer to failure, but also to failure with a little bit less detrimental effects. And then again, you know, trening, um, trying to achieve, most of our hypertrophy, you know, the maximum improvement that you can by just compound lifts is probably not going to work for, for most folks, um, because you're going to need to do more trening volume, uh, more frequency, and then ultimately fatigue becomes a problem that you need to, uh, uh, that you need to deal with. And isolation exercises are one way to do that, but I don't, was far as one better than the other for primary movers. Nah, probably not secondary movers. Now you make a better case for that, but you can also find ways to tren around them, um, but in the grand scheme of things, a hypertrophy program would have both probably. Let's see. Vibility of a vegan diet for strength athlete. Yeah, so this is the last question we'll answer tonight. Uh, yeah, I think that if you want to be a vegan or vegetarian, as long as you're getting in, you're the correct amount of calories and told you're going to be fine. In fact, the research from multiple different studies showing that as long as you're getting the correct dose of protein that the trening outcomes are either no different or very, very similar or so much so that any difference that's statistically significant, it's probably not clinically significant, um, because of the inter individual variation in trening response. So if someone wants to be vegan, someone wants to be vegetarian, cool. We also make a, uh, nice p protein isolate called vegan rx. It's got the same essential amino acid content as our whey protein, um, which is good. So if you have a vegan friend vegetarian friend and then you need a protein supplement, there you go. Okay. Thank you guys so much for tuning in. I'm about to get kicked off here because I've been here for like an hour. Uh, again, son of a newsletter is coming out. We're going to give you guys first access to the black Friday deals. Um, also we got a bunch of great information that goes out every month. Um, so if you're not find it for that, do that. Barble medicine apparel. We got a new matte merch over there. We got a baseball tee. You got competition T's pre order for the SPD singlets coming out. Uh, and then yeah, I hope everybody is having a great Monday. Thank you so much for tuning in. See you guys soon.

=== FILE: Longevity Medicine： Biological Age, Early Cancer Tests, GLP-1s, Hormone Therapy, and Training Target [xxr4HvYw5nk].txt ===

 ab excuses, forever has become $100 billion a year industry. We're currently seeing a flood of longevity startups selling the promise of a turn back clock, marketing DNA methylation tests, and high tech cancer screens as the ultimate insurance policy for your future. But for many, these expensive metrics are a poor proxy for the actual physiology that dictates how you age. A molecular clock is silent on the loss of motor units and the creeping anabolic resistance that eventually makes the difference between an independent life and a nursing home. Similarly, the new wave of multi-cancer early detection tests promises a one and done solution to oncology. Yet, when you look at the actual clinical utility, these screens frequently miss the very early stage pathologies that we are most equipped to treat, while the pulse alarms leave healthy patients trapped in a diagnostic loop. Optimization isn't found in a descriptive score or an expensive gadget. It requires a prescriptive, treat-to-target strategy that hits hard clinical benchmarks for cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular power, all while navigating the complex reality of GLP-1s, hormone replacement therapy, and behavioral interventions that really do optimize health. In this episode, we're moving past the marketing to establish a concrete evidence-based framework for longevity as it sits today. And to help us dissect the latest in longevity is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing all right, and I believe you've pointed this out before, but I appreciate your pronunciation of dissect instead of dissect. I just, you know, I still have PTSD from when I was getting my masters in anatomy. I just, it was a bad day. I mean, any day, really, bad day at that point. All right, well, look, we got a lot to get into today. So let's start out with the biological age, probably one of your favorite tests, if I had to guess, one of your favorite medical metrics. So we've all seen the 60-year-old who is healthy, super active, and outlifts people half their age, I aspire to be that person. But we've also seen the 40-year-old who seems to be falling apart. Chronological age is getting a lot of hate as a blunt instrument that fails to account for how fast your internal machinery is actually wearing out. And SCAP has created a massive market for new metric, biological age, and there's a test for it. Austin, now, when you're looking at a patient, do you take note of how they actually appear compared to their age on their chart? And if so, how do you interpret that? Yeah, I think it's something that a lot of people intuitively notice just in society, right? Or looking at celebrities, for example, like during the amusingly during the recent Super Bowl halftime show, I think people were surprised to see what Ricky Martin looked like when he came out on stage. So it's kind of like this common intuitive thing that people observe of how do people look compared with what I might expect for someone in that demographic. In the medical setting, it can often be even more striking. And it is immediately, I do what's called the eyeball test when I walk into a hospital room or an ER room. And sometimes, I will already have some background demographic information on the person and I might know that they are 40 or 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 or upwards of whoever the oldest patient I ever had was well into their hundreds. And that immediate person that you are faced with, whether it is concordant with my expectations or discordant with my expectations, and then the more discordant with my expectations, it almost now subconsciously informs how do I feel about this person's like level of risk? How likely are they to have a good outcome, a bad outcome when I see somebody who's in their 30s or 40s or 50s who looks decades older, whether from smoking or sometimes, unfortunately, alcohol use or even other medical comorbidities, certain types of cancers and auto immune conditions that have ravaged their body in various degrees. That makes me feel not as optimistic for them in many situations. And then certainly at the other end of the spectrum, if I'm seeing a 60 or 70 or 80 year old who looks half their age, then I feel much more optimistic that I'm likely to be able to get them through whatever they're going through, or they may not even need to be admitted to the hospital at all. So pretty informative. And I think there's data on this in terms of physicians, intuitions around this as well as if you just ask a doctor, would you be shocked if this person died in the next year? And if they say no, I wouldn't be shocked. It's like that person's risk is like markedly higher. So even though we can't predict timelines with great accuracy, that gut sense that we accumulate over time actually is like we're reasonable heuristic here. Yeah, it's kind of like a vibe check, but it just takes into account a lot of factors that you could probably articulate like you just did. And then other things that are just more subconscious and you're kind of confabulating a reason. You're like, I don't know, man, I just look at this person and I think this, which brings us to kind of this test of your biological clock. Right. We all know that the chronological age is basically just a count of birthdays. And so this biological clock is supposed to be different in that it accounts for what's going on inside or under the hood. Now really what they're doing is measuring what's known as DNA methylation. You can think of your DNA as a massive library of instructions. And as you age, your body adds these small kind of chemical tags that we call methyl groups. They put them on specific locations around the DNA. Now these tags don't actually change your genetic code, but they act as like a post-it note telling the cell whether to read a certain page or to skip it. These are necessary for normal development and improper methylation is linked to diseases such as cancer and forms of neurodegenerative disease. These tags change throughout life in response to environmental factors, diet, lifestyle, et cetera, and can make them a key marker of quote, biological aging. Researchers can look for specific DNA methylation footprints that are highly correlated with the variables that they're looking for. So things like age, straight up just chronological age, but also things like high blood pressure, VO2 max, all sorts of stuff. And then they basically build an algorithm around it using some machine learning. There are multiple generations of these biological tests. So the first one, the first generation basically thought straight up chronology. It's an algorithm built from the DNA of known ages. So like, I think it's 20 to 100. So you can think of this as like an odometer. There's like a Horvath biological age. I think there's a Hannam biological age that would be these first generation ones. Again, it's all DNA methylation, but it's mostly based on just how old are these genes basically. The second generation, this is an algorithm that's built on mortality data related to DNA markers of various plasma proteins like creatinine, for example. You can think of this as like a check engine light, risk of death. So grim age, which great name by the way, for the second generation biological clocks. But again, still DNA methylation, just different sites, different footprints and the data that they fed into the machine learning is based on mortality data, not just age. And then there's a third generation still DNA methylation, but now for specific physiological variables like VO2 max, blood pressure, etc. And this is instead of it being just your chronological age or your risk of death, it's more of like the pace of aging like a speedometer, if you will. And the most famous one is out of this New Zealand cohort from a city called Dundan. So there's decent data here, both on the second generation and the third generation ones. So the second generation clocks, like the grim age, have demonstrated a legit ability to predict time to death and chronic disease onset more accurately than a birth certificate. The third generation, once the Dundan pace, for example, showed that people aging faster had greater declines in physical and cognitive function years before the disease appeared, making it a potential sort of early warning system. The second gen is probably still the best for predicting risk of disease and death, however, there's more data here and specifically data that's been adjusted for factors like smoking, BMI and existing chronic diseases. And so for every five year increase in this grim age score, the risk of all cause death increased by 44%, the risk of cardiovascular death increased by 33%, and the risk of non cardiovascular death, so things like cancer, respiratory disease increased by 54%. But for many, this single composite score of its biological age could act as like a psychological lever for behavior change in a way that looking at a dozen separate lab values cannot. But from a clinical perspective, does a grim age score actually tell you anything that a standard blood pressure cuff or a lab for Apolypoprotein B doesn't already show you? Well, I mean, I would have to admit that grim age, these scores are not something that have been widely adopted into regular clinical practice. This isn't something that my EMR, you know, automatically displays for me in practice. So this isn't actually a metric that is in regular clinical use. However, I would see a scenario where these things could tell you things that a standard blood pressure wouldn't in fact tell you. And part of that is that, you know, they are incorporating a whole bunch of different data points. And using that, as you said, this kind of like background data, almost like an actuary has put all this stuff together based on the machine learning aspect, compared with either an isolated data point like a blood pressure measurement, which as we've talked about is deeply flawed because it's a single snapshot of your blood pressure right now. Or an ApoB measurement, for example, is a single snapshot measurement right now. And it is only really pertinent to one kind of health related outcome that we care about, not entirely, but we'll make that oversimplification. And so from the clinician side, your job, at least prior to the use of these types of tools would be, you have to be that integrator. You have to have the background knowledge, you have to be able to do some sort of like either vibes based, or if you actually did mathematically, you know, appropriately weighting each of these individual variables. That's a lot of hard work. And it requires a lot of experience to be able to do if you're just going to go based on your gut sense, right? A lot of, you know, very experienced clinicians, like I described, where I can go into a hospital room and I can kind of give you my spidey sense of like, how sick is this person? How likely are they to die? That's not something that you come out of medical school knowing how to do. Nor would I expect any regular clinician graduating from their whatever schooling that they have gone through. You could even give them an array of these data points and you could say, give me a probability of this disease or this or death in this person. I bet there would be abysmal at it. And so to the extent that we might have tools that are being developed like this based on, you know, data of, sorry, population level data that is reflective of the population that you're looking at in front of you, like in the clinic room or in the hospital room, I could totally see a scenario where these tools are more useful than just the individual data points in isolation. The individual data points are going to be most useful for making individual patient level clinical decisions day to day, whereas these kind of integrated cumulative scores can give you that overall vibes based assessment of the patient. Yeah. Yeah, I think what you're getting at is that this is like, it like enriches your, your previous data set. Like, if you know somebody's blood pressure, their cholesterol panel, all these sorts of things, you know, their recent clinical history or whatever, and then you have this in addition to it, it's giving you like enriched data, right? Compared to just having this and being like, so what do, Doc? And you're like, yeah, don't know. I can't treat that integrated number. I can treat the sub data points, but how aggressively should I treat them? Maybe that data that integration informs my pre-test probability of, you know, how likely are you to die and how aggressive should I be in your situation? Yeah. No, you stole my thunder because I think when it comes to a use case here, you start thinking about like, yeah, how would somebody use this? And it would be like in an indeterminate range or for example, somebody who looks really, really healthy on paper with what you've tested so far and then they randomly got this or decided to get this and then it was discordant and you're like, interesting. So perhaps you would go work that up further, but we'll get to that in a second. I think the biggest thing to clarify here though is that there's this massive difference between a descriptive metric like this and a prescriptive one, you know, so these clocks can tell you like that you're aging, but they don't really tell you why or how to fix it. There's no like threshold, like if your score is X on this clock, do Y, you know, and monitor Z, for example. And you compare that to like a, you know, the prevent, you know, cardiovascular disease risk calculator and you know the variables that go in there and you know, like, okay, if we modify these, here's the predicted outcome and here's how to modify these specifically. So the other part here is that when you kind of dive a little deeper into the models being used to train these biological clocks in the validation studies, they show that traditional clinical markers, something like a systolic blood pressure, that's the top number accounts for up to two thirds of the variants in these, you know, age models, which is not unexpected, but it's just also like, yeah, the basics still matter. Yeah, absolutely. And I think my biggest takeaway is that the, if you find that your biological age is elevated, it's more of like a lagging indicator, like it's not like a maybe prospective sort of thing, really. So like the blood pressure has been elevated for a while or you've had poor cardiovascular fitness or your Apolyproprotein B has been high, you know. Yeah, that's already been happening in the background. And this kind of is a confirmatory test rather than like, you're at risk for developing these things so much. And also they still haven't incorporated any sort of functional stuff like EO2 max is included in the Dundun pace one, but there's not like anything for sarcopenia just yet, which would be maybe more interesting, because again, our current like screening tests for sarcopenia mostly identify people who have it already. And you're like, we wish we could have caught this earlier when it was maybe easier to intervene. So yeah, I think the major issues we have, you know, clear guidelines for like existing clinical markers, mostly speaking, you know, things like LDL, things like Apolyproprotein B, blood pressure, blood sugar, whatever, don't really have that here. So that's like kind of issue number one. Issue number two is like the retest reliability. You could do the same biological age sort of test in the same week and get massively different results, which is also problematic. So yeah, maybe more of like a risk enhancer for somebody who already has all of their traditional risk factors known and accounted for, they're still curious, and they got some money. These are like $200 to $500 tests, generally speaking. And so if you check all those boxes and you're like, yeah, I'm more curious, this could be useful. And I think ultimately what that would result in is potentially a motivation, like a lever for behavior change. And then from a medical standpoint, like further workup, you know, if you see somebody who's got, again, most of the traditional risk factors have already been tested for identified or whatever. And you're like, well, you're at risk for heart disease as it turns out. Maybe we do go down the road of advanced imaging or something like that or additional testing, or even like empirically start some things that would theoretically lower your risk. I don't know. Is that how you think about this? Yeah, I think it's an interesting area. I would have to play around with it to see, like, when faced with these data, do I feel or notice or observe myself doing anything differently? And so that's kind of where I would like to go. I'm open to it, but you're right. I think that this falls more still in the realm of like, quote unquote, the optimizers, the health maxers, as you described them, compared with those who are kind of going through a more traditional route. And so the impact would kind of remain to be seen, because there's even debates, for example, of like, if you look at non HDL cholesterol as your traditional marker, how much more does APO be really at on top of a non HDL? And it's like, it's a modest amount, it's non zero, but it is admittedly a modest amount. And you can probably get most of the risk information that you want out of a non HDL cholesterol outside of some certain edge situations. And so this is might be a similar situation where if you integrate or you're addressing all of your traditional risk factors, how much more do these biological age kind of metrics add maybe a modest amount and different people will put different values on that. And some people might be worth it to them, other people not so. Yeah, I just imagined somebody coming to you and saying, look, my grim age score is X. And you're like, great, what's your blood pressure? And I'm like, I don't know, man. Yeah, hope not. Yeah. All right. So ultimately, I think we can summarize that biological age is a high tech way of summarizing the effects of your environment and habits on your physiology. But it's probably much more productive to focus on the variables we know how to measure and manage for health, starting with your blood pressure, cholesterol, and maybe even your deadlift. But what happens when things start to go wrong, despite our best efforts? So we're going to enter the controversial world of early detection tests for cancer. And whether screens like gallery or hymns, they're recently offering are actually worth the investment for the average adult. So we've talked at length about the limitations of the current medical system. You know, it's reactive rather than proactive. And nowhere is this more apparent than in oncology, where we wait for a palpable lump or a change in bowel habits to go look for trouble. By then the horse is often out of the barn. But now there are advancements in these multi-cancer early detection tests and their commercial interests to flip the script. The question is whether or not the technology has caught up to the marketing, or if we're just creating a new generation of the worried well through overdiagnosis and over testing. Austin, have you ever gotten a patient who's done one of these tests and been referred to you? I have had patients who have done this type of testing. I'm not can't say for sure whether they've used these specific ones, nor what I want to name them in particular. But yes, I've had certain had patients who were into this kind of total full body like MRI scans and other forms of supposedly early cancer detection tests. It's been it's often a sign of a challenging conversation that is to come with these. Yeah, Harbinger sort of, you're like, Hey, I got this done. What do we do about it? And you're like, Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So there's some look this these could be good. The traditional screening model is siloed. You know, get a test for the breast, a test for the colon, a test for the prostate. If you got a lethal cancer somewhere else like the pancreas liver ovaries, you're essentially flying blind until symptoms show up. So these early detection tests for multiple different cancers, specifically the gallery test that's now available through their HIMS partnership, use a single blood draw to look for cell free DNA methylation patterns back to the DNA methylation again. Again, it's like a molecular fingerprint that the cancer cells leak into the bloodstream. The appeal is that it's a one and done approach instead of five different appointments and invasive procedures. Potentially you get a single report covering dozens of different cancer types. And so if you're a high risk patient, the idea of finding it early is this powerful psychological and clinical tool for you. If you can catch a stage one pancreatic tumor, the five year survival rate changes from a death sentence to a manageable, often curable surgical case. So it does sound like a total game changer, but medicine is littered with ideas that had flawless mechanistic logic, but failed to improve actual human life, specifically lifespan. Austin, you spent a ton of time looking at debating, discussing screening tests, especially at the level of the population. Where is this like find it early logic led us to a dead end before? Yeah, lots of places. And I wouldn't say that I'm like an absolute rigid thinker around screening. I think that there are reasonable basic principles that should be kind of respected when it comes to selecting a reasonable screening test. And we've talked about these on prior podcasts a bunch. Ideally, it should be a prevalent health problem. It should be something that actually has a accurate and reliable and cost effective test for it. And it should be something that has an asymptomatic latent phase, meaning a period of time when there are no symptoms that would lead to diagnostic testing, during which period you could catch it. And there should be a treatment available that when offered earlier compared with later, substantially improves the trajectory of that disease or the person's morbidity and mortality. If all of those criteria are met, you can make a reasonable case for screening for a lot of things. Now there are many medical conditions out there that will fail one or more of these things. It might be an ultra ultra rare disease that it's not worth screening the whole population for. It might be a condition that actually doesn't have a long asymptomatic latent phase, but rather it will manifest abruptly. All of a sudden it doesn't make sense to screen people for stroke because that is an acute condition, for example, even though there might be other things that you could screen that would increase the risk of it in advance. There are conditions that for which there is no effective treatment, which raises questions about, well, what do we do if we screen and you screen positive for that type of condition? And each of the other criteria has examples. There are also different types of diseases. I remember, I think it was a text by Gilbert Welch called Overdiagnosed that I read years ago. And in it, I don't know if it was his metaphor, if he had borrowed it from someone else, but they described a few different types of diseases. Basically, if you imagine throwing the barn door open and there's like an eagle that like flies out of the barn super quickly, that's like a super rapid, fast, aggressive disease that's going to kill you no matter what. So if you catch it, unfortunately, it's already too late. And those are not useful to screen for. On the other hand, there's the snails that are moving so slow that whether you catch it early or later, it doesn't matter because it's such a slow, indolent disease that you are more likely to die of something else before this disease ever gets you. And then there's the medium speed ones. I don't know what animal you want to choose to demonstrate that type of disease process that proceeds at a pace where you actually have an opportunity to catch it early and substantially modify the trajectory. Those are the ones that are worth screening for. And so that's another lens through which to view this. And then lastly, what I will mention is that even for a given disease that might meet all these criteria, the value of screening for it might diminish or change over time as treatment improves. So the better and better we get at treating a condition, the less and less value you will see from screening in terms of preventing say premature death or disease or complications. This isn't to dismiss because some people might say, oh, so you'd rather just people get the disease and have to treat it compared to preventing it. It's like, well, no, that's not what I would prefer. But if you were looking at screening test through the lens of like, does this prevent people from dying, the better we get at treating things, the less beneficial you are going to see those screening tests appear, right? A good example of this, maybe a little out of the ordinary is like, how good we have gotten at treating what's called acute coronary syndromes or like heart attacks. We are much, much better at treating the acute heart attacks. And so now people are dying way less often of those. And they live with chronic heart disease for much, much longer. Other examples of conditions where screening has kind of led us astray is, you know, serologic or blood-based tests for ovarian cancer, certain tumor markers, others that have been controversial over the years. And I've even gone back and forth on this a little bit, depending on the state of technology is prostate cancer screening. Lung cancer screening is very tricky and many others. So this is a complex world for those who are either maybe new to our podcast and our audience. We have had several topics where we have covered screening in the past and would direct you to some of that prior content. And then if you are interested in more, then let us know. I'm happy to ramble about this all the time. It's an interesting field. Yeah. Yeah, you raised some interesting questions. So we need to look at, well, are these tests good enough? We need to look at the diagnostic yield. And let's start with the Pathfinder study. It's a landmark study in the space. It basically showed the limitations of these multi-cancer early detection tests. In a group of over 6,600 people, the test signaled cancer in 92 individuals, but only 35 of those were actually confirmed to have cancer. Now that gives us a positive predictive value of only 38%. Now, the specificity of the test is marketed as an incredible 99.6%. And a high specificity test means that if you don't have cancer, the test is almost certainly going to return a negative result. But if you do have cancer, it should be positive. It's basically designed to minimize false alarms in healthy people. However, the clinical utility is limited by the sensitivity, which is the test's ability to actually find the cancer when it's present. At stage one, the sensitivity is only 16.8%. That means that for every 100 people with early stage cancer, the test misses 83 of them. Now, by the time you reach stage four, the sensitivity jumps to over 90%, which creates a fundamental paradox in screening. The test is most accurate when the cancer is already advanced and treatment options are limited, but it's least effective at stage one, where medical intervention could theoretically have the highest impact. And then we also have to address the false positive burden. Now, this is something you've talked about with the screening test just generally speaking, but in this particular study, 60% of the positive signals were also like false alarms. And for those patients, that means some sort of like diagnostic odyssey of PET scans, CT scans, and perhaps invasive biopsies for cancers they don't actually have. And then on top of that, there's some racial disparities here because the models are generally trained on white people. And while sensitivity appears similar in other populations, the sample sizes in those cohorts were pretty small. So we need to make sure that these tools don't exacerbate the existing access gap in screening due to the large price tag. These things run from like $700 to $1,000. So we have a test that appears statistically like pretty good, but pretty noisy on some other cases. And when you layer in the fact that the sensitivity for the very early stage one cancers that we actually want to find out, the detection rate is pretty low, the value proposition starts to look a bit shaky. Now, Austin, you've been pretty vocal about the harms of over screening kind of alluded to that earlier. When you see these numbers, especially like that relatively high false positive rate, what is your primary concern for the patient sitting across from you might be wanting a test like this? Yeah, I think it's a matter of managing expectations. And again, this kind of dichotomy that we have of people who are like maximizers who, you know, some people say like, look, I'm an adult, I can handle a false positive and I'm willing to deal with all the complications. And I'm like, okay, I mean, I still think we ought to have a conversation about this because there's, you know, some pretty catastrophic potential there, their edge, they're rare, for sure. But it reminds me of a case study or a paper that was published in JAMA many years ago called the $50,000 physical for anyone who's in healthcare who's interested, really interesting story about how kind of a simple in clinic kind of even guideline based screening sort of thing led to some pretty catastrophic kind of downstream complications, despite everyone having the best of intentions towards their patient. And so, you know, there are certainly those negative outcomes. And then there's of course, the very also similarly compelling stories of people who say, well, I got this test and it found this cancer and it saved my life. It's like, well, there's some logical leaps there. I won't like push back, you know, challenge that too hard to your face, at least, but in my mind, I still wonder, well, we caught a cancer, was it the bird that flew out of the barn that was, you know, or was it this the snail that was never going to kill you no matter what? Or was it the animal that we now have a opportunity to treat? And actually meaningfully impact, we kind of don't know, we don't have that kind of counterfactual to speak of here. So the idea that we have a test being promoted for screening with very, with, you know, relatively poor sensitivity, that is a problem for me because I would prefer a good screening test have really good sensitivity to tell me that if it's negative, I'm done. I don't need to proceed further. And if it is going to catch something, I would prefer it to actually have pretty good utility for that in the earlier stages when I have the opportunity to intervene. It is not going to be as useful to diagnose a late stage thing when I already have other methods to diagnose the late stage things, like a biopsy for cancer that will tell me what this cancer is. And when it's at its late stage, and then that can inform my prognostic discussion. So it's almost like the use case for this remains in question for me compared with what we're actually looking for in practice. Yeah, no, that's well said. And I think this is going to become even more important because about two weeks ago, Grail, which is a company, submitted its final module for FDA pre-market approval for their multi-cancer diagnostic called gallery. And they teamed up with HIMS for this. Now, there is an ongoing NHS gallery trial with over 140,000 participants in it. It's the only study that's been designed to show if these tests actually reduce late stage cancer incidents and mortality at the population level, but the results aren't there yet. So until we see that data, we're basically looking at a surrogate marker, maybe cancer detection, not necessarily a survival benefit, even if it does that well. We've got to be wary of the trap where we find the cancer earlier, but don't actually extend the patient's life. They just get a longer time of being a cancer patient, which, you know, obviously again, managing expectations for somebody says they can handle it. That can be a challenging discussion. Totally. Yeah, sure. It would be nice if we held these things to very legitimate screening test standards and said, hey, show me that this actually improves real outcomes. Yeah. Yeah. So as far as the use case here, I'm thinking about, again, we go back to our first, you know, the first thing we talked about, the biological clock. You got all the traditional risk factors that are known and accounted for, still curious or worried perhaps of either like a personal family history of particular cancer or something like that, and you have adequate resources financially and psychologically to potentially manage this. I guess I could see a use case for this, especially someone's maybe over the age of 50, for example, and again, has that family history. You know, the price point is pretty significant, but I would want to emphasize it's not really a swap. You don't like take existing cancer screens that we have and just, you don't need to do that. You got this blood test, for example. It's more of an add-on. There are many other types of cancer screening tests that are relatively good evidence for that you can't commonly hear about. So cervical cancer screening, colorectal cancer screening, would still want to do those in addition, so it's not really a swap. And, you know, Austin has some maybe interesting bones to pick with the USPSTF guidelines, especially around breast cancer screening. We'll save that for a separate podcast, but does that seem like a reasonable use case for this, if you were thinking about it? Yeah, I would, as with many other things, I'm like not terribly rigid in these decisions for patients who are very motivated.  and have the resources to pursue them as long as I feel like they've been sufficiently informed and are aware of what they're getting themselves into. I try not to be overly paternalistic about these things, but rather to walk with the person through whatever their health journey holds and try to be a useful advisor to them rather than somebody who's dictating to them what they can and can't do. Yeah, well said. So, yeah, early detection can be a double-edged sword. It offers the promise of a cure, but also the risk of maybe unnecessary intervention and workup. As we refine these techniques, the goal remains the same, adding years to your life and life to your years, not just more time at the doctor's office, even though we're generally happy to see you. Speaking of adding years, we're going to shift from the lab to the gym. We come back from the break. We're discussing how to lift for your life the science of exercise and longevity. All right, many people discuss exercise as if it's a single, generic pill. Just be more active, they say, but the reality is that exercise is a complex prescription with highly specific ingredients. For example, how much and what type of exercise is best for longevity? And how much does it matter that the person responds to the exercise by getting fitter? If we can identify specific benchmarks, exactly how much you need to lift or how fast you need to move, we can transition from vague advice to actionable targets that effectively lower your risk of dying early. Now, Austin, we've got so much evidence on medications when it comes to dosing, monitoring, and expected benefits. We know that if we lower blood pressure by five millimeters of mercury, we reduce the risk of major cardiac events like heart attacks by about 10%. Why do you think we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise? I will gently push back and say I don't know that it is the case that we don't have anything like this when it comes to exercise. There is a pretty abundant base of literature around kind of correlational data of dose response and things like that between exercise volume and some data sets, exercise intensity and other data sets, some of which we've actually talked about recently on the podcast, where these things on a sufficiently broad population level, oftentimes using self-reported data for all the problems that come with that. And it's unsurprising that those who do much more and who are able to do more intense generally have better outcomes. How much of that is causal from them doing more and doing it more intensely, leading to better outcomes? How much of it is healthier people can also do those things? Kind of like the data around depression. There's a lot of people who bandy about these papers saying that exercise clearly cures depression. It's like, well, how much of it is that extremely depressed people have a hard time doing exercise? There's probably some blend. I would be totally unsurprising that there's some element of causation there, but also some element of kind of correlational, almost accidental association or reverse causation as well. So I think we have some data on this relating to this dose response phenomenon between volume and intensity and frequency and certain health metrics. I think we would both prefer that it be a little bit more granular in nature and maybe even correlated not just between the dose of exercise and the outcome, but maybe like, what are the specific mediating factors between that dosage of exercise and that outcome? What is the thing that mediates it? Does it necessitate a certain degree of adaptation? In which case, what is the minimum adaptive unit that you need? How much of an increase in VO2 max will cause a given health benefit? Because even then we have correlational data between VO2 max and health outcomes, right? But how much of that is causal or how much of it is just like simultaneous? You're adapting in one area and getting health benefits in another. That kind of mediating analysis would be super interesting for like the exercise physiology like nerds and medical clinicians here. A lot of people don't need that level of granularity, but that would be kind of an additional level that would be interesting to have. Yeah. I just think of like a cheered approach. Like you'd want more physicians, more healthcare providers, just more people, generally speaking, not only to be recommending exercise, but doing the correct behavior change counseling to manifest that, right? So that's like on the floor. Got to do that. Thing two would be ensuring that people are being adherent and doing those things, right? So now, yeah, that's the second part. Third part is, are they actually getting fitter, right? If we think or find that actual improvements in fitness as measured by VO2 max, various strength metrics or whatever, need to happen in order to improve somebody's health, then we should be monitoring them and have like certain benchmarks. That assumes that's true. So let's dive in here. We know that going from zero exercise to some exercise is probably the most useful transition point, the largest bang for the buck, if you will. So you go from no exercise to doing half the current guidelines. You're going to get the majority of your health-related benefits from that transition compared to going from, all right, I'm doing half the current guidelines amount of exercise to double. Like it's just, yeah, going from zero to something tends to be a bigger bang for your buck. And if you hit the physical activity guidelines, that's light years better. Your resistance train twice a week, you're doing 20 to 30 minutes of aerobic training on most days. And the current physical activity guidelines do kind of list out like how often you should do it, the general intensity that it should be done at and things of that nature. But it's incomplete. It's incomplete to me because there's no monitoring and recommendations for dosing adjustments to achieve specific benchmarks. Now, maybe this doesn't matter. If you've ever wondered why so many mediocre personal trainers stay in business, it's because exercise is remarkably hard to get wrong enough that it doesn't work. Unlike a surgical procedure or like a narrow therapeutic index drug where a 10% dosing error is a catastrophe, exercise has a massive safety margin and a physiological buffer that is incredibly forgiving. You can do a lot of stuff wrong and still get benefits. I think about this often when I'm in the gym. Still I think we need to move towards a more precise exercise prescription, one that mandates monitoring the specific clinical performance benchmarks that drive health and longevity. Now, Austin, to me, the current general guidelines seem analogous to prescribing a new medication at a fixed dose for every single patient and then never monitoring their physiological response. In what other area of medicine would we ever find that acceptable? Yeah, it doesn't really tend to happen very much. There's lots of areas in medicine where there are broad based clinical guidelines of like here is where you start, right? That might come to menopausal hormone therapy or here's how you would initiate thyroid replacement, hormone replacement or here's how you would treat somebody's blood lipids or something But most of the time it is based on, hey, here's the reasonable place to start and then monitoring and adjusting from there to achieve the outcome you want. That's the aspect of this that you're describing that's missing is we have the general guidelines on where to start. But if somebody is not meaningfully responding to that whatever starting dose you end up prescribing for them, it does require some kind of iterative adjustment, trial and error, interrogating what are they doing? Are they actually meeting the recommendations? What are the barriers? Dose adjustments need to be made and how to get the outcomes that we're actually looking for rather than assuming that, oh, if I told them to do the guidelines, quote unquote, whatever that means and even if they are meeting those guidelines, are they getting everything that we're looking for out of their activity? They might be somebody who's a little bit more physiologically resistant to that intervention or they may be somebody who's even physiologically very sensitive to it in various ways for better or for worse. And so that might require some individualization. A lot of this is a bit more theoretical than it is strongly evidence-based that ultra-individualized exercise programming will lead to better risk of death, for example. That would need to be proven. But it is an intuitive concept that is broadly applied in many other areas of medicine and so it's reasonable, I think, at this point to, in a sense, extrapolate it here and say we should actually try to get people not just doing these things but objectively benefiting in some way from them. Yeah. Yeah. So let's get into this longevity and training discussion. We think generally about the effects of meeting the current physical activity guidelines on things like mortality, so premature death. So for conditioning alone, meeting the aerobic guidelines by themselves, 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, it's associated with about a 30% reduction in all-cause mortality. For resistance training alone, adding those two days of muscle strengthening exercises provides an independent benefit of 10% to 17% reduction in premature mortality. And when you do both, but you're looking at more like a 40% reduction in risk, this is kind of though where the one-size-fits-all prescription fails. And when we stop looking at just the activity and start looking at the actual physiological response, maybe like a key performance indicator or KPI for exercise, I think that we can get a little more nuanced here. So the two big ones you're going to look at are VO2max and Strength. And now it's long been said, I'm sure that there are clips of many different influencers available for us to clip here and put them in. VO2max is the strongest predictor of survival. People have been saying that. People have been saying that. And look, there's data here. The Manceger study in 2018, 122,000 subjects found that elite cardiorespiratory fitness, the top 2.3% for VO2max correlated with an 80% reduction in mortality risk compared to the lowest VO2max. And there is no ceiling for these benefits. That's important. It seems like as you continue to go up and up and up in cardiorespiratory fitness, the risk, particularly from cardiovascular disease, seems to go down. So generally speaking, you could say more cardio equals more better. And I'd be fine with that. But historically, Strength has been like a secondary to that. And I think even on some of our older podcasts, we've said, look, if you're listening to this podcast, if you're a barbell medicine podcast listener, you're probably doing enough for strength. But that's gotten some new legs that maybe strength is even more important than even us, maybe the biggest promoters of strength training in the industry, especially for clinical outcomes. Maybe it's getting some new legs here. So this 2025 Clinomex data, about 4,000 people that they looked at, they showed a massive discrepancy between muscular power and muscular strength, where muscular power, relative muscular power, so relative to somebody's body weight, provided it nearly 20 times higher risk discrimination than strength when they analyze the data. Now why? Well, it's one, the way they tested these things, maximal muscle power was measured basically like an upright row. They pulled on a weight stack with a handle on it as fast as possible while they measured strength with a hand group test. And you're like, okay, which one would tie in multiple systems of the body in a way that is very predictive of badness happening? It's not going to be just you squeezing on something real hard. It's going to be you doing some sort of dynamic task that coordinates your body to move quickly and powerfully together. Now that being said, we talked about that on our last podcast about hand grip strength. It does seem like low muscular power imparts a very high risk of mortality from this study. They found that individuals with the lowest power production had a hazard ratio of up to 6.9, which if you're not familiar with hazard ratios, I'll give it to you in percentages. That's a 590% increased risk of death compared to those who are in the highest power group. Austin, do you think that power really is more predictive than strength or it's just the way that's being tested in a research study like this? Probably some element to both. It does strike me that power is probably a really good integrator to your point, similar to the way that VO2max might be a good integrator of the full cardiorespiratory pathway from the oxygen molecule coming into your lungs from the environment to getting delivered to the tissue and metabolized. It integrates things at many levels there. Then similarly, power integrates the entire neuro-musculoskeletal apparatus in a sense, a little bit better than strength. It may even be a little bit more of a leading indicator of disease and decline because it does tend to decay more than strength does. The magnitude of effect that we're observing here may be a little bit more impacted by that method measurement because of how poor hand grip strength is, but I think that the relationship is very plausible to me. I buy that. If you tell me, for example, somebody is able to pick your elite VO2max performance metric of choice and you tell me that somebody has it, I'm like, okay, I feel really good in general about their cardiorespiratory fitness level, whether it's by purely VO2max or a performance metric. Similarly, if you said that their power, whether given to me in terms of power units, or you told me that this person can power snatch 315 pounds, I'm like, yeah, I think they're good. I don't really need to know too much else about them. Right? Yeah. No, that's a good point. Yeah. Would you feel similarly as confident, 300-pound power snatch was crazy. Right? Share like, hey, they got a four times body weight leg press. Yeah. I think the power snatch tells me more. Now, there are still other metrics that I would need to know about them, for example, because it's like, hey, what's their waist measurement though? What's the resting blood pressure? Both the hip and the hip. Yeah, it's not the only metric. Right? But in so far as we're in this realm of muscular performance, for example, yeah, the snatch tells me more than the leg press, I think. Yeah. Leg press more than the hand grip strength, but maybe the power snatch even more. Right. Yeah. Now, here's where things get interesting. You look at these two massive data sets side by side, the numbers are telling. Two to max, a jump from the bottom of the pack to the elite top 2% resulted in an 80% reduction in the risk of premature death. But if we put that in reverse, if you have elite cardio and you lose it, this same data set would suggest that your risk of death doesn't just double, it increases by over 400%. Now, if we compare that to the Clinomex findings on muscle power, they found that individuals with the lowest power category had a 590% increased risk of death compared to the high power group. If we just look at these two data sets, this means that while we have this power, we have historically called the O2 max the ultimate predictor, perhaps muscle power may actually provide a higher risk thoughts. That's an interesting argument. I have no other thoughts beyond that at this time. Yeah, same. Same. Now, okay. So how about some targets here? So let's start off with elite targets for conditioning. And this is going to vary by age, by sex. There's also some thought that ethnicity also matters and things of that nature. But just generally speaking, if you're a man aged 30 to 45, we want your VO2 max greater than 56 mils per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max test. Or it's like a field test. If you went for a one and a half mile run, you could do it faster than nine minutes and 30 seconds. For a woman in this age demo, it's 48 milliliters per kilogram per minute for a VO2 max and a one and a half mile run faster than 11 minutes. And then as we age, these things change. So 45 to 75, if you're a man, a VO2 max of 48 and a one and a half mile run of less at less than 11 minutes for that. And for women in that age demographic, it's a VO2 max greater than 38 and a one and a half mile run less than 13 and a half minutes. So those are some ways to maybe to assess your VO2 max and see how you stack up compared to the elite in at least that data set we were referencing. Now elite targets for strength and power are not quite as clean. There's not a lot of real data here, especially using dynamic strength like a squat, a bench press, or even like a leg press. In fact, there's really only one data set and it's only in dudes from the Cooper Institute. Basically they looked at leg press, one rep max and chest press, one rep max and then kind of saw how they're, you know, what risk of mortality did they have over the next period of time. It looked like for dudes, if they had a leg press of one rep max of greater than twice their body weight and about 1.6 to two times their body weight for women, we're extrapolating that data obviously, that that seemed to be put them in the elite sort of strength category. For chest press, it was one and a half times body weight for men and one times body weight for women. Again, noting that this is only data in men and is one study, it's a lot of caveats here. And that's probably best suited for individuals below the age of 50, whereas when we get older, things are going to change again, just like they did with the VO2 max. And so again, made up numbers, I think having a leg press one rep max of like 1.5 times body weight for men or higher or 1.2 times body weight or higher for women, that's a reasonable target. And then for the chest press, it'd be body weight. So one times body weight for men and maybe 0.6 times body weight for women. You could also use relative hand grip strength. And to the extent there's data on strength and like longevity, there's way more data here than there is on like dynamic strength tests. So for example, we know that for every five kilograms increase in absolute grip strength, that's associated with about 10 to 15% reduction in all cause mortality risk. For most adults, a 10% gain in hand grip strength translates to about 3 to 5 kilos improvement in hand grip strength, which places folks into a lower risk category. The biggest improvements, however, we see are people going from low hand grip strength to normal hand grip strength. There's some improvement from normal to even more trained. Now, this is speculative because as we mentioned in our hand grip strength test that relative hand grip strength is probably a better marker, mainly because it corrects for the obesity paradox. We know that the single biggest predictor of somebody's hand grip strength is how much lean body mass they're carrying and individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass. So if we compare this to somebody's body weight, so kilos they're able to produce, you know, force wise on a hand grip strength test to their kilos of body weight, we can come up with a ratio. So the average in the population right now is about 0.55 to 0.6 for men and 0.40 to 0.45 for women. And so for thinking about elite targets, right, what's that top sort of cohort? Let's add 10%. Again, admittedly speculative, but yeah, I'm showing my work. You have to start somewhere. So for men, this would be a target range of 0.61 to 0.66 for relative hand grip strength and for women, a target range of 0.44 to 0.50. Again, they are speculative, but I think if someone, you know, gunned in my head, hey, what are some strength metrics I should be monitoring or targeting to make sure that somebody's getting the most out of their exercise program, better than nothing, I think, although I'd like to see that validated because maybe it is better than nothing. Maybe exercise just works so damn well that we don't need these targets. It would be nice if that were the case, but I do not think that it is quite that special. So I agree that giving some general, even if speculative guidance here is better than nothing, but yeah, worthy of further study. Yeah, so that's strength, which most people measure by low velocity force production, one rep max, stuff like that, or in this case, a hand grip strength test, an isometric test. But what about power? There are tests of grip strength power, how quickly you close the thing and with what force, but maybe a more practical example would be like a vertical jump. And there's some data out there showing that a vertical jump of greater than 10 inches in men and greater than eight inches in women would put them into like an elite power category based on normative data we have of people in their 50s and 60s. I'm thinking about if I had a 60-something year old who's relatively untrained and they came in the gym, am I testing their vertical jump? Maybe. It depends on your eyeball test when they walk in, right? How do they walk in? What is their, you're already paying attention to their gate speed and how they move and things like that to make that kind of a decision. There are some who might surprise you and then others where it's like you can tell just by the way they move that, yeah, this is not wise. Yeah. Yeah. So those are some targets for like strength, cardiovascular fitness and power. And I think another thing we need to add here is progress, right? So we have some of these KPIs, but we also need to make sure the person's getting stronger, getting fitter because getting stronger works better. Got two recent systematic reviews that found a dose response relationship between strength gain and improvements in both resting blood pressure and hemoglobin A1c. So how your blood sugar has been doing for the past few months. In both reviews, the subjects that gained the most strength reduced their blood pressure and their hemoglobin A1c by greater amounts compared to those who didn't improve as much in their strength or who did so to a smaller degree. We think that there are overlapping mechanisms here contributing both to strength and health improvements, mostly mediated by the MTOR pathway and myokines. These are little hormones that your muscles produce when you use them, which seems to interfere with or otherwise reduce inflammatory pathways. This is an area of active research at the moment. Similarly, we also know that improving the O2 max works better from exercise compared to an exercise plan where you don't actually gain cardiovascular fitness. Similar to the data on strength, large-scale studies such as the heritage family study and subsequent analyses demonstrate a clear relationship between the size or magnitude of the cardiorespiratory adaptation and health outcomes. Individuals who exhibited the largest increases in VO2 max experienced the most significant improvements in their metabolic health markers. So things like insulin sensitivity, lipid profiles, vascular function, whereas non-responders, those who performed the prescribed exercise but saw little to no change in their cardiorespiratory fitness, well, they showed significantly reduced improvements in these clinical markers. And for this, we think that the health benefits are intrinsically tied to the actual physiological adaptation rather than just the time spent exercising, probably mediated through amkinease because that's the major sort of pathway involved in cardiorespiratory fitness. Yes, so if we had to come up with some barbell medicine physical activity guidelines for longevity, I think we'd move past the resistance train twice a week and the due conditioning for 150 minutes at minimum for a week. To me, that's like the floor, not the ceiling. And for longevity, I think that people need to exercise more, probably more than they want to or even can in the modern environment. So for aerobic training, I think my target would be moving away from 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity conditioning per week, but more towards 300 to 600 minutes. Now, that is admittedly a lot. Admittedly, it is. And at this volume, I think training intensity and how you distribute that matters. So the majority of this work should be done in the 60 to 80% range for max heart rate where you can speak comfortably but not sing. A smaller portion, maybe up to a quarter of the total amount of conditioning that you're doing, should be done at higher intensities where speaking at all is difficult. And you should monitor performance to make sure that you're making progress related to your cardiorespiratory fitness, such as objectively testing your VO2 max or testing your one and a half mile run. And for resistance training, two to three days a week of lifting weights is the minimum. That usually represents about two hours per week for most folks who are not listeners to the parbo medicine podcast. But for longevity, many individuals will need more training perhaps another hour or two. And this can be split up into as many sessions as the individual prefers. The weights that are being moved should be challenging, but not maximal for most exercise. So something like two to four repetitions left in reserve, they should be hard, not maximal. And the exercises selected should target all of the major muscle groups of the body with user preference being the primary factor when it comes to specific exercise selection. Importantly, strength progress should be monitored to ensure the maximum return on investment when it comes to time spent exercising. And we detailed some of those. Now, Austin, to me, these seem like a sort of like treat to target strategy when it comes to exercise. What do you think about that? Yeah, I like the idea. It's something that, you know, reminds me of phrases that we used around blood lipids back in the day, which went away for a while and then kind of have come back to some extent in certain circles and same with kind of blood pressure of thinking about adjusting treatments to a particular target that is most clearly causally and or associated with lower risk of complications. So I think it's a reasonable way to go about this as with the drug therapies and those sorts of things relating to blood cholesterol, blood pressure, etc. where we had stronger outcome data, it would be nice to have the same here. But I like the idea of setting some kind of a target and tinkering and iteratively modifying and adjusting to try to get where you're trying to go. Yeah. So if you're doing the work, but your benchmarks are not moving, we don't want to label you, but it seems like you may be non responsive to that specific dose and formulation of exercise. And in that case, we don't want to keep doing the same thing. We should adjust the prescription just like you would with medications. But that adaptation doesn't happen in a vacuum. If we're moving the goalposts from generic activity to these sort of elite performance targets that we associate with health, we have to address the most contested topic in the longevity and recovery communities, dietary protein. We're essentially caught between two competing biological realities. On the one side, you have the argument that high protein, especially that from animal sources, is like stepping on the gas pedal for aging by over activating growth pathways like mTOR and IGF-1. And then on the other side, we have this frailty trap. We're losing muscle mass and power is a much more immediate threat to your independence than theoretical cellular signaling. Between these arguments and the recent changes to the dietary guidelines that have raised the target protein intake, the question is how much protein should people be eating for longevity? So Austin, before we get into some of the science, how would you even go about answering this question? A lot of it would depend on the person I'm talking to and trying to kind of meet them where they're at in both their level of understanding, knowledge, what their goals are and what they're trying to accomplish. There are going to be those who come from a background of either relatively little knowledge or purely from the all I've read everything in the world around the longevity space. And so I'm coming in with a bias towards protein restriction, in which case we might need to discuss like, oh, there's actually some potential benefits to consuming some dietary protein, particularly in a supportive role for the resistance exercise that we just went into great detail on to support the adaptations that we're looking for there. And then we may also, and more likely in our context, have somebody coming in who is coming from the strength and power athlete world, bodybuilding, etc. who is trying to consume very, very large amounts of dietary protein in many cases more than they might actually need. I think that both of us would retain some skepticism that that level of intake would be necessarily actively harming them in many situations, but the level that they actually require is probably less than they think, and they may actually derive some benefit through smart substitutions with other types of food sources. And so, you know, it really that as with many of these kinds of patient level conversations, it's just individualized based on who I'm talking to. As far as answering this question on the scientific level, that's like another whole kind of question here that is not really our niche of like, how would I go about designing a research study to answer this question? Because then you have to start out by defining like, well, how are we defining longevity? And then going through the whole process of setting up a nutritional epidemiological study, which is, yeah, I would defer to our friend Dr. Flanagan to help us with that kind of thing. Yeah, that still doesn't absolve us from answering the question, you know, do we need to lower our protein targets or raise them? And so, I think we should look at some data and just see the arguments on both sides and maybe we can come to some sort of agreement or consensus here. All right, so the argument for lower protein, the case for protein restriction is built on the nutrient sensing pathway known as MTOR. So you eat a bunch of dietary protein, this pathway sort of kicks off and it is an anabolic pathway. And if you're a lifter, you're familiar with this because you're like, yeah, when I lift weights, it does the same pathway too. You're very concerned with your MTOR related signaling. But advocates of a lower protein diet argue that chronic activation of this growth pathway via high amino acid, high protein intake, especially from leucine rich animal sources, accelerates cellular deterioration or senescence. Now this view is backed by significant rodent data where low protein diets consistently lead to longer lifespans in controlled environments. And proponents of this view suggest that the higher IGF-1, so insulin like growth factor 1, that those levels, particularly during middle age, are the primary driver of cancer and metabolic dysfunction. From this perspective, the modern high protein diet is a biological mismatch for long-term cellular health. And for reference, most adults in the United States are eating a decent amount of protein. It's about 88 grams of protein per day or about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now again, there's a lot of variation here. That's the average. Austin, what do you think about the idea that adults should be eating less protein to live longer? Based on what has been laid out here so far, I take kind of multiple issues with this. The first is that living longer itself is in my mind an incomplete goal, like living longer at all costs. And so there is a threshold beyond which there would actually start to be costs from further and further protein restriction. The other is that this argument so far is based predominantly on mechanistic type arguments, which I think as we've laid out before, you and I are both a little bit reticent to adopt in our clinical recommendations with great confidence. It might be something that comes up in our conversations, but is heavily caveated and tempered when it is based purely on mechanistic evidence. And the last reason is that protein is not one thing. And I suspect that the effects of the actual foods themselves is probably of greater significance, like everything that comes in the whole food source that you are consuming, rather than the fact that you are consuming an amino acid or a chain of amino acids in particular. Yeah, I think that's well said. And I think what we dive into some of this research on higher protein intakes and how does that correlate, this will start to kind of reveal itself. So there is a 2020 BMJ meta-analysis of 31 prospective studies that found protein, total protein intake, is associated with a lower cause mortality. But this is primarily driven by plant sources. So what they found  and as a result of that, people with higher total protein intake, they had a lower risk of premature death, provided that that protein was coming mostly from plants. So for every 3% increase in calories from plant protein, that correlated with a 5% reduction in the risk of premature mortality. It's thought that plant protein signals or may signal longevity more effectively because it typically results in a lower IGF-1 level than animal protein, particularly in sedentary individuals. There's also this weird kind of signal in the data that's related to age, something this transitioned between middle age and older age. So for adults aged 50 to 65, higher protein intake, 20% or more of calories, that was associated with a 4-fold increase in cancer mortality. These were mostly sedentary individuals who are not talking about lifters who are protein maxing, for example, and there is a risk of dietary pattern confounding. Basically means like, what else are you eating and where's this protein coming from? It's not plant-based, it's more animal and processed food, for example. It does seem to disappear with more plant protein intake. But then it shifts for adults over the age of 65, high protein intake is associated with reduced cancer and all cause mortality. Maybe acting as like a protective factor against frailty if you were thinking about sarcopenia risk, for example. So Austin, do you think that this age-related change in proteins effects are due to maybe developing anabolic resistance and subsequent sarcopenia risk or it's just like an artifact of the data set and it's just noisy? Yeah, I think it's super noisy. I do not have confident conclusions here. And so I think it's honestly a waste of time for me to speculate a ton on this because this whole body of literature is really complex and nuanced to interpret even though at the same time the conclusions that we tend to draw and how that informs our recommendations is not nearly as complex. I think that for me, if anything, over the years my protein recommendations for folks have been revised downward. And I think that that's emerged from a transition from a focus on optimizing kind of musculoskeletal adaptations without really much consideration for much else and also the fact that a decade ago our understanding and the body of evidence was more limited compared with where we are now to now having more data to inform these things, having a better kind of fund of knowledge around it and then other considerations as well. So now I tend to much more often recommend falling somewhere north of 1.2 grams per kilo and I tend to bias it much more predominantly towards plant-based sources and that also reflects my own dietary pattern, especially in recent years. I think that we have seen compelling evidence that when people are consuming protein at this dose range of say somewhere in the range of 1.2 to 1.6 grams per kilo per day, even if the vast majority of it is coming from plant-derived protein sources, they can get very similar if not equivalent musculoskeletal adaptations. They get tons of other health benefits. Those protein sources also tend to come with decent amounts of dietary fiber and other kind of like beneficial plant-based bioactives and things like that. And so that is kind of where things have landed. I do not personally eat a diet that is entirely exclusionary of certain animal-derived food products, particularly dairy as a very common source in my own diet, but others may obviously weigh and make these decisions differently. But that's been, I think, the predominant kind of shift over the over the years in terms of my recommendations and conclusions from the available evidence, even though some of these like little nuances and like interesting quirks and age-related variations, I don't really know what to make of it at this time. I'm more just looking at like straight up just outcome data, like to the extent that we have them and then just realizing this whole field is much more complex when people say, oh, this singular factor does X. I'm like, you sure? That's pretty challenging. So I think right now my recommendations on protein, I don't know that they're any different than they were a year ago, two years ago. If anything, I'm more tolerant of an even lower intake. Like if I was a hard line, 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Yeah. Okay. If it's 1.2, like it's fine. Yeah. Absolutely. And I think mainly when people are thinking about protein maxing, particularly those who are not training, I think I could maybe, maybe guess that there are some benefits. Like, okay, if you're increasing protein intake and you're displacing previously like ultra processed foods with now more minimally processed or unprocessed protein sources, that's probably a net win from an energy intake perspective. Otherwise, I think if you were otherwise eating like mostly chicken breast and fish and eggs and dairy and whatever, and they're like, should I lower my protein intake? I'm like, eh, or should I raise my protein intake? I'm like, probably not. Yeah. If anything, you could take some of that protein and allocate it towards plant-based sources. You get like a double whammy one, more plant-based food in general, likely to be better, more fiber, generally better. For people that are not eating that much protein and are like, should I increase my protein? I'm like, yeah, but probably do it through plant-based sources if you can. Yeah. Otherwise, I just don't find this particularly interesting. I'm like, it's part of this larger dietary pattern that's much more concerning to me compared to, you know, is it 1.2? Is it 1.4? Is it 1.6? Is it 1.8? And look, if you are a highly competitive, you know, strength athlete, physique athlete or whatever, I understand that this whole that you don't care. Like you just probably turned the podcast off, but if you still happen to be listening, I also don't know that there's a risk of eating that much protein. I really, I truly don't, particularly with that sort of dietary pattern. Yeah. You're probably eating a lot of vegetables, we hope. You're probably not eating a lot of ultra processed foods and the energy intake is likely correct for your goals. And so this isn't meant to mean like you shouldn't eat as much protein. I'm not trying to fear a monger. I just think like we probably went a little too far. Yeah. I mean, but the thing is you still hear this from a lot of folks and influencers out there and certain social media personalities who are like, look, you must consume an extremely high dose of protein. Otherwise, you're going to have no chance of building sufficient muscle or you're going to be at very high risk of sarcopenia. And it's like, none of those things are true when you get above this like modest level, because the context of comorbid disease and your physical activity are way more important variables when it comes to your muscle outcomes compared with whether you're consuming 1.2 or 1.6, or if you go up to 2.2 or 3.1 or any of those sorts of things. I think that like we're kind of shifting this to put it in its appropriate level of waiting in the, if you're going to care about like musculoskeletal health, like the risk of sarcopenia for most people is not like off the charts high compared with the risk of like cardiovascular disease, much higher risk, right? And so, you know, even just by doing a modest amount of physical training, you can avert the risk of sarcopenia, even if you were consuming a relatively lower protein diet, you'd be fine from that standpoint. Whereas the converse is not true. If you cranked up your dietary protein, but you were like completely physically, you know, inactive or insufficiently active, I'd be more worried about that person. And so we're kind of waiting these things a little bit more appropriately, I think at this point in time for what are the actual risks that we're being faced with and what are the outcome data that we have available to us to inform those things rather than like this chain of either mechanistic reasoning or reasoning that ignores the outcome data to say, you need protein for muscles, more protein is better, animal protein is the most bio available, therefore like eat all the, you know, ribeye in the world. And it's like, yeah, that breaks apart at multiple levels along the way. Yeah. Yeah. Well said. All right. Well, when we come back from this break, we're going to talk about the most potent peptide that's trending on TikTok. Oh, God. If he wants. All right. So we are back and we're talking again about the most popular peptide on TikTok, but this is different than what the rest of the influencers are talking about. This one actually has a bunch of good evidence that it does interesting things. And perhaps it is a longevity drug. Cloaked in obesity treatments, clothing, you've heard about the weight loss and you may have even heard about the sleep apnea benefits, but do you know how these medications affect the heart, the kidneys, the brain and potentially more? Now Austin, you work with a lot of people who are taking these medications. Has anyone ever come to you requesting a prescription purely for longevity benefit? Yeah. So I would, yeah, many, many, many hundreds, probably even getting into the well over a thousand plus folks on these medicines that I've accrued at this point. And the number of people who are looking at this purely through a longevity lens is pretty small. I will say non-zero a couple. And those really are relating to one of a small handful of conditions that they're most worried about, but a lot of times it is relating to hypothetical neuro protective benefits. Because I think that, you know, the management and risk reduction for cardiovascular disease at this point is pretty well established. How we go about that, ensuring good metabolic health and blood pressure, lipid control, insulin sensitivity, physical activity, all those kinds of things. And fortunately, many of those same things have benefits across numerous other organ systems to include the brain, but that neurodegenerative disease, you know, is a tough nut to crack in terms of our ability to prevent and mitigate morbidity and certainly premature death as a result of its complications. So that's actually been an area where I've had a handful of patients that I can think of off the top of my head inquire about. It's not one where I have a large body of evidence that I can stand on and say, yes, this, these drugs or even like micro dosing, which is another common question around them, that that will confer that degree of benefit. But it's an interesting conversation to have. Many of these folks, as you can imagine, 10 towards that like health maximizer, optimizer, get tons of data, things like that end of the spectrum. Yeah, that makes sense. Now, I think, you know, if we're steel manning the other side of that argument, we're going to set maybe the risks of muscle loss aside. I feel like we have pounded that into the ground. We beat that horse. We're going to talk about it again to be clear. Yeah, I think we should with some, some, some new listeners here as an overblown thing, but go on. We'll set that aside for now. But I think, you know, maybe many people in the general public think of, um, drugs like wegovy and that bound and, you know, whatever they're going to call retachritide, thinking about these drugs, they're just obesity medications. And so the extent that we're seeing these knock on benefits on whether it's cardiovascular disease, kidney health, perhaps even cognitive benefit, whatever, longevity, just more generally speaking, well, it's just due to managing the weight. That's, that's the, you know, and then there's this high collateral cost of sarcopenia. It's the muscle loss. It all comes down to muscle loss. And the first thing I should say is none of these studies so far are directly looking at muscle tissue. They're looking, um, at lean mass and fat mass. So effectively anything that is not fat is considered lean mass. So that's water, bone, any sort of protein, asius protein paste thing in, in your body, which certainly includes, but it's not limited to just skeletal muscle. And so when we look at what would be maybe like a predicted loss or predicted composition of weight loss. You look at dietary interventions alone. So just calorie restriction and on average for every pound or a unit of weight that people lose about 75% of it will be fat mass and 25% will be not fat mass. Some of that is muscle, but certainly not all of it is actual skeletal muscle tissue. That would be our sort of like line in the sand, like do GLP ones do way worse than that, uh, for example. And it doesn't really appear. So on average. Yes. The step one trial initially that was the sort of like, wow, they're losing 40% lean mass for, for unit weight loss, but no study since that has shown that, that proportion. So it does seem to be a little outlier. Again, you look at the lifestyle only group there and their lean mass losses in that step one trial and you're like, okay, it seems maybe like a measurement issue or a population issue or something else. But again, if this signal was reliable and robust, you'd see it every single time. And we just don't. So that's, that's thing one, uh, thing two, what you would expect is, okay, if these people lose, uh, weight, right? And they tend to lose more weight with these anti obesity medications. Um, and so then therefore they're losing way more muscle. That would be your prediction. Then you would predict at the end of the study, if they were to check strength, functional status, anything like that, those would also be decreased. They would have a worse hand grip strength. They'd have a worse sit to stand. They would have worse walking speed. And this was actually tested in the semoline study. And in fact, despite no exercise or at least programmed exercise during the year long study, it got better. The people who would have been diagnosed with sarcopenia, they were, was reduced. Their muscle quality improved. And so while their muscle cross sectional area may have gone down, we think maybe they lost some intramuscular fat, for example, other sort of things that don't really contribute to the muscle actually functioning or maybe in fact corrected by administration of these, uh, these medicines. Um, and then the third part of this is like your, the, this concern around too much muscle loss comes down to the fact that people will bypass some sort of threshold where they were previously functional. Now they've lost enough muscle mass, then their function has been decreased. They're starting from a higher point anyway. They have more muscle as is you compare an individual with obesity to a lean counterpart, you know, similar, um, activity levels, uh, not withstanding. Uh, they have way more muscle. Okay. It's just it's not, it's not really compared. You can't really compare them. Um, does the muscle work as well? Generally, generally not, but they just have more of it. And so there, it's such, there's so far removed for being at risk for sarcopenia due to carrying too little muscle mass and sarcopenia. Again, it's not just the loss of muscle mass. It's the loss of muscle function. It doesn't really register to me. It's probably like a real risk, like an individual with obesity, who's appropriately prescribed this medication and monitored. It's just doesn't seem like a real risk. I think it's overblown. 100% agree. Yes. I'm inclined to agree. I also think that part of the conversation has been muddied by the fact that nobody actually, a lot of the people making these arguments don't really understand the differences. In terms of the terminology used around body composition analysis. So they'll be a lean body mass or fat free mass or, you know, muscle mass. These are all different things. They're not the same thing. Um, there is the water element. There is non muscle tissue that is also present in muscle, what is being measured and assumed to be muscle mass. That is the fat that's in there that can interfere with muscle quality. And so conflating all these terms into one thing and then saying, oh, people are hemorrhaging 40% of their muscle mass. And then turning, you know, conflating that with the idea that these people are developing sarcopenia left and right and that they're dying prematurely as a result. It's like, these are, these are like logical triple jumps that you're making from one to the other, um, compared with what we actually observe in reality. Yeah. The last part, and this is, uh, this is more of just another annoyance that happens when you spend too much time on the internet, particularly on social media, where you see talking head clips like this, you may be watching people claim, well, look, obesity is really just a risk of undermuscle. It's undermuscled. And so the risk of losing that muscle far outweighs the benefits of losing fat mass. And that is completely opposite to what all of the evidence shows us. Again, not only do individuals with obesity tend to carry more muscle than their lean counterparts, but the muscle is not as protective as the fat is risky. Yes. We do prefer if you had, if you were an individual with obesity, we would prefer that you also are carrying a lot of muscle mass, but it's most important for you to not necessarily gain more muscle, but it's actually to lose the fat. Um, if you were open to, to weight management at that time. Yes. Agree. I think that, uh, that is accurate and, um, should be foot stomped a bit more, especially when we again find ourselves in these arguments with people. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe the, the, just to tie it all together, like, why do people care? They're like, well, look, I would never take these drugs personally. And I would never recommend them to other folks, uh, either because you should just do it through diet and exercise. One, it's better. You know, we don't have this risk of muscle loss too. Uh, you know, there's no shortcuts in life. And you get these better habits, all these sorts of things. How does that strike you? I'm looking at your face right now. And it's not rigged because I think that now, um, the threads algorithm just feeds me all of the GLP one rage bait that is out there. And that is what all of the things that you just said are most of the things that I see and I have to disregard rather than engage with because it's, it's just deeply frustrating to, to hear and to listen to. So the first part of somebody said, I would never take one of those things. Like fine, nobody's, you know, you don't have to do it. Like nobody's, it's like perfectly okay to not, if you don't want to. As far as whether or not you would recommend it to somebody else, I may take some quibbles with that depending on like, what is your level of authority? What sort of patients are you advising? What are they coming to you for? Because are you a doctor? Whether you are advising or should be advising on anything is in question here. Um, and because if you are not going to advise their use, I have questions about your ability to interpret data here. Right. So if, for example, and this is a, a post that I have been like kind of drafting and editing in my mind for a long time that has yet to, to really bear fruit just yet, but let's say that these medicines were much more harmful than beneficial. Let's say that they dissolved all of your muscle mass and did not confer any benefits compared with, uh, you know, quote unquote natural weight loss by regular diet and exercise, things like that. If it had this like net harm effect, we have ample research in randomized trials at this point that should show us those effects. We should see from the multiple different lines of evidence across the numerous different agents, right? That, uh, these things are causing harm that more people are getting hospitalized. More people are falling fractures, premature death, all sorts of things. And the drugs get pulled from the market. There is not even a signal for that. Now that is not to say that these medicines are completely have no potential harm that they can be used carelessly, that they don't require monitoring. All of those things are in fact the case that there are potential downsides that should be weighed against potential benefits for the individual patient. There are dosage adjustments that need to be accounted for. There are, uh, monitoring that should be in place. And that is why these things require a, you know, care by a physician who knows what they're doing with these, with these, uh, medications, but those folks are not honest brokers of information or accurate interpreters of the evidence around it. They hear something about muscle and because maybe their whole world is fitness and muscle, then any effect on muscle that might not be the most favorable thing on earth is catastrophic. Well, fortunately, that's not the case. This is quantifiable. We see improvements in muscle quality. We see improvements in functional status again with, you know, typical use of these medicines for appropriately selected patients. It is possible to push people's weight loss way too far, but I almost never see that happening. Of course, I work in a practice where we are monitoring and paying attention to people and reassessing them when it comes time for refills and dose adjustments and things like that. But if you take somebody whose BMI is, uh, I don't know, 20 and you put them on a GLP one agonist and don't monitor them and their, their, uh, BMI ends up 16. Yeah. You probably didn't select your patient very well or there was not enough monitoring or something like that. But the idea that we're taking patients with clinical obesity and pushing them into sarcopenia, like left and right is not happening. I just need to be very clear about that in practice. And so if the argument is that the net harms are exceeding the net benefits or, you know, uh, that, that that's how this math shakes out, the evidence should show it. Otherwise you are alleging that there is a widespread, multi-center, multi-randomized trial, multi-researcher conspiracy happening to where they are all colluding to generate ample amounts of favorable outcome data across numerous organ systems, numerous disease states, numerous patient populations, numerous countries around the world. It's kind of, you know, not super plausible. Well, Rockefeller controls all of this. So that's, that's what happened. Now the truth about GLP one receptor agonist and their ilk is that the way the evidence suggests they provide protection, uh, for a lot of different things that seem to be weight independent or at least have some weight independent effects, especially when it comes to the heart and the kidneys, although there's some more interesting data emerging related to inflammation, potentially some cognitive benefits and even just longevity more broadly speaking. So with respect to the heart, the select trial showed that in 17,000 adults with preexisting heart disease, but not, uh, but without diabetes, uh, some agglutide reduced major cardiac, uh, events by 20%. And here's what's interesting. Cause if you were like a, yeah, oh, this is just because of obesity management. Yeah. The benefit appeared almost immediately before significant weight loss had occurred. Like these sort of risk factors had decreased and there was like a direct cardio protective effect, which to me is like, interesting. Like what's, what else is this just an inflammation thing? Right. Cause people say that about statins too. They're like, well, statins work by decreasing inflammation, not lower in cholesterol. I was like, well, two things can be true. Like we can be seen a benefit from obesity reduction and also a benefit from like, uh, inflammation control or even something else. We don't even know what we're looking at. I don't know how do you do the select trial? Yeah. I similarly to other areas we've talked about on this podcast, I'm focused on the outcome and the outcomes being in a net favorable direction is where I hang my hat. It's a good thing that we see improvement in cardiovascular risk by whatever mechanism here. It would be unsurprising to me if there is a fraction, potentially a large fraction of that mediated by weight related benefits. But also some that are weight independent. That is not surprising to me. That is, you know, that would not be a novel sort of thing as you are alluding to here. One of the other areas where it's really interesting that I'm observing this more and more in the, in my patient population, our patients with inflammatory conditions. Um, and things like osteoarthritis and psoriatic arthritis and, and endometriosis and PCOS and things like that, who have this kind of like generalized inflammatory state and potentially some musculoskeletal aches and pains is improvements in those pains, uh, nearly immediately upon initiation of the medicine before, uh, substantial weight loss has occurred. And, uh, to preempt a little bit of a caveat there that I would make to myself is like, I'm not priming them to expect improvement in pain or, or, uh, you know, purporting this or putting it forth as a potential treatment for that. It's almost more of like an incidental observation that they're not necessarily, uh, expecting unless they have been primed elsewhere. But that it's, it's another interesting thing that suggests that there are likely to be some, um, non-weight related, uh, mechanisms of benefit from these agents. Yeah. We saw that in the triumph for study. That's the phase three clinical trial on retachrytide. It was originally on, um, osteoarthritis and like, you know, pain scores. We saw a massive reduction there, but also some, also weight loss too. So like, you know, you're like, is this mostly related to the weight loss? Is it mostly related to some other sort of mechanism? Can it be both? Yeah. Yeah. To your point, mechanisms, interesting fodder for around the campfire at the, at the pub, but ultimately are the outcomes good? And what are the risks? Um, there was actually another paper by one of our favorites friend of the front of the show, Dr. Speakman. I don't know if you saw this. It was basically a mechanistic study, uh, looking at how, um, some agglutide affected condro sites. Those are like these, the cells and the various tissues around the joint and, uh, favorable changes there with, so perhaps that is mediating in effect, not just inflammation, not just weight loss, perhaps some actual like cell level, um, activity going on there. Yeah. The idea of cartilage regrowth has been like the aspirational goal of like orthopedics, uh, for decades now. And, uh, there was a signal that that might actually be happening. I don't actually know how that would happen, but, um, you know, I'm glad there are smart people trying to figure that out. Yeah. Well, look, if you were a BPC person or a TB-500, uh, peptide person, you'd say, well, that's, that's what these peptides do. And it's like, interesting if true, where's the data in humans? And they're like, Oh, it doesn't exist. Like, okay. So anyway, we do have this data in humans. Right. Uh, yeah. So maybe, maybe just replace the BPC with the, the Terzepita. Anyway, um, so we talked about osteoarthritis. We talked about heart disease. Uh, we've mentioned before that there's some good evidence on, um, reducing, um, kidney disease, uh, the flow trial here, uh, with some agulotide reduce the risk of major kidney disease by, uh, events by 24% in patients with type two diabetes and chronic kidney disease. So you would expect that vulnerable population to see the biggest benefit. Any, uh, you want to take a stab or a predict prediction on how this would work on individuals who maybe are at risk for chronic kidney disease, perhaps they have a high blood pressure, for example, like the medication might help. Yeah. I think that, uh, the lower the patient's absolute risk is at baseline, the less likely they are to have benefit, or at least the harder it would be to show it. Um, and, and so like, if somebody is at elevated, but still low overall absolute risk of developing this, you would have to have a massive study for a really long time, uh, to, to show a substantial improvement in that risk. But it also depends on like, what does that at risk mean? So if it is, you know, due, you know, if they have a history of high blood pressure, then maybe that's indicative of, do they have, uh, you know, some metabolic disease that itself would increase the risk of developing chronic kidney disease. Yeah, I would expect some benefit. It would probably be modest at that stage. It's just easier to show bigger effects in people with bigger levels of risk, uh, compared with those with smaller levels of risk. So I would expect that if you had a sufficiently powered trial, you might find a signal, it might not be earth shattering, um, for people who are that early, uh, but I would expect to see one nonetheless. Yeah. And for our longevity maxers or health maxers, if you will, there's actually a new study that recently was published showing that, um, a year of GLP one therapy can actually reduce the grim age clock. If you remember back to the biological clock, this is one of the second generation clocks that we were talking about. So actually changes the DNA methylation that is picked up on that test. To the extent, again, that affects outcomes. You know, we need some better mortality data, for example, to really, uh, correlate that, but look, it's not nothing. It's that seems pretty interesting to me now. And, and, and the, and the other thing I would add is again, not a signal for harm. Uh, right. Which who knows what the meaning of that potential beneficial signal is, even if it's a false positive and things are neutral, like cool, but we're not seeing signals of harm. And because that's the thing is, you know, in these frustrating conversations that I find myself trying to avoid more and more on, on the internet, it is often people kind of inappropriately waiting the relative benefits and, and potential risks of these medicines blowing theoretical or potential risks way out of proportion while underweighting the potential benefits, mainly by saying that, oh, you could instead just as easily lose this weight through diet and exercise, like if it were truly that easy, then sure, just do it. Right. But it is in fact, not that easy for the vast majority of people who are benefiting from these medicines. Otherwise, intensive lifestyle intervention, we have randomized trials on it. They would have shown, oh, like equivalent success rates, right? Um, in terms of clinically significant weight loss, that's able to be sustained as long as people are sustaining the intervention in the same way. That is not in fact what we observe. So, you know, uh, hard to know how to argue with folks, uh, in these situations. That's tough. Yeah. Uh, we should say it's not all rainbows and roses here. Uh, a few different studies have been published recently showing maybe not the effect we were thinking about when it came to these GLP one receptor agnus one had to do with that cancer risk reduction. This was a really hot topic, maybe like six months ago. It was like, look, we're seeing reduction in risk of all these various different types of cancer. And it's like, well, this is mediated by weight loss is mediated by something else doesn't really pan out outside of the obesity related risk that seems to be the case right now that may change in the future. But that was kind of a bummer. Yeah. Um, I don't have a ton of additional thoughts on this outside of, I think that proving cancer risk reduction, um, in this, uh, type of way, for example, if we do think it's going to be mediated by weight reduction, similarly going to need a really big study and it's probably going to need to run for a really long time to detect the signal. And so that an initial trial was negative, doesn't, you know, rule out this possibility for me entirely. It makes me less enthusiastic about it, but I still find that potential outcome plausible enough that I think a more strongly powered study or a longer duration study may show it. Now, what would that turn into on the back end? Let's say it did show something. Does that mean that we just put everyone on these medicines under the idea of, Hey, if you're just on it for long enough, then it might reduce your risk of cancer. I actually don't see it gaining like a FDA indication for like cancer prevention anytime in, you know, for, in the foreseeable future, but rather, again, it may be like another kind of quote unquote off target benefit in people who are otherwise appropriately selected for the use of these medicines. Yeah. And the last sort of a bummer here has to do with Alzheimer's, some other neuro degenerative disorders, the evoke trials were recently kind of published, basically showing that the GLP ones did not really slow the progression of established Alzheimer's disease. Now, reducing the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease in the first place or other other neuro degenerative conditions, that's a separate thing from actually like reducing the risk of progression. So we'll be interested to see how data pans out there. But yeah, look, we're not, we're not chilling for, for big pharma here. We're just, here's the data and like do with it what you will. I kind of like your approach to this. It's like, look, you asked me to be your consultant.  and I'm happy to do that. But ultimately what we decide to do is your decision. Yeah, and the evoke trials, my recollection of them was that it was actually looking at oral semagglutide, not any of the injectables, and it was using the ribelsis form, so like the older form of oral semagglutide, up to 14 milligrams, for patients with early Alzheimer's disease. So I have like kind of multiple issues with that, like in general Alzheimer's, like nothing really works for it. We have some medicines that are approved. But yeah, I don't really, for established Alzheimer's disease, yeah, the older medicines that have been around for a long time, trivial benefit. The newer medicines, I think we talked about some of those, the monoclonal infusions, I definitely don't love those. I'm not surprised that a like low potency, low efficacy agent like ribelsis didn't have a significant benefit in an exceedingly difficult to treat condition. I reserve some degree of, I wouldn't say optimism, but like there's still something there to be studied as far as, again, longer term, more potent agents, longer lead time, maybe for patients who have not yet developed it already, or even potentially more potent agents in people who have than something kind of crummy like oral, the ribelsis form compared with now more, our newer oral wigovi or any of the injectables or the increasingly potent options. But yeah, I would never be terribly optimistic about treatment of Alzheimer's disease, at least based on history to date. I don't know that we're likely to crack that nut anytime soon, but we'll see. Yeah. Yeah. So it seems like we've got some good signals in the evidence, but we don't really have any like 30 year trials showing that GLP-1 receptor agonists extend maximum human lifespan, but it does seem like there's something there with respect to health span, delaying the onset of disease, particularly in individuals with obesity. Are there any results or any sort of leads there that are more interesting to you than anything we've discussed so far, something that's coming out? I mean, I think that by far the most prevalent issue that we observe in the population is just this kind of constellation of actually now what's been termed CKM syndrome, where like cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome, obesity and its effects on all of these different organs, like instead of, hey, I'm gonna put you on medicines for your heart disease and then medicines for your kidney disease and then medicines for your fatty liver disease and then medicines for your diabetes. It's like we have something that is truly attacking like the root of this issue. And so that's where most of my optimism stands as like the biggest and most prevalent health problem leading to preventable morbidity and mortality kind of worldwide at the moment. We've talked about other kind of promising avenues in this space to include some of the ones that to whatever extent you worry about lean mass, they're all looking at these agents that are maybe combined agonists of things that will not only promote fat mass loss, but maybe accretion or gain of lean body mass or muscle mass. So like a jacked medicine, I think that the fitness industry would really lose its mind that kind of thing comes around. But essentially it would turn this into a solved problem if that kind of thing pans out. TBD, we'll see, that's an interesting idea for me. Yeah, yeah, I think I feel pretty confident saying that these are definitely good for longevity in those with obesity, type two diabetes, sleep apnea, particularly if that's a comorbidity and some forms of heart disease again, especially if they have obesity as a comorbidity. Possibly good for longevity in those without any of those conditions, unclear on evidence because mainly it hasn't been investigated in just generally healthy population. They're taking these at a whatever dose, let's see what happens. I feel confident that the sarcopenia risk is overstated when appropriately prescribed and monitored. I can think of a use case where things would get dicey. Thinking about a woman in her early 30s who's trying to lose like five pounds or something, doesn't resistance train a Pilates princess, getting some research chemicals in a DIY sort of situation, right? And it's like, sure, I don't think she's at risk of quote, sarcopenia, like full, you know, the actual diagnosis, but losing some precious muscle mass she didn't need to lose or couldn't really afford to lose. But yeah, if you use powerful agents inappropriately, like I don't know that that was really like a surprise, I guess. Yeah, tools have uses. I mean, that's the bottom line. All right, so that's the story on using GLP ones for longevity. We'll see how the data continues to evolve and change over time, particularly any notable effects that occur independent of weight loss. But there's another pharmacological lever that people often pull to protect the same muscle mass and cardiovascular health as they age, and it's arguably even more controversial. So we've spent this segment talking about the potential metabolic downside of aging, and now we need to look at the hormonal decline. Let's shift gears to the latest data on hormone replacement therapy and whether it actually moves the needle on cardiac risk. Now, Austin, there's a massive wave of fear that still surrounds hormone replacement therapy, or HRT, especially women, largely driven by a misunderstanding of 20-year-old data. You see patients every day who are interested in HRT. Now, are they curious because they heard about this on the news? Well, they removed the black box warning, it's good. Or, and if they are, do they express concerns about heart disease or breast cancer risks? Well, I think you're probably talking about the black box warning that was on, I believe, vaginal estrogen products. And most patients that I'm coming across are actually not terribly aware of that as a thing, nor is that really informing them seeking it. More often, the conversations around systemic kind of menopausal hormone therapy, that would be things like transdermal estradiol or oral forms of estrogen replacement, et cetera, that can provide benefit for a variety of other symptoms compared with local vaginal estrogen therapy, which is beneficial and essentially has no significant risks and can be used safely in pretty much everyone, which is a big reason why that black box warning was appropriately removed. But the concerns around things like heart disease risk, yeah, they go back decades at this point. And I think that if we are to do our own treatment of the data around the women's health initiative and the implications that had both at the time and for how we should use these therapies these days, certainly would benefit from its own podcast. But that was definitely a different era using different agents and also in a different context compared with the way that they're more often being used now. So what I mean is literally different formulations of the hormones and also in a population that in general was quite a bit older than a lot of the folks who are interested in pursuing menopausal hormone therapy these days among the women that I tend to see day to day in practice now who are interested in it for a variety of reasons. Now to be clear, the current kind of approved uses or indications of menopausal hormone therapy are only for a handful of things. It includes the vasomotor symptoms, so that's things like hot flashes and night sweats, et cetera. Those include the genitourinary syndrome of menopause, so vaginal atrophy, dryness, pain, recurrent UTIs, things like that. Then osteoporosis prevention or protecting bone health through the menopausal transition and beyond, although that benefit necessitates staying on therapy longer term, which is becoming an increasingly accepted practice. The evidence for benefits beyond those is increasingly slim, even though it is an area of lots of discussion and interest whether it comes to claims around prevention of cardiovascular disease or prevention of dementia or addressing other symptoms that can be associated with menopause like musculoskeletal aches and pains and improving sleep and mood disturbances. A lot of people claim benefits of these things. I do not push back or challenge them when they report experiencing these things. I more often frame it as people's experience as pretty individual here, and as long as it is being done safely, I'm very open to trying menopausal hormone therapy for women who may be going through the menopausal transition, whether in quote-unquote perimenopause or beyond it, as long as it is being done safely. There's a whole set of criteria that we use to assess patients and risk stratify them, determine whether they are candidates for therapy and if they are, which type is the safest because there are a bunch of different types, again, very different from the type that was originally studied a couple of decades ago in that original trial. Whether we're using transdermal or gels or creams or patches or orals or vaginal rings or all sorts of other methods of administration, I'm happy to talk about the pros and cons with people individually about those, as well as the other complementary hormones that may or may not need to be included as part of their regimen. So, in general, it's a hot topic. Lots of people are discussing it. I think that leaning too heavily on data from 20 plus years ago is not wise, and fortunately, things seem to be evolving at multiple levels with patients among clinicians and even at the level of the FDA, clearly, because they're paying attention to this and kind of modifying things as we go. Yeah, it is kind of interesting, as you mentioned, that 20-something year old women's health initiative. Yeah, it seemed like at the time that it would you increase the risk of blood clots, major cardiac events. That's what the data said, you know, you just you I got the studies are in the show notes, you just pull them up and it'll it'll stay right there in the in the in the in the conclusions. And yeah, it seemed like and you can correct me if I'm wrong. When researchers went back and kind of did this like subgroup analysis based on various certain age ranges in there, they didn't find that signal. In fact, they found like a cardiovascular disease like risk reduction in a certain cohort, like women aged 50 to 59 within 10 years of menopause. So like a 30 percent lower risk of heart attacks and death if they were in that trial. But that's not what the original data kind of like was how it was reported. And kind of an interesting shift. Do you think more people are going to end up on HRHRT now that this sort of like reversal? Oh, I think they should. I think that only a tiny fraction of women who are eligible to use menopausal hormone therapy are in fact using it. And there are tons of persistent fears about this. I encounter them regularly, in fact, had a woman recently who was still quite young in her forties, but she had for other reasons had to undergo surgery that removed her ovaries. So she was essentially put into what's called surgical menopause. And that is a situation that absolutely requires hormone replacement afterwards. Otherwise, an extremely high risk of osteoporosis developing. And she presumably because of maybe poor counseling, inadequate conversation from the clinician was afraid of getting cancer. So she didn't take the hormones. And then I'm kind of trying to, you know, nudge in the direction of, hey, we got to take a close look at your bone density. And this is something that really ought to be addressed. Because in a completely other context, I've seen women who are a couple of decades older in the hospital setting get admitted for multiple, you know, osteoporotic fractures. And when I take their history, they're like, yeah, I had my ovaries removed in my thirties and nobody ever put me on hormones. And here I am. And I'm like, this was 100 percent preventable. It's just decades too late. And so we know that there remains a lot of fear, a lot of stigma around the use of these things. It can be tricky to learn because this is not something that I would say that I received exceptionally thorough training in internal medicine residency. It's something that I had to kind of go out of my way to acquire additional training, education and experience in being able to use these things safely and to be able to counsel and discuss these risks on an individual basis. So it takes time and effort, but it is ultimately worthwhile to be able to guide people through this kind of like a major transition in life, mitigate their risk of unpleasant symptoms and also improve their longer term health outcomes. Yeah. Yeah. I also want to know, are you seeing some tie-ins with like the muscular skeletal system? You talked about bone density and risk of fracture and falls and stuff like that. But what about actual just like muscle function? Because the loss of muscle and menopause, it's not a testosterone problem. Estrogen withdrawal, estrogen is like this shield has to have to do with muscle cell, not just atrophy, but also just apoptosis and such. And so are you seeing like a signal there where people who are being placed on HRT, they're having better muscular function and stuff like that, or perhaps they're more apt to go to the gym, anything like that? Yeah. It's hard for me to draw confident conclusions about like a direct causation there. I think that in general, for example, let's say that there's a woman going through the perimenopausal and menopausal transition and their sleep is just wrecked from like, you know, drenching night sweats and hot flashes throughout the day. And they're exhausted during the day and that impacts motivation to exercise. And certainly if they're able to maybe limits their load tolerance, volume, tolerance, intensity, and so maybe, you know, if you address those symptoms and they're able to sleep better, rest better, recover better, then they're like more energized and motivated. And so there's like multiple different ways that you could impact the kind of final what we'll call the final common pathway to like muscle, hypertrophy and physical performance. And it's really difficult just like either anecdotally or on a patient by patient basis to draw confident conclusions from this. So this is something that would just require a larger scale research. And I do not feel like it would be appropriate for me to comment confidently on this, perhaps that is to our own detriment in the medical podcasting influencer space, whereas a lot of people would just spit out hot takes about this and say, well, here's what I observe. And then that becomes a source of, yeah, a lot of discussion, debate, interest, whatever. I would not claim a confident conclusions there. I think there's a lot of potential plausible mechanisms of benefit, but not sure. Yeah. Well, and it's not just about the ladies, but also there's some stuff on men here, particularly with respect to testosterone deficiency. Now we've talked at length about testosterone deficiency, low testosterone on this podcast, I expect we're going to talk about it more. We got a book talking about it like I can't get away from it. It's not possible. But there's some tie in here between low testosterone, testosterone deficiency and heart disease risk of major adverse cardiac events. Now we think that for most low testosterone and again, more appropriately named testosterone deficiency is frequently a symptom of it. The larger picture of what's going on health wise, not necessarily the cause, most notably due to obesity. That's been the biggest change. People talk about like this secular decline in testosterone. It's like, yeah, mostly related to obesity. Now, with respect to replacing somebody's testosterone and its effect on a cardiovascular health, there's a lot of interesting fodder around that. But when you look at the actual data, it seems like it's mostly neutral with respect to heart attacks and major adverse cardiac events. There's some signal that there's like this maybe metabolic paradox that occurs at the level like with respect to lipids. So like LDL goes down triglycerides, go down visceral fat, goes down all these risk factors for heart disease, but HDL cholesterol slightly goes down too. On with folks who are taking testosterone replacement therapy. And oh, by the way, there's no real outcome data like long term on this. How do you view, you know, testosterone replacement therapy in an individual with testosterone deficiency with respect to like cardiovascular disease trajectory? Yeah, I think we should look at the this from a few different angles. One is, well, the historical or more traditional perspective would be, oh, this significantly increases risk. And I think that we have increasing data that would challenge that position at this point that, again, when it is appropriately used and monitored, that we do not have evidence that it is, you know, causing people to drop from heart attacks left and right. That is fortunately not the case. So that side of the equation or of the curve is reassuring to me. The other side being, well, if it is not causing harm, that's great. But how confident can we be that it is directly leading to benefit? And that is where I am a bit less confident. I think that we have a fair amount of evidence indicating some essentially like neutral effects. We have association type data that is suggestive of benefit, meaning that when they look at kind of an observational way, looking at those who are on testosterone therapy versus who are not, those who are on might have lower cardiovascular risk, but that is not nearly enough or strong enough data to conclude that the testosterone therapy itself is what is lowering their risk. There is still all sorts of both measured and unmeasured kind of biases in those types of data sets to where the people who are put on are fundamentally different from those who are not. And that could lead to a big part of those differences. So we do not yet have what I would call a strong perspective, like randomized trial showing that like putting men with testosterone deficiency on testosterone therapy like directly leads to a reduction in their risk of having incident cardiovascular events or cardiovascular death. If we had that, that would be, you know, earth shattering. That'd be a pretty big deal. But we do not have that at this point. So that caveats or is kind of how I couch the conversation. I think that to your point, in the developed world, if we want to call it that, the vast majority of situations where we see testosterone deficiency tend to be in association with metabolic disease. And so we also see that addressing that metabolic disease by way of lifestyle measures through GLP-1 receptor agonist, through metabolic bariatric surgery, we tend to see improvements in blood testosterone levels when people lose weight through whatever means, whether that is enough to fully resolve their testosterone deficiency is variable. Some people will normalize their testosterone levels. Others will not. And for those who do not, who may have clinical symptoms that still are suggestive of testosterone deficiency, totally reasonable and in general, quite safe unless they have some other contraindication that hasn't been brought up yet to try them on a course of testosterone therapy. And it does not necessarily need to be, oh, if I give you your first dose, you are on this for the rest of your life. Like it is actually okay to trial it, see if they get benefit. And if not, there is a reasonable early timeframe in which you can stop it and not lead to a significant risk of like permanent HPG or testicular suppression. And so that's a, I think a pretty reasonable, safe approach to take. If somebody has like maximized the lifestyle levers, and if they've, you know, been able to lose as much weight as they're able to through those means or through pharmacologic means, or if maybe they do or don't want to go through metabolic surgery and you want to try it, I would not promote the use of it to say, oh, this is going to be used to lower your heart disease risk because I don't have a ton that I can hang my hat on there. But it can be something that, hey, this can improve your overall quality of life, potentially in a similar way to how I have that conversation on menopausal hormone therapy, any benefits on other stuff like cardiovascular risk are as yet unproven. And so that's kind of how I have that conversation. Yeah. No, well said. So for women, if you're a candidate for hormone therapy, the benefits for like vasomotor symptoms like flushing, bone density, and genoturnary syndrome of menopause likely outweigh the risks, big benefits there for those things. Other cardiovascular health and muscle preservation benefits remain hypothetical, mostly unproven, but interesting. You should consult with a clinician who's familiar with this and who can discuss your specific case. Both the Dr. Barakis are available for this link that in the show notes. For men, testosterone deficiency is often a symptom of underlying disease, most commonly obesity, as you mentioned. Addressing overall health may be sufficient to restore testosterone levels to normal. If testosterone replacement therapy TRT is indicated, it seems to improve risk factors related to heart disease, thereby theoretically lowering the risk of having a major cardiac event, though long-term data isn't currently available. So TBD. Yeah, we'll see. All right. Before we end this podcast, I want to introduce you to something I thought about this. It's like, look, we're talking about longevity doctors, Figenbaum and Baraki. If you were coming up with, you know, a series of markers that you would use for longevity, are you using biological clock or you using telomere length? Are you using, you know, high sensitive, high sensitivity CRP? No, we are not. I came up with the vital five, the barbomethane vital five. Tell me what you think about this. So at the top, your favorite blood pressure. Got to measure blood pressure. It's got to be within range. Um, and I can't say lower is better because obviously that's not true. Yeah, not entirely true for blood pressure, but I would be very hesitant to be permissive of blood pressure that's elevated above 120 over 80 for most individuals, unless there was a specific reason to kind of permit it to go above that. I'd be pretty aggressive at treating it or managing it, um, mainly because we think there's like this dose dependent risk, not only how high is it, but for how long is it elevated? So the sooner we can get it under control and the better control that is, the better off the individual. What do you think about that? I think it's a reasonable take when viewed through the lens of this kind of like longevity promotion, because there are certainly, you know, situations. I'm thinking about lots of the older folks that I see who are already multi-morbid and in the hospital or who are like, you know, on the very later stages of their life for whom this is like not at all a major consideration. And I'm much more permissive and I don't particularly care if their blood pressure is 130 or 140, sometimes even 150, because it's like, you know, if you're on hospice, then that is not something we, why are we even checking your blood pressure? So that context matters, but through the lens of longevity, if that's the lens we're taking here, then yeah, we know that risk starts to go up as that blood pressure starts to creep up over, I think like 115 over 75 or so. That is not to say that necessarily, that necessarily pharmacologically lowering it back down to that level is always going to lead to benefit. But that is just kind of what we observe in a population wide kind of data set. So if you are one of these kind of like maximizers, then yeah, being stringent lower for longer to that threshold would be wiser. Yeah. So that's our first of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. Second thing we're talking about here is Apolipoprotein B or ApoB. I could have just put standard lipid panel and we say non-HDL component, but, you know, look, if I get to make the list. Yeah, sure. I'm going to do a better job. So Apolipoprotein B, mainly because this represents your atherogenic load. As far as a single test goes, you can do that. And it's similar to blood pressures, another dose dependent relationship between this risk factor and cardiovascular disease. The higher it is and the longer it is elevated for, we think that incurs more risk. Now this is a probability based thing. We think that if we lower it, generally speaking, lower is better unless you've developed a medical condition that lowers it for you, in which case that is more problematic, but generally speaking, lower is better. And this would be another part of the Barrel Medicine Vital 5. What do you think about that? Also fair. And similarly, the context of lowering matters and how aggressive you choose to be is a very individual decision in terms of maximizing lifestyle stuff versus the use of single agent pharmacology, multiple agent pharmacology, and should also be couched in the context of your overall risk. You could have also made an argument, of course, as many people may to include a lipoprotein little a here. I'm also in agreement with you of not including it here. If we're just being limited to five. Yeah. For several reasons, the ApoB particle burden in our bloodstream drastically outnumbers the number of lipoprotein little a particles that we have. The numbers are just so much higher of ApoB. And that is currently the focus of therapy. As we mentioned, I think on a recent podcast, we actually don't even have the randomized trials yet on on lipoprotein little a lowering therapies. And so that remains an unproven thing. Once that is proven one way or the other, then we'll have more to say on that topic, but I agree with excluding that for now. All right. So we've got blood pressure, got Apo lipoprotein B for our first two. They're not in any particular order, but number three is VO2 max. I think, look, if you're going to go through the trouble of getting things measured and you want sort of actionable insights on what's next, I think having to VO2 max is a reasonable test to be done. Now, whether you do it in a lab, you know, hooked up to a metabolic cart, or you just do a one and a half mile run or the 12 minute Cooper test or whatever, all of those things would be fine to get you in the right ballpark to see, hey, do I have an average VO2 max? Is it below average or is it nearing elite? And we would try to push people who are able to to get closer to elite because we think there are continued benefits above just doing the exercise, just meeting the guidelines, going beyond that and making sure that you're achieving the actual elite level fitness relative to health. As far as that's possible for a person, what do you think about that? Yeah, I would just pick a performance test if it were me, but I'm more of a pragmatist in this than somebody who wants very specific data points like a proper VO2 max measurement. And so I would say if you want to pick your performance test of choice among those you listed and try to PR that, then go for it. Sounds great. Yeah, it moves us on to our fourth factor here on the Barrel Medicine Vital Five, relative strength. If we've hemmed and hawed about absolute strength levels, like we care about your absolute grip strength, maybe it's relative grip strength. Do we care about your absolute leg press one rep max or should it be relative like a body weight multiplier? And I think we just need a good sort of test for your musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems being integrated together in a functional way, some sort of functional test. I don't think a sit to stand test is going to be useful enough for a young, healthy, you know, otherwise healthy population who's interested in longevity. Right. And I further, I think that test, generally speaking, is not as predictive as we'd want it to be as far with like a, for an intervention point. It's not a great screening tool. It's like you can identify folks who already have sarcopenia, for example, or poor function, but it's like the change in very, maybe small changes over time, less noticeable until it becomes, you know, frank and avert. And at that point, you might not have even needed the test. So what do you think about this? Yeah, I think it's a late indicator. I mean, there are other examples of this in medicine, like a hemoglobin A1c, for example, is a late indicator of insulin resistance. By the time that that gets up over the threshold to diagnose diabetes, the insulin resistance has been present for over a decade in most people. And there are other potentially more sensitive metrics to catch this earlier on that, you know, we'll probably discuss at another time. But this would be an example of that. By the time the sit to stand is abnormal. Yeah, that's a late stage indicator compared with other potential tools. Yep. All right. So that's the first four of the Barbell Medicine Vital 5. And the last one, this may be surprising to you. But I needed something for body composition. I didn't feel like BMI fit the bill. I didn't think that Waste Circumference fit the bill. And it's like, can we just put these things together and have like a joint metric? Oh, that does exist. And we call it the body roundness index. Now look, the name needs work to be clear. It needs to be workshopped. Change it, right? Not only anybody wants to have their body roundness index assessed, might be more inflammatory than just then BMI generally speaking. But some decent data available on this so far, not as much as I'd want. But I think reasonably it tells people, are you at risk based on your, not only the amount of body fat that you're carrying, but where it's located. And that's really what I want here. Does that strike you as totally, like, look, you should have picked something else. Is this stupid or what do you think? I think it's a reasonable argument. And you also preempted somebody who might have said, well, why don't I just go get my body fat percent tested? Because the distribution is something that you actually care about and want to have captured in your metric. So I think that's a reasonable choice. If you can get an MRI or a CT that can otherwise tell you how much visceral adipose tissue you have and you are okay in the case of a CT with being exposed to those receivers of radiation, more power to you. But I'm like, we could just do this based on measurements and get close enough. Yeah. No, I think that that's fair. The only thing that I see, you know, that you might want to think about some sort of assessment for, which I'm not the expert to provide that would be some metric of, like, psychosocial health and functioning. Totally. How many friends do you have? I'm not a captcha deer. Right, exactly. What was the last time you went outside? Yeah, look, we're starting o'clock, 60 seconds. Name as many friends you could call right now. They pick up their phone. Yeah. There's some sort of mark. Yeah. And interestingly, this is probably bad for business, but like the total cost on these tests, on Apolyproprotein B is what? Like, you know, maybe 75 bucks, 50 bucks? Not even. Yeah. So yeah, we're going to be selling our Barba Medicine Vital 5 screening test. It's 50 bucks. Yeah, right. Get a blood pressure check. Get the lipid check. Do a performance test for strength and conditioning. And then body fat assessment. Pretty straightforward. That'll take you quite far in this game. And then have some prints. That's the hard part for some people. Nailed it. Nailed it. Love that. All right. Well, that is a wrap on the Barba Medicine Longevity podcast. At least part one. See if stuff comes down the pike. I'm sure we'll get some feedback on this. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me today. Catch you next week and every week right here on the Barba Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Medical Mystery：  Why This Athlete’s Blood Suddenly Turned Brown [uBj2uLk_c0Q].txt ===

 aut autoprilsch, autopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril cschopril, cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril c entertainment purposes only. Please see your physician if you have any questions about this. Now, on the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's up, dude? Hey, excited. It's been a little while since we've done one of these, so hopefully I'm not too rusty. And I guess that little teaser you gave already has my mind kind of racing a little bit, trying to see what scraps of a differential diagnosis I can just based on what you provided. But yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, it should be fun. A few announcements before we get into it. Two things. One, our chocolate whey RX is shipped to our facility, so that stuff is shipping out ASAP if you are in the market for a new whey protein supplement. Ours is pretty good, and that's the only pitch I'm going to give you. And I feel really good that it doesn't have anything that you don't want to be in there in the thing, and we're very competitive in the space as far as pricing goes for the amount of protein that you get. So yeah, you can check that out. Also, we just released our second generation Power Building 2 template. It replaces the first generation for Power Building 2 and Power Building 3. Now, if you're like, what is Power Building? I don't get it. Well, we're just combining powerlifting and bodybuilding together to try to get the best of both worlds for people who enjoy that type of training. I tend to like that type of training, so this is near and dear to my heart. Instead of the original programs coming with one singular program, this includes three programs. They're all 16 weeks long. There's a three-day version. There's a four-day version. Both of those are designed to take people to like a one-rep max test or a powerlifting meet if they wanted to do so. But we also included a non-competition type template for people who like training the big three, so squat, bench press, and deadlift, but aren't really going to max out their lifts or go to a powerlifting meet. So it's a fun style of training if that's what you're into. And so now we wanted to support more people through that. Also, we expanded the text so you kind of know why you're doing what you're doing. So you can check that out on our website. We just released that. It's also on the app, and you get access to both if you purchase through the website. I'll say my prediction. Now, this is what we have to do before any one of these cases. I have to predict whether or not you're going to get it. And historically, I've erred on the side of entertainment and said, well, you're just not going to get it. So people listen. I really don't think you're going to get this one. And I don't say that. I am. Look, you impress me regularly. I think you're very intelligent. Well, you communicate well. A lot of other superlatives. We could keep going, but this is a family show. I don't want to get too missed yet. I don't think you have enough information. Well, that's on you. To be clear, that's not on me. It's on the people writing the case report. All right. Well, sounds like I'll learn something. All right. You're ready, though? Sure. Let's do it. All right. Let's do it. Okay. Dr. Austin Baraki, you just got word that a 38-year-old man is en route to your hospital due to concern for a heart attack. While you wait for the patient to arrive, you're getting the report from the paramedics who are bringing him in. About an hour ago, paramedics were called to the patient's office by his coworkers out of concern for the patient's health. Upon arrival, the paramedics noted that the patient reported severe chest pain and shortness of breath, and his skin also appeared to be bluish. An EKG in the field was suspicious for a STEMI, a particular type of heart attack. And so the paramedics wanted to bring the patient to your hospital, which is a cardiac center. Upon arrival to your hospital, the patient is alert and oriented, but appears uncomfortable. He continues to endure severe chest pain located behind his sternum. He also says that he's short of breath and his hands feel sweaty. He said it all started during his workout that morning, but he wasn't sure what was happening and went to work anyway. Before cardiology can come and whisk the patient away to the cardiac cath lab. He says that he's also been recently sick. He says he's had a runny nose. He's been sneezing, has a sore throat and a cough, but he denies having any fever that he was able to measure at home. On his way out of the emergency department and into the, with the cardiology team, the patient denies that he has any active medical problems or any history of this. He doesn't use any drugs, but he does smoke cigarettes and he drinks about 10 drinks per week. So Dr. Baraki, that is the information that you have from when he showed up to your hospital before you start going down your differential diagnosis, a rabbit hole. If you want to play along at home, this is where you would pause the podcast, try to come up with your own differential. And if you've never done it before, I encourage you to do so just pause this thing, come up with an idea of like, Hey, what could this be ideally more than one thing? Although as I keep reminding listeners, the length of your differential diagnosis only needs to include the correct diagnosis. So anyway, yeah, it can be helpful to go through the systems of the body and say, Hey, which one of these things could relate and potentially cause this patient's presentation. So this is a time to pause. If you're not pausing, Dr. Baraki, take it away. What do you think about this patient? Yeah, this is a concerning story, a concerning presentation. And for the sake of the edutainment value of this, mainly the educational aspect, since you prompted the audience to try to do this, I'll return to kind of how I tend to build a differential diagnosis in these situations. And I think the key aspect of this as a skill is having an organizational structure to your thinking, because it helps you work through problems in a systematic way. Because I see chest pain near daily. And so that means I see hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cases of chest pain over the course of many years, if not, you know, into the thousands. And even though the patient is coming in with chest pain, the kind of source or cause for that chest pain can be any number of things. The mark of, I think, less skilled differential diagnostic reasoning, or what maybe some lay folks in the audience who are trying to play along might tend to do, is immediately jump to very specific diagnoses as things that could be going on, right? This is what I see oftentimes, even with medical students and even with residents and trainees, when prompted for a differential diagnosis, they jump to, well, what is the first specific diagnosis that comes to mind? And what I often end up doing is try to pull them back from jumping to very specific diagnosis and think in terms of more broad buckets, as I tend to call them. And what the nature of these buckets are kind of varies based on the complaint. And that's where you need some experience to be able to build these kind of organizational frameworks. So for a situation where somebody has pain someplace, it ends up being a very useful way to organize things into these buckets by using the anatomy of that area. And so as we've done before, when we've talked about chest pain, for example, you know, we think about, well, what are the things in the chest that can potentially hurt that, you know, have a nociceptive event in this case? So we have the skeleton, the ribs, the chest wall, even the skin. And then as we go deeper, there's the lungs and the pleural surfaces. There's the heart and all the structures of the heart that do can potentially contribute to pain, like the muscle of the heart, most concerningly, as well as the pericardium and some other structures. And then we have the esophagus even deeper in there as well, as well as some other things that I'll set aside for now. And so then we start to see, well, if I overlap things like chest pain and shortness of breath, then I start to see, well, now I'm really much more localized to like the cardiac and the pulmonary systems a bit more than I would be, for example, than to the esophagus, which can still contribute to that, but less likely, less common, and certainly less common than some issue going on in the skin, for example. But so then we start to kind of prioritize these things. So in this patient, we have a syndrome of acute chest pain and shortness of breath, which both using this kind of anatomic structured way to organize things, as well as just what's the most immediately life-threatening, we're going to hone in on the heart and the lungs. And you notice that I still have not said myocardial infarction or heart attack or pulmonary embolism or pneumothorax. These are all specific examples of diagnoses, but these are all kind of emergency things that are kind of no-miss diagnoses in these systems. And so the idea is if I know that I need to be investigating the heart and the lungs, well, what tools do I have available to me to do so? There's going to be the EKG, which was already done. There's going to be some form of chest imaging, like a chest x-ray, sometimes certain types of CT scans of the chest. And given the suspicion that arose from that EKG, this patient, as you mentioned, is appropriately getting whisked off to the cardiac catheterization lab because a myocardial infarction or a heart attack or some form of what we'll call more generally in acute coronary syndrome is definitely the most concerning upfront possibility. There are a number of potential causes of acute coronary syndrome. You can have atherosclerosis, a topic we've talked about a ton on the podcast where one of your plaque, coronary plaque ruptures and leads to a kind of a thrombus or a clot forming in your coronary arteries and limits blood flow to the heart muscle. But that can happen through a lot of other ways too. You can have spasm of your coronary arteries. You can have a dissection of your coronary arteries. You can have lots of other mimics of a myocardial infarction like this. And so taking that off the table upfront would be the first and most important thing to do. Now, you mentioned in the teaser for this that I'm unlikely to get this. And so I think that based on that alone, my leading source of concern or leading suspicion, you know, even though that is the correct thing to rule out, I'm going to end up probably having to think quite a bit more broadly beyond this first and most urgent concern as we get a little bit more information. But so far, what you've described justifies the upfront kind of evaluation and management, depending on his vital signs getting whisked off and at least getting that heart catheterization done. But if it's a negative, for example, if his coronary arteries all look actually clear and there's no evidence of a clot or a plaque rupture, of course, you can still have, he could have still experienced some form of a coronary artery spasm or something like that. There's still some things that can mimic it that could end up looking normal when they do take him to that lab. But I might also have to expand my thought process. And one of the curious things you mentioned is this skin appearance of being a little bit blue. The idea that he has what might be cyanosis is not something that is commonly seen when somebody just has a straight up regular run of the mill, quote unquote, heart attack, that there may be some cyanosis or change in skin color, most concerningly would suggest maybe it's this oxygen level, super, super low, which would be detected when they check his vital signs. And that would actually take me in a little bit of a different direction, you know, to start thinking about some other potential causes and contributors, which I will come back to should they become relevant upon getting a little bit more information here. So I have little objection to what they did up front, but I'll be curious to see what happens next to take us in a different direction. Yeah, very good framework. Okay, what is the problem? What is the general area? What are all the systems in the area that can possibly contribute? And you'll note that as you go further down like these different systems, they can actually lead you further away from the actual area, a person's experiencing pain, for example, or where you think the, you know, anatomy, the relevant anatomy is. Yes, we'll see what happens here. Well, look, the guy went to the cardiac catheterization lab, and in the lab, the EKG done there showed that he had sinus tachycardia, so a rapid heart rate, but normal rhythm. But the cardiology team interpreted the EKG not as a STEMI, a particular type of acute coronary syndrome, but as normal male pattern ST elevation. And so this is just like widespread ST elevation in many of the electronic leads that you use to get the EKG. It's thought to be due to early repolarization. It's benign, and it's commonly seen in young, healthy male athletes, although again, there's some additional workup that needs to be done to confirm that, hey, this is actually not a heart attack. This is a normal finding. We'll get to that. So a portable chest x-ray was also done, and that was normal. So they turfed him back to you. They said, we don't want this guy. We can't do anything. So now you finally get your first set of vital signs. His heart rate was 115 beats per minute. His blood pressure is 135 over 85. His respiratory rate is fast 24 beats per minute, uh, uh, uh, breath per minute. And he's 84%, uh, for his pulse ox on supplemental oxygen. He's got no fever. However, his physical exam, well, the patient appears ill, uncomfortable and anxious. He's struggling, uh, uh, appears he's struggling to breathe. Um, his neurological exam, well, he's alert and oriented. He's moving all of the extremities well, but yeah, he does have some difficulties breathing. Um, cardiac exam is a rapid rate that you can hear, but no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. His peripheral pulses are strong. His lung exam, it's got rapid breathing as mentioned, but they're clear to auscultation. So listening to them bilaterally, his lung sounds are normal. Musculoskeletal exam is normal. Uh, so no swelling, no tenderness, no weakness. His skin does appear clammy, particularly his palms. He is actively sweating. His lips and nails appear kind of bluish gray, uh, according to your resident, but, uh, you haven't actually laid eyes on the patient just yet. Uh, you're coming down and you're waiting for labs and an echocardiogram to come back. So, you know, while you're on your stroll to the emergency room, uh, what's going through your head, this is also another time where you would pause, uh, the podcast and think about, does this information put you in any different direction? Yeah, super interesting. Okay. Uh, I was taking a lot of notes there, uh, while, while you were chatting a little interesting, how delayed, uh, how long it took me to get a set of vital signs. Um, I imagine he actually had vitals before he went to the cath lab, but you finally revealed those, uh, to me here. So yeah, benign early repolarization, uh, is a finding that is pretty common on EKG and patients in this demographic men in their thirties, forties can, can certainly have it. Um, although when somebody comes in with acute onset crushing substernal chest pain, uh, I can totally see why the, the EMS folks and the folks in the ER were reluctant to call that a, that benign finding and instead treated this like it could be, uh, uh, you know, myocardial infarction or some form of acute coronary syndrome. So, um, moving, moving forward, I will say, you know, the rapid heart rate is something that is a little bit actually less common in patients who have that STEMI diagnosis, unless they're going into shock. Um, so that's already something that is seen a little bit less often here, his blood pressure and some of the other things are not getting my attention nearly as much as his respiratory situation. He's breathing fast and his blood oxygen level is low as we suspected based on that suggestion of maybe he's looking a little blue, which is again, unusual. Um, the fact that his chest X-ray is normal is reassuring for some things relating to the lungs, but is not sufficient to evaluate things super thoroughly. And we've ultimately seen, you know, it seems like not really done much additional evaluation of his heart just yet. So he would still get blood testing related to his heart, like troponin levels and all sorts of other things as, as part of this evaluation regardless, but really I'm updating kind of the problem that we're trying to solve now. So instead of a patient who's just coming in with acute chest pain and shortness of breath, I'm likely to, to assume that this is a relatively new onset, you know, uh, what we'll call hypoxemia or low blood oxygen levels and cyanosis with, uh, with, uh, chest pain and shortness of breath kind of as an associated binding. So really the thing I'm trying to solve ASAP is why is this patient's, uh, blood oxygen level 84%? And I assume that that number you gave me as well, he's breathing ambient or room air. Um, and so the first thing that we would do is, uh, and this is both a treatment and can be useful diagnostically as slap some oxygen on this patient and see if it helps, uh, if it does help that sends us down a certain path of, uh, issues that do respond to oxygen. And if it doesn't help that actually sends us down a different path of other types of causes for this sort of thing that do not respond to oxygen. Just a, just a brief correction. And this may surprise you because it surprised me because there was no further mention of this. So maybe I'm just giving this away. The 84% was actually on supplemental oxygen. Uh, yep. All right. Still leaving open the question of what was it before they put them on oxygen and did it improve or how high have they cranked it up? Cause usually you just crank the person up to a hundred percent and then you take them down from there to see how low do, how little do they need? I will tell you that they did not mention the specific amount of supplemental oxygen. However, it could be at a hundred percent. And this is the exact, uh, this, this would be the same. Okay. Pulse ox reading. Got it. So essentially you're telling me that we have a situation where we have a patient who has hypoxemia that is not responding to supplemental oxygen, uh, which is useful for, uh, uh, you know, working through this problem. One example of, uh, types of conditions that can cause this are called shunts. And a shunt basically means that blood that has already passed through the body, uh, from the arterial side and kind of given its oxygen off to the tissues and come back to the heart on the venous side to kind of pick up more oxygen to make another trip out to the body when it doesn't actually pass through the lungs effectively to pick up oxygen. But instead it kind of skips a step from the right side of the heart over to the left side of the heart, or if it shoots through the lungs way too quickly, uh, for a variety of reasons, it doesn't have an opportunity to pick up new oxygen. And so in that situation, I can pour all the oxygen I want into your nose or into your lungs, and it's not actually getting to the blood that it needs to get to. So one of the immediate concerns that I end up worrying about in these types of situations is whether there's some form of shunting going on in the lungs or in the heart. Um, this can be assessed through certain types of imaging, CT scanning, and an echocardiogram of the heart. Uh, and I would also be curious, you know, to, to look at those blood vessels, uh, in the lungs, uh, using, using some of those tools. One of the other things that comes to mind, uh, when I see or hear about a patient who has a blood oxygen level that is essentially locked at around 85% and will not budge no matter what, this is actually a kind of a textbook description of a unusual and an uncommon situation where a patient has been exposed to some sort of substance. And that substance has led to a change in their hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein in our red blood cells that normally carries around oxygen. And upon exposure to certain substances, drugs, um, things like that, um, it can sometimes have this, this kind of structural change that, uh, limits its ability to carry oxygen. And that state is known as methemoglobinemia. And so this is another, again, uncommon situation. But whenever I hear about a patient whose oxygen pulse ox is like 85 ish, and it's not budging, methemoglobinemia is a source of suspicion. And so at this point, I think the most immediate and urgent things to do, uh, is a, to look more carefully to evaluate for some form of shunt, um, whether in the lungs or in the heart. And then aside from that, I would be talking to this patient about what substances they may have recently ingested, supplements they may have recently taken, because there are certainly drugs and supplements that can cause that condition, um, to try to get a better sense of it, as well as sending off an arterial blood gas with, uh, what's called co-ocimetry and some other things to look for how much methemoglobin could there be in the patient's blood, because that would be another test of choice. And then there are specific treatments for that if that's what we end up finding. The only thing that doesn't entirely fit with that last diagnosis, even though it's an interesting and compelling one here, uh, given the patient's age and like the potential exposure and things like that is you don't usually expect methemoglobinemia to present with like crushing chest pain, which is a little unusual as far as why somebody, uh, you know, with a, you know, some form of shunting might have a chest pain is if they have a, uh, you know, for example, a septal wall rupture or something like that, like some form of, uh, maybe had congenital heart disease and he had a cat, a kind of a catastrophic structural, uh, or a structural catastrophe in his heart, for example, that happened abruptly and led to some pain, um, things like that. So that's kind of where my mind is right now, uh, looking for structural anatomic reasons for shunting and then thinking about methemoglobinemia while getting some further imaging of his heart and heart and lungs and getting a better history from him. Uh, today I learned of a new fear that I have, which is having a structural catastrophe, virtually anything in my body. Yeah, exactly. All right. Well, look, we got some, some labs and some imaging for you. All right. So first off, some, some labs that you probably would have expected to get a little earlier here. So his hemoglobin is mildly elevated, 17.1. It's white blood cell counts also mildly elevated at 12.5. Normal kidney function and liver associated enzymes. His CK level, uh, is 945, which is elevated. His lactate is 3.5, which is also a little bit elevated. His CKMB is 29.9%. Normal is less than 3%. This is, uh, usually a marker that's historically used for damage to the heart. Uh, it's not as sensitive and specific as troponins are, but it does tend to rise and fall faster. So anyway, they drove this, they pulled this and it's 29.9%, but it does have a normal troponin level and a normal D-dimer, which your head's going to explode from the D-dimer. They did an echocardiogram, which revealed a structurally and functionally normal heart with no pericardial fluid collection. So at this particular time, this would be another time to pause the podcast and refine your differential diagnosis. If you're playing along at home, Dr. Baraki, does any of this change what you're thinking about? Like, uh, what's, what's going on with this patient? Uh, yeah, helpful in, in some ways, not terribly surprising, um, in, in, in others, I suppose. So one question I would have, you know, this patient has a hemoglobin of 17, which is technically normal, but a little higher than we tend to see in, in a lot of people. And so when we see slightly higher than expected hemoglobins, one of the possible causes is if the, of course, in the fitness space, is this patient on anabolics or testosterone or something like that? So that's, that's one question. But the other is that our hemoglobins can go up as a compensation if we have chronically low blood oxygen levels. And so we see this, for example, in people who are smokers, or if you are a high level athlete, uh, you might go and train at altitude for several months or something like that. That's a way to make that happen. That kind of compensatory response. So what would be interesting is getting it, you know, looking maybe if we have any access to prior records of this patient, prior labs, prior sets of vital signs, if he had any issues with that. You mentioned he's a smoker, but man, 38 years old is still a bit too young to develop severe enough, uh, chronic hypoxemia in most cases, unless he has some other kind of second hit or, uh, you know, multiple, uh, lung diseases, which were for some reason, not apparent on his chest imaging, right? Um, most of these other lab findings don't get me terribly excited related to his kidneys, his liver, the CK. I don't really care about at that level. The lactate is, uh, just a sign of like, I'm kind of a little worried about this patient. It's not insanely high, but it's not low either. It just tells me there's something probably bad going on. And so the, the more useful thing you gave me was the echocardiogram. I'm going to have to make some assumptions about how this echocardiogram was done and what specific maneuvers and tests and things like that, that they did if they specifically looked for evidence of shunting on this echo. There's some, some things that are getting a little bit into the weeds here related to things like called a bubble study and things like that, to look for shunts in the lungs or shunts in the heart. But if I'm going to take this at face value and say that it is indicative of normal heart structure and normal heart function, then that does take off some of those A structural catastrophes, uh, that I, that I mentioned. Uh, for example, if the patient did have some kind of, uh, you know, septal defect or, or wall rupture or something like that, that led to some shunting where it shouldn't have been. Uh, and then also the other types of shunting that would have been evaluated. And so I'm feeling a bit better about this patient's, uh, cardiac situation. I still don't have very thorough, uh, lung imaging. Although again, most of the causes of low blood oxygen levels that relate to lung related diseases, um, A, show up on imaging and B, uh, tend to respond to giving the patient oxygen outside of, uh, you know, certain, certain things like, um, having, uh, uh, some of these intrapulmonary shunts, arteriovenous malformations, having severe pulmonary hypertension, that might be a little bit more difficult to, to diagnose. Although there would be even some findings on EKG from that. So I'm, I'm starting to run out of, uh, additional reasons here. I would still end up getting probably some more advanced imaging of this patient's, uh, lungs. I'm still wanting more information on his exposures and drug history and supplement history and things like that. I would like definitely, when I had a patient's, uh, hypoxemia that didn't respond to oxygen, I definitely want that more detailed arterial blood gas, which is not a test that I actually order all that often in my kind of routine practice. Most of the time a pulse ox is good enough because most of the time people do respond to supplemental oxygen and I can figure out the reason for it. So I do want that more advanced, um, assessment of his, um, blood gas and methemoglobin and things like that. And also just, I would end up obviously being curious if I have this patient still in the ER or admitted to the ICU or something like what the trajectory is of his symptoms and chest pain and things like that. And really, if there's been anything that I can, uh, that I can do to get his, uh, his oxygen level up. Yeah. Well, look, you, you had a conference with big pharma and you actually had to leave the hospital. And so you can only see this patient the next morning, which is where the story jumps to. So the next morning, the hypoxia, the shortness of breath and the cyanosis resolved overnight without any additional intervention. Um, fortunately his ABG came back that you, uh, ordered, but the lab was taking a sweet time despite you ordering it stat. Uh, no, no shade to, to the lab people listening to this. It has a normal pH, normal carbon dioxide, a very high oxygen, uh, while he was on supplemental oxygen, it was at 450 millimeters of, uh, mercury, uh, despite his pulse ox of 84%, as I, as you recall, uh, they did co-oxymetry as well, but I'm not telling you that. No, I'm just kidding. It was 28.5% for met hemoglobin, uh, for met hemoglobin. Um, this is often, this is a test that's often run parallel to a standard ABG, although sometimes you got to order it. Normal levels are less than 1% typically. Uh, the patient denied any exposure to, uh, dapsone, antimalarials, nitrates, illicit drugs. Um, but he did say, Hey, look, I've been using this natural creatine for a while, some protein, some testosterone, you know, for the training gains. Um, but he said, the only thing that changed was that I started using these, uh, inhaled smelling salts the first time, uh, that particular training session, about 30 minutes prior, uh, to his session. So at this particular time, that's all the information that you get, Dr. Baraki and for the listeners at home. So this is the time you would pause, you'd come with your final diagnosis and Dr. Baraki. Now you get to give us your final diagnosis as to what the heck's going on with this patient. Yeah. So it seems like I was on the right track, uh, based on, um, some of these results. Basically the interesting thing here, and this is kind of the tip off is you have a patient who's arterial blood gas. You mentioned he had very high oxygen levels while on supplemental oxygen. And so this is a, this can be a little tricky for those who are, I guess, not in the, in the biz. Uh, so the oxygen level that you are describing on an ABG is the PAO2. It's the partial pressure of oxygen that is dissolved in the blood. That's actually a different and separate measurement than the, uh, oxygen saturation or the hemoglobin saturation, which is what we measure when we use the little pulse ox things. Cause a lot of people, for example, like bought those maybe during the pandemic to like monitor their blood oxygen levels and things like that. And so the way that I like to teach it and think about it is there's a bunch of oxygen in the ambient room air around us. And then that air gets sucked into our lungs. It has to get down into our alveoli, the little pockets at the end of our airways from there, it has to, you know, make the jump from our lungs into our bloodstream. And there the oxygen is literally just dissolved in the liquid of our blood. That's this PAO2 measurement. And so when you tell me that his ox PAO2 or that oxygen level is very high on supplemental oxygen, that's what I expect because we're dumping a lot of oxygen into his lungs. And that oxygen is kind of cascading downward, like a waterfall through the lungs into the alveoli and into the blood. So it's getting into the blood where I want it to be. But for some reason it is limited. It is being inhibited or blocked or failing to bind for some reason between that PAO2 and the SAO2 or the SpO2, which is the saturation of hemoglobin. So there's some problem that is preventing the oxygen dissolved in the blood from getting onto our hemoglobin. And that can be due to things like problems with the hemoglobin itself.  aut autoppoeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropener So, you know, with co-oximetry that is often also used to assess for carbon monoxide content in the blood, because that's not something we can tell through something like a plain old pulse ox measurement. And so, yeah, you mentioned that his methemoglobin levels were 28%, which is, I would say, mildly elevated, not actually in like the super critical, severe, like fatal range when you're getting way up to like 50 plus percent and higher. This is actually not a condition that's very common. It's not something I've seen a lot of over the years. This is just something that I know of more so and I'm like hypervigilant for in the hospital setting, especially anytime I hear about that, just like this patient's oxygen is 85% and it's not budging. Again, that's like kind of textbook for this. And then you just look for what's the exposure? What caused it? There are it's almost always related to some form of drug or medication exposure. And so you mentioned this patient having a new exposure to the inhaled smelling salts. And so I'm curious about the kind of I forget if it's nitrates or nitrites or some some sort of component of those that is likely triggering this change in hemoglobin to cause hemoglobinemia. Yeah. That also would fit nicely with a story of somebody whose situation kind of resolved spontaneously without intervention overnight, because that's going to be a naturally pretty short acting exposure. It's not something that is going to persist and lead to such severe levels that he would need intervention treatment with things like IV methylene blue and things like that, which is often the management of this. Yeah, well, he was diagnosed with met hemoglobinemia. I knew you would get that as soon as I told you that his level was at twenty eight point five percent and nothing else was wrong. Sure. This patient. But yeah, he basically observed for another day. Since all of his symptoms resolved, it was discharged at following that period of observation. Pretty interesting case because like how, though, like how you know, how did he get this? So I wanted to briefly talk about met hemoglobinemia and like the actual explanation of why this patient got this from allegedly using smelling salts. I'd also like to point out that you still had little faith in me getting this case. And yeah, well, I to be clear, I added the blue part. I think had I left out the blue of the cyanosis, it would have been unfair. And ultimately, until you learned about the ABG finding, the co-oximetry findings from the ABG, I think it would. It would have been on the differential, I suspect. Once you told me that his pulse ox was 84 percent and didn't get better with oxygen and there was no shunt. There's the answer. So anyway. Yeah. So as Dr. Baraki mentioned, the red blood cells transport oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissue. They carry carbon dioxide back to the lungs for exhalation. All right. Hemoglobin is a protein that fills the red blood cell and it binds oxygen on the way to the tissues and carbon dioxide on the way back. The heme group in the hemoglobin has an iron atom for this purpose. Now, chemically, iron is in the reduced state Fe2 plus. Go think back to your chemistry days, which allows it to reversibly bind to oxygen. Now, in met hemoglobinemia, the heme molecule loses an electron, which is called oxidation. And it's now Fe3 plus instead of Fe2 plus. Now, in this ferric state, Fe3 plus, it cannot bind oxygen. So it's functionally inert for respiration and creates a sort of functional anemia, if you will. You're just not delivering a bunch of oxygen to the tissues. And blood will actually be like a little chocolate brown instead of red. So the ABG would have come back and it would have been like appears brown. You'd be like, oh, I know what this is. So the body does actually possess a few different ways to deal with some generation of methemoglobin. We do make some of this every day, all day. But levels are kept very low normally, usually less than 1 percent at this. But above this level, we typically call that methemoglobinemia. And like Dr. Baraki said, this is not like a crazy high level, but it is normally symptomatic on some level. Less than 15 percent that can be asymptomatic. But in this range, typically mild to moderate symptoms, above 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent. Now we're talking lethal levels of methemoglobin, mainly because now you're just not getting oxygen to the tissues. So clinical signs are related to the degree of methemoglobinemia. So basically just lack of oxygen that's getting to the tissue. So the higher it is, yeah, look, the person can turn blue. They can be short of breath. They can get fatigue, confusion. And, yeah, the one really interesting and almost giveaway finding was that his pulse ox was like capped at like 84, 85 percent despite being on a ton of oxygen. And you're like – and then you got the ABG that says, yep, you're getting a ton of oxygen. The lungs are structurally, as best as you can tell, intact, working correctly. Why is his oxygen so low? Yeah, I still don't know why he had chest pain. But, you know, pain is weird. Yeah, so the nitrates and nitrites are chemicals most commonly implicated in epidemic instances of methemoglobinemia. So like nitrate contaminated well water, so like a bunch of people turning up with methemoglobinemia. But in this case, it was believed that smelling salts caused methemoglobinemia in this particular patient. Now, when most people particularly listen to this podcast think about smelling salts, you think about those little ammonium capsules that you just crack. And there's some level of ammonium carbonate that's mixed with like water and some alcohol, and when you break it, it releases a vapor. And yeah, people do that to try to lift more. We did a podcast on this as far as whether or not it works. The data is not awesome, but I think people habitually use them, and they're like, I like this stuff. Yeah. Okay. I did – I'm not a chemist. Okay. I've taken a lot of chemistry, and I have access to the internet, and whatever. I tried to find a way where this particular type of ammonium carbonate could oxidize iron like by smelling it, and I could not find a reasonable chemical pathway by which that could happen and cause methemoglobinemia. So then I was like, oh, what if you just ate the capsule instead? It would be more corrosive to like the esophagus than anything else. So – and then I looked at the case report again to see if they had like a picture of the thing, and I don't know if what they put in the paper was the actual thing that the patient was taking. But it looked like inhaled ammonium like poppers, right, like was it amyl nitrate or nitrite or whatever it is, which can cause methemoglobinemia if used aggressively. So I suspect that this particular individual was not – didn't pick up like a bunch of cap, like ammonium caps that powerlifters use in like the – before they go out and pull their heavy deadlifts or something like that. I suspect it was poppers, and he just like did that before he went into the gym because he was like, oh, more blood flow or something like that, or – and then went to the gym and was like, I don't know. I don't feel so good. I further suspect that the chest pain was more related to anxiety about like not being – like being short of breath or something like that or maybe a head rush. I don't know, man. Yeah, possible. It's just you're never safe to assume that chest pain is from anxiety until everything else has been looked at. So, yeah, I think they did all the right things in taking it seriously. But, yeah, it is – I guess I would say if this patient rolled up to the emergency department and they had those vital signs and that oxygen level that didn't get better and a clear chest X-ray, that actually is not screaming like this is a straight-up normal like quote-unquote myocardial infarction or like a run-of-the-mill heart attack. It's like this – you know, the lungs are clear. He doesn't have pulmonary edema or cardiogenic shock from a heart attack. Like those would be better explanations for something like that and would actually get better with some supplemental oxygen. So there were multiple just like weird things about this case, and then that – yeah, that definitely took us in a different direction. Yeah. Most common causes not like at epidemic levels like environmental exposure would be like drugs, dapsone, for example, poppers, nitrites, as we mentioned here, adulterants in street drugs. Treatment usually revolves around not only supportive care for the patient but also like removal of the toxic exposure. And methylene blue is a common agent used here, not like recreationally, but in this particular case because it helps reduce that ferric iron out of back down to the ferrous state, Fe2+. But you got to make sure the patient doesn't have like the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, G6PD deficiency if they also have methemoglobinemia for some reason because methylene blue can actually cause like a hemolytic anemia where you're just crushing red blood. In that case, I think people – what is it, vitamin C that is used? Yeah. Yeah. This is something – this is a scenario where you would typically end up involving a toxicologist in your management because it's just not seen frequently enough for most generalists to be making those types of decisions for sure. Yeah. I also found that if somebody was on like serotonergic drugs for some particular reason, whether recreationally or they were prescribed that, that methylene blue can act as like a monoamine – an MOA. Oh, interesting. And can cause like a serotonin syndrome. Huh. Okay. Didn't know that. I was like, well, look, for all the patients that I manage with methemoglobin, thanks for that. But in any case, the prognosis for most patients experiencing acquired methemoglobinemia is pretty good. Yeah. You just remove the toxic exposure, supportive treatment, usually give them some methylene blue, symptoms dissolve quickly, and patients can be discharged after some observation. There are some congenital diseases that actually cause like a persistent like chronic methemoglobinemia. They're pretty rare, like hemoglobin M disease, type 1 CYB5R deficiency. Yeah. I'd never heard of that one before. I was like, that's interesting. Don't know anything about these. Yeah. But they have some persistent level of methemoglobinemia their entire life, and their life expectancy is the same as people who don't have it. Cool. So I suspect this is like a threshold thing. Like once it gets high enough and your body's like, hey, man, we actually can't tolerate this, so you should fix it. Yeah, I suspect I don't know anything about those conditions because they sound more like congenital kind of pediatric genetic type things, and they're not common. But I do wonder like if there's some low level persistent, you know, methemoglobin levels, if, you know, obviously your body can adapt to these things in certain ways. So maybe you're actually able to generate a higher level of hemoglobin to compensate your tissue level oxygen extraction from the blood probably goes up. So you might not have – even if you have a normal life expectancy, I suspect you probably don't have like the same maybe like peak aerobic performance potential. But that's just a hypothesis here, but that's an interesting thing. Yeah. Yeah, it could be. Alternatively, like they may just be, you know, persistently blue, and people are like, interesting. Yeah. In any case, yeah, did you find the case interesting? Super interesting. It's a fun one, and mainly I think because, you know, like I said, I see chest pain and shortness of breath literally every day. And most of the time, it's not something super uncommon or esoteric or rare. A lot of it's COPD and heart failure and, you know, coronary disease and things like that. And so getting down my like mental framework for this to the level where I'm talking about stuff like shunts and methemoglobinemia and things like that, it's just inherently a little bit more interesting because it's a little bit less of a run-of-the-mill type thing. And it's great for teaching physiology and pathophysiology to learners because if you can really grasp the difference in, you know, if you can understand hypoxemia and get a sense of, well, why did this patient's oxygen level not get better, then you understand this topic. And that can be the way that I can identify where a learner's at in their journey. Yeah. Yeah. See you in the hospital. All right. That is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning and strength and conditioning to modern medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout-out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on this episode of the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Barbell Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: Medical Mystery： 18-Year Old Rower With Chest Pain [Sa-oKdMwClU].txt ===

 cschopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposch With like different superlatives, like most likely to be highly educated and well-trained. No. So if this is your first Barbell Medicine podcast, just want to let you know what you're in for. Imagine an episode of House or to be, you know, temporally relevant, The Pit. But like, you know, more accurate and more real. So although The Pit, to its credit, is not bad. As close as I've seen TV yet, I think, in many contexts. And because it's that close, I am deeply uninterested. I'm like, yeah, I don't. Yeah, dude, I've done this before. I'm so out. Yeah. You're like, isn't it interesting to you? Like as a medical, you know, medical provider? I'm like, no, it's the opposite of it. It's like the last thing I want to spend my free time doing is like rehashing, you know, this sort of stuff. I'd watch any documentary on legitimately anything else. I didn't. You know what? I might even watch sports. Like if forced. So that's fair. Yeah. In any case, this is your first podcast. I present the information to Dr. Baraki bit by bit. And he takes us through his thought process. And ultimately, we arrive at a diagnosis. We'll see if he gets the diagnosis correct. And it's fun edutainment, hopefully, for all involved. Now, we did actually get some positive feedback that I think, yeah, it actually caused an emotion in the normally very stoic Dr. Baraki. So this is exciting. Yeah, I'll let you share the story. Yeah. I mean, this was a style of podcast episode that was inspired by one of my other favorite podcasts that I listened to. We've talked about a bit before. And at first, it was almost like for my own entertainment to be engaged in some of the topics that we discuss from time to time. But sure enough, these episodes have gotten quite a lot of positive feedback from listeners who either enjoy it as lay people or people who are medical adjacent or who are in medicine themselves. So you told me this story that you received. I'll just kind of read the story that was told to us. This person said they had a bit of a mystery case of their own at Orange Theory a few months ago. I said that I had a bit of a side-to-side discrepancy. So I suspected it was something more serious. I told him to rest for a couple of minutes. And if it didn't subside or if it got worse, that he should leave class to get evaluated. He asked what it could be. And I told him that I was concerned enough about a few rare but potential high-risk, no-miss issues, such as compartment syndrome, a venous or arterial issue like a clot or thoracic outlet syndrome. I'm obviously not a physician and didn't have a complete health history on this person. So I was trying not to be alarmist while also taking into account it could be something serious and that evaluation by a physician would be best. Ultimately, he decided to walk up the street to urgent care to be safe. Well, yesterday, he returned to class for the first time since the incident and told me that the day I sent him to urgent care, he received an ultrasound that showed signs of no flow in his right arm. They sent him to the emergency department where he was found to have thoracic outlet syndrome. He was taken to the cath lab to remove multiple clots in his neck and arm and is undergoing further workup with the potential for the removal of a rib. He thanked me for raising his sense of urgency. Thought I'd share because the Mystery Case podcasts have definitely helped me sift through and organize how I'd think about a problem like this and also gave me pertinent background information on diagnoses like this. So that is super awesome. I would be I am thrilled when I hear that kind of thing, even from my medical trainees and residents, mainly when they tell me, you know, by going through these exercises, I learned how to think about a problem, how to organize my thought process in a systematic way. And hearing that this was something that was even doable by a non clinician and non physician is even better because it just shows that this is at least being delivered in a way that is accessible to where people are like, yeah, this is this is doable. I can do it with it with a bit of background knowledge of some anatomy, some physiology and learning how to how we kind of think in an organized way. I think this person was able to help somebody big time because limb ischemia, lack of blood flow into an arm or a leg is bad. Yeah, zero out of 10 would not would not recommend. Biggest takeaways for me on that particular kind of like report was that one, staying calm during the during the incident. And also not wanting to raise unnecessary alarm in a person you don't know. And oh, by the way, you're not a medical provider. So like not, you know, overstepping. Right. And then to trying to figure out, like, well, what am I worried about that if I were to miss this, something bad would happen. Right. It's just phenomenally well done. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very impressive. Cool. All right. Before we get into this, a few announcements. So, yes, we did just release our general strength and conditioning one template, the second generation. This one is far more expansive than the first generation. So there is our in season program that we include three and four day options and a lot more sort of self-directed management in this program. So you get to kind of choose your own adventure as far as goals, as far as a total amount of training volume, as far as how the whole program is set up. So a lot more flexibility for folks. Also, speaking of programs, if you've ever wanted access to all of our programs, some sort of subscription type service. Well, we do offer that now through our program library. It's $12.99 per month that is linked in the show notes below. And we keep releasing new templates and you always have access to them. We also have new articles on the website, how to train while losing weight, what to do about elbow pain when you're a lifter, also what to do with shoulder pain if you're a lifter. So those are some of our new articles on the website. Those are linked in the description below. We also just launched our testosterone course with Dr. Austin Baraki as your instructor. And as I keep saying every podcast, he's OK. And then lastly, if you've ever wanted to get your form checked by a barbell medicine coach, we are now offering that for free. Just head over to our website, click the shop tab, scroll down and click form check, and we'll take care of the rest. Get you sorted. Make sure that you're getting the most amount of results from your training. All right. Before we get into the mystery case, I do have to make a prediction. So far, I think my prediction success is pretty high. The rate's pretty high. And so I'm going to endeavor to keep that going. I think you're going to get it. I think I just – You don't need to sound disappointed when you say that. I like – well, the goal, like I want to find something that's interesting to me enough to like do, right? Specifically for the pearls at the end. Like, hey, like why are we even talking about this? Like it can't just be another rhabdo my license case. Sure. You know, for example, from CrossFit. Like, oh, no. Crazy that that happened. But I also want to see you sweat a little bit. Sure. Like I want to – wow, didn't even know that that was a thing. This is not going to be that case, I think. But, hey, I remain optimistic. Are you ready to do this? Let's go. All right. 18-year-old male presents to the emergency department with a recent history of chest pain during soccer. He reports that he had chest pain that felt like his, quote, chest was tight, which also spread to his left arm, along with some, quote, palpitations during a recent soccer practice. He stopped playing at that time, and his symptoms gradually resolved over the next hour when he was being transported to the emergency department. His past medical history is significant for a previous visit to the emergency room for palpitations, where he was observed to have atrial fibrillation that ultimately terminated while he was under observation. He also, at the time, had a ventricular rate of 160 to 180 beats per minute. But, again, while under observation, his heart rate and rhythm returned to normal. He was discharged without treatment and had a follow-up visit scheduled with a cardiologist, which would otherwise be next week, so he hasn't quite seen the cardiologist yet. He has no other past medical history and no family history of cardiovascular disease. He denies the use of drugs, alcohol, tobacco, or dietary supplements. While he was playing soccer during this episode, his main sport is actually rowing. He's currently a competitive rower, rowing for about 13 hours per week, plus regular competitions. So if you're playing along at home, this would be the time where you would pause the podcast, kind of summarize the patient and what you are starting to think about diagnostically. We'll turn it over to Dr. Austin Baraki. What do you think about this patient? Yeah, interesting case. So an 18-year-old without a ton of known medical history coming in, it sounds like, with an episode of what we're going to call exertional chest pain and also associated with recurrent palpitations in the setting of a recent history of atrial fibrillation. So this is a pretty unique presentation, I would say. We've gone over in prior mystery cases kind of how to think about chest pain in general. We tend to think about emergency causes of chest pain relating to the heart and the aorta first. We also think about emergencies relating to the lungs, like a pulmonary embolism or a collapsed lung. We think about other emergencies in the chest, like relating to the esophagus and things like that. So very common first pass differential diagnosis for chest pain. And then there's many other kind of less emergent diagnoses that can cause chest pain that we think about. However, the unique thing in this situation is that this patient is very young, which in some ways can narrow the differential diagnosis, but in some ways broadens it as well, because there can be congenital things that come into play that, you know, I don't tend to think about as much when I'm seeing my more typical patient who's in their 60s or 70s with chest pain. Most of by that time in life, congenital anomalies are not usually something that we're entertaining quite as much on the differential diagnosis. So narrow some things, broadens others. But the aspect of the palpitations, feeling his heart racing, and the established recent history of an arrhythmia or an abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation changes the way we think about this a ton. Because chest pain together with this cardiac arrhythmia does narrow the differential quite a bit to mainly things affecting the heart and the lungs. You can have structural problems with the heart, like valvular heart disease. You can have other structural problems like hypertrophic cardiomyopathy affecting the heart, as well as electrical problems in the heart. So certain congenital conditions that can predispose you to arrhythmias, things like Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, Regatta syndrome, many others that fit in that category. So either a structural or an electrical problem with the heart. And then sometimes lung problems can also trigger issues like chest pain and atrial fibrillation. For example, a patient with a pulmonary embolism, that's a well-known trigger for atrial fibrillation. Of course, we'd have to then explain why does this kid have a pulmonary embolism if that's the case. That's not where my leading suspicion is at the moment. So right now, I think we need to get a sense of what this patient's vital signs are when we see them and get an immediate electrocardiogram or an EKG. That's going to rapidly help us assess mainly the electrical triggers for something like this. If the patient is in rapid atrial fibrillation at a rate of 180, it can be a little challenging to detect some of those things. Although if the patient has Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, it would be relatively easy to detect that. Whereas if they have more of a structural problem, that can require a little bit more investigation, like putting an ultrasound on the patient's chest, doing an echocardiogram. And then if all of that looks okay, then we'll have to broaden even further and start looking into some of the other causes. For example, look at their lungs, look at their thyroid function to see if that, you know, thyroid problems are triggering atrial fibrillation. There's many other causes. But I think the upfront no-miss types of things are structural or electrical problems with the heart, pending other information. So that's where I'm starting. All right. No, I like that. Very good thought process. And hopefully, it's something that people at home can understand, like this is how I got there. All right. So let's give you some information about this patient. First off, his vital signs, as requested. His blood pressure is 112 over 63. His heart rate is 88. His oxygen is 98% on room air. I don't have a respiration rate, but if we did, it would be normal. His physical exam, this is a well-nourished adolescent male in no apparent distress, sitting upright in bed. His cardiac exam is unremarkable. Regular rate and rhythm. There's no evidence of edema anywhere. His pulmonary exam is also unremarkable. He's moving all extremities well. His neurological exam, stone cold normal. Basically, a normal physical exam. As far as EKG, I sent you the EKG via text. Do you feel comfortable reading that from that strip? Okay. Yeah. If you're watching this on YouTube, which we have been publishing our episodes on YouTube, I'll put the EKG up on the screen. And perhaps you can see what Dr. Austin Baraki is talking about. Otherwise, it'll just be like a Rorschach kind of thing. What are we looking at? Sure. Okay. Okay. So starting out with the vital signs, these are all reassuringly pretty normal. Not much of concern here. And fortunately, we have a heart rate that is kind of controlled at the moment, meaning he's not in a rapid or an unstable heart rate or rhythm. The exam, it sounds like, was quite normal overall, which is reassuring for some things. For example, we didn't hear a loud, audible heart murmur that we might hear with certain forms of structural heart disease, valvular problems, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, although the lack of a murmur at rest does not rule out the possibility that he might have something like that. So if we had heard it, it would have been helpful. That we didn't hear it is actually a little bit less helpful here. So it remains kind of possible. So you've sent me this electrocardiogram. And so what I'm seeing here, just first glance right away, is that this patient has pretty significant ST segment changes. I'm seeing some ST segment depressions in the inferior leads, in lead two, in lead three, as well as in lead AVF, as well as in several of the chest leads. And then these ST depressions lead into a pretty tall, upright T wave afterwards across the precordium. So in V3, V4, V5, seeing that as well. The differential diagnosis for ST segment changes and things like this is pretty broad and probably a little bit beyond the scope of what we ought to discuss with our general audience here. But this is a very abnormal electrocardiogram for an 18-year-old kid. If I was thinking about an 18-year-old who's coming in with chest pain and a known recent history of AFib, and I'm looking for some of the things that I had mentioned before, for example, evidence of Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, evidence of Brigada syndrome, several of those things would be what I'd be really scrutinizing this EKG very closely for. And I'm not seeing super prototypical findings to suggest WPW in any of these leads. It is important to look at all 12 leads when you're looking for that kind of thing. As far as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy goes, there can be several different types of patterns that you see in that. And again, not the textbook findings of it. And that would not be something, a diagnosis that I would make solely based on electrocardiogram anyway. This patient is going to end up needing to get some basic labs as well as an echocardiogram for sure. And then this EKG also is not super suggestive of the kind of, again, textbook findings of Brigada syndrome. So some of those initial things that immediately came to mind are not super apparent here. There can be other congenital things that can trigger certain arrhythmias in young patients, things like long and short QT syndrome and things like that, which are also not really suggested on this electrocardiogram. So definitively abnormal. I think the first thing when you see, you know, a pattern like this of significant ST depressions in many different areas would be some form of ischemia or myocardial injury, inflammation, things like that. So that's kind of where I'm headed next. I'd also like some basic labs. And ultimately, this patient is going to need an ultrasound probe put on their heart. Yeah. Well, I could give you some of that information. So his CKMB, which is a specialized type of creatine kinase that is no longer used a ton for cardiac workup, but it was high. 754 international units per liter, normals 5 to 25, if it were being used still. His troponin, I was 0.69 micrograms per liter, whereas the upper limit of normal is 0.04. So that's elevated, another enzyme coming from the heart, and you're like, I don't feel great about that. And the only other labs I have to provide to you is a TSH and a potassium, both of which were normal, obviously looking for hyperthyroidism and some sort of issue with potassium, which could lead to some characteristic findings. Let's go right to the transthoracic echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound of the heart, as you mentioned, because you wanted it. You got it. It's got a 55% ejection fraction, no evidence of mitral or aortic valve disease, normal left ventricle contractility without wall motion abnormality. Also has normal coronary ostea. That's basically where the coronary arteries originate, as is right and left main coronary arteries, which are right above the aortic valve. Before we go further with more imaging, do you want to summarize this patient, kind of give us your differential right now? Sure. Sure. Yeah. 18-year-old kid, not a ton of medical history other than a recent bout of atrial fibrillation that seemingly self-terminated, coming in with acute chest pain in the setting of exertion, and basically found to have an electrocardiogram and lab findings suggestive of significant myocardial injury, potentially ischemia. You know, when looking at that electrocardiogram, one of the other kind of concerning findings, I mentioned a lot of the ST depressions that were all over the place, but also in lead AVR, he has significant ST elevation, which is something that can be suggestive of kind of more of a global kind of ischemic type picture. Sure, there are, again, other things that can lead to that type of ST elevation in AVR, but that's one of the things that would also get your attention here. And sure enough, on the labs, the elevated cardiac, you know, what people call cardiac enzymes, these proteins that we detect in the blood, including troponin, not something that we should be seeing in an 18-year-old, for sure. The echocardiogram is reassuring in some ways, means he doesn't have valve disease, he doesn't have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, he doesn't have, you know, any other form of apparent cardiomyopathy that we can tell, like an arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy type dysplastic heart or anything like that. A little odd to comment on coronary ostea, that's not usually something that you can actually see on a transthoracic echo, so I'm a little puzzled by that. But bottom line, this kid's heart is being injured by some mechanism. And, you know, if this presentation were in a much older adult, the classic type of phenomenon would be an atherosclerotic, you know, cardiac injury picture, like myocardial infarction from a plaque rupture. That doesn't seem to be very likely in this 18-year-old, and so we have to entertain alternative possibilities for why this patient is showing signs on electrocardiogram, on their blood testing of cardiac ischemia and myocardial injury. And so some of the things that you would entertain is, well, if this patient doesn't have a ton of plaque that can be rupturing leading to, you know, impairment and oxygenated blood flow to the heart muscle, what other ways can something like this happen? Are there congenital anomalies with the coronary arteries themselves? There's all sorts of different ways that they can be malformed or hypoplastic absent, you know, or their function impaired. You can have emboli, they can dissect, they can spasm, or if it's not coronary-mediated myocardial issues, the myocardium itself could be getting inflamed, injured, myocarditis, things like that, which we don't have a ton of other features to suggest that at this point in time. So basically, you know, in most patients presenting with this type of a phenomenon, they would end up getting taken to the cardiac catheterization lab to take a closer look at their coronaries. If, for whatever reason, that was deemed not to be the route forward, something like a coronary CT angiogram, you really want to make sure the coronaries are okay in this situation. And if it's not related to the coronaries, then probably something like a cardiac MRI would be the next steps to get a better characterization of both the coronaries and then of the cardiac muscle itself. All right. Well, hey, ask and ye shall receive. So first off, did get a coronary artery CT scan. All right. So he has normal coronary artery origins. So again, commenting on the origin of the coronary arteries. However, it does look like part of his left anterior descending coronary artery was actually inside the heart muscle, about 2.3 millimeters deep for about 24 millimeters in length. And then he also had a coronary angiography. That's an X-ray of the coronary arteries. And it showed that, yeah, there's some issue with the left anterior descending artery with about a greater than 50 percent narrowing at its midpoint during systole. So when the heart is actually contracting. So I also did a cardiac MRI at normal left and right ventricular function, no hypertrophy of the heart muscle. That's the myocardium, no edema of the myocardium and no scarring. So at this point, I'm going to ask you to summarize this patient for the last time and give me a diagnosis. If you're playing along at home, this is the time you got to pause. You got to give me your final answer. It is OK to phone a friend. You can use that, but it can't be a cardiologist. That's the only thing you can't call a cardiologist and tell him this. Yeah, this was actually a one of the specific examples of the kind of abnormalities relating to the coronaries that I had alluded to earlier, but thought maybe that's getting a little bit too into the weeds. So basically this 18 year old coming in with recurrent exertional chest pain, recent atrial fibrillation and found to have signs of cardiac ischemia on EKG on labs and normal trans thoracic echocardiogram and normal coronary artery origins, but does appear to have a segment of his one of his main coronary arteries, the left anterior descending coronary artery that is essentially buried within the heart muscle itself. So usually these are called the epicardial coronary arteries, the epicardial meaning sitting on the outer surface of the heart muscle. It is not normal for these arteries to actually go into the heart muscle itself. And so whereas, again, in the 60, 70 year old with atherosclerosis, they can have plaque rupture and a clot in their coronary artery that effectively prevents blood flow to the heart muscle to deliver oxygen. In this situation, the artery itself is perfectly healthy. However, it is sitting inside the heart muscle and the heart muscle is squeezing and contracting. And any time that that heart muscle squeezes and contracts, it is squeezing down onto this artery that is inside of it, essentially preventing blood flow to the rest of the heart muscle. And so rather than with atherosclerosis, where the impairment in blood flow is due to a effectively a blockage, quote unquote, inside the vessel, this situation is relating to an impairment in blood flow because the vessel is being compressed from the outside, preventing adequate blood flow. So this patient has something that is known as a myocardial bridge. And essentially what it is describing is the muscle effectively like a bridge over the artery and the artery is diving underneath. And any time that that muscle that is over top squeezes down, it effectively constricts onto the coronary artery and prevents blood flow. When there's prevention of blood flow, you can get ischemic chest pain or angina, which is what this patient was having. And then irritated heart muscle, you know, atrial fibrillation is not the most common manifestation of myocardial ischemia, but he had an irritable, angry heart that kind of led to that phenomenon. So the final diagnosis in this case is that this patient has a myocardial bridge. Fortunate that he was caught at this stage, diagnosed relatively early. This can be managed surgically by essentially snipping that muscle myotomy. There's also other, you know, more advanced types of interventions that can be offered that are well outside my scope. But that is what this patient has. Yes. So this patient was diagnosed with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries, also known as MINOCHA, due to myocardial bridging with exercise-induced atrial fibrillation. He was started on a beta blocker, atenolol, at 100 milligrams per day. And he actually underwent a stress test while on atenolol and was able to get up to 93% of his max predicted heart rate with no symptoms. Over the next six years, with regular follow-up with his cardiologist, only had two recurrences with temporary suspension of his medication due to what his family physician ordered at the time. He was able to return to training and competition, but at a lower level, probably because he was on a beta blocker instead of pursuing other interventions, which we don't know the entire, you know, sort of situation here. But, yeah, I thought that was interesting. So I wanted to talk about three things here. One, myocardial bridging. You did describe that. I just wanted to go a little further. I wanted to also talk about MINOCHA because that's fun for med students, medical trainees, and those adjacent. And then, finally, the risk of atrial fibrillation in athletes. This is something that people will say, look, you can't exercise too much because you'll get AFib. And then, you know, so I think it bears some discussion. But overall, what did you think about this case? Do you think it was interesting or? Yeah, interesting. You know, not something that shows up all that commonly as far as a presenting kind of diagnosis, even though the syndrome is quite common. And I think that the electrocardiogram is one that people who look at EKGs should be familiar with. This is a pretty clear, you know, ischemic pattern. And I think that, you know, I was scrutinizing it very closely for things that I thought up front were a little bit more likely in an 18-year-old. But myocardial ischemia can happen to anyone. And so for learners who are looking at this, the particular pattern that you see, especially in like the, you know, precordial leads, V2, V3, V4, those are known as de Winter T waves that are pretty suggestive of basically myocardial infarction. Those are a STEMI equivalent, so to speak. So something to definitely recognize that pattern. And that would be an emergency if you see it. Yeah. All right. So let's start with myocardial bridging. And you did describe it perfectly. The heart has three major layers, a smooth inner layer that's called the endocardium, a middle muscular layer that's thicker that's called the myocardium, myo being for muscle, and a relatively thin outer protective layer called the epicardium. And as you mentioned, the major coronary arteries typically lie on the outer surface, the epicardium. But when a portion of one of these arteries is covered by muscle instead, it is said to be intramyocardial, where a muscle runs over the portion of coronary artery like a bridge. And we call that myocardial bridging. The most common location is the left anterior descending artery, which is what our patient had. The prevalence is unclear because different imaging techniques provide different results, right? But on average, using autopsy and CT-related data, about 20% to 30% of people may have this, although most will be of little clinical significance and not be symptomatic. But this particular patient had systolic compression when he had AFib from physical activity, which caused a lack of blood flow, which we call ischemia. And so patients who are symptomatic, and this particular example with MINOCHA, well, it's more common that they have myocardial bridging. That's one of the sort of risk factors. So what is MINOCHA? Well, I first want to start with what is a myocardial infarction? You know, people will just call that a heart attack, but just the actual maybe the pathophysiology, broadly speaking. Yeah, myocardial infarction. So infarction refers to essentially necrosis or cell death of the heart muscle. And so when the muscle cells infarct, they are dying due to a lack of sufficient oxygenated blood flow. And so as I alluded to earlier, there's a lot of different mechanisms by which somebody can have a lack of sufficient oxygenated blood flow. You can have, for example, these types of injuries to these cells if you just have such severe anemia that you can't even get enough oxygen to the heart muscle during times of high stress, so like physiologic stress. So, for example, we'll see, you know, these types of issues happen when people are in septic shock in an ICU and they have severe anemia and their heart rate's going really high. And we can see, you know, hey, the heart is basically outstripping its out kicking its coverage, as you tend to say, where it has a certain demand and the body can't meet it. And other ways that the body can be unable to deliver enough blood flow is if there is a physical obstruction to flow, for example, from atherosclerosis, from plaque, obstructive coronary artery disease, or if there are other problems that are impairing blood flow. Like I mentioned, coronaries can spasm, they can dissect, there can be other clots that travel to the coronaries and get in there and block them. So there's all sorts of other mechanisms. Ultimately, it's just, is enough oxygenated blood getting there or is there insufficient oxygen in the blood? Is there a blockage to flow? Where's that blockage coming from? In this case, it was because muscle was squeezing down and essentially pinching the artery shut every time the heart muscle squeezed. You can also have just this general syndrome of a heart attack without any obstructive coronary artery disease.  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl or obstruction of the coronary arteries. There's no severe hemorrhage or bleeding, and there's no severe respiratory failure. All of those other things would be a different diagnosis. So this affects about 8% of individuals who have experienced a myocardial infarction. It is more common in women than men. So, for example, of all women under the age of 50 who are having a myocardial infarction, half of them have Minoka here. Also tends to be more common in younger individuals, also black and Hispanic individuals. And these folks are less likely to present with traditional risk factors. In this case, we had an 18-year-old, you know, otherwise healthy dude who, you know, subsequently had a myocardial infarction. Causes, yeah, you can get a spasm of the coronary arteries, myocardial bridging. So having that layer of muscle over the top can cause spasming, for example. You can have a dissection of the arteries. You could have Takasubo, which we discussed in a previous mystery case. You could have viral myocarditis. But effectively, the point remains the same. There's not an obstruction, a significant obstruction in the arteries, but the person still not being able to meet the demands for fresh oxygenated blood to the heart, and you get a myocardial infarction. These folks tend to have a better prognosis than, you know, traditional coronary artery disease, with about half the mortality rate in the hospital and half the mortality rate at one year. So while you'd prefer not to obviously have a myocardial infarction, if you had to pick one, you know, maybe this is the flavor. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So let's pivot and talk about atrial fibrillation risk in athletes. Do you want to briefly just review, like, what AFib is? Because it's, like, most common. And we've talked about a bunch, but let's rehash. Yeah. It's one of many different types of irregular heart rhythms, and it happens when the atria, or what are commonly known as the top chambers of the heart, essentially start fibrillating. And that's a fancy word to say. They're just essentially quivering. They're not contracting in a kind of metronomic, regular, effective fashion. So they are electrically very irritable. They're just quivering, not really contributing much to blood flow from the top chambers into the bottom chambers. And so when they are just kind of sitting there quivering like that, not only can people have symptoms, especially if the ventricular rate, the bottom chambers start contracting at a very fast rate, as this patient did previously, you can start to feel your heart racing. There can be a lot of other associated symptoms with this. General fatigue, exercise intolerance, things like that can happen. But also as blood kind of sits in those top chambers and doesn't really flow as effectively as it otherwise should, anytime blood sits still, it's going to want to clot. And it can clot. And then if you have a clot sitting in your heart, that can get shot out of your heart to lots of different potential places in your body. If it gets shot up to your brain, it can give you a stroke. If it gets shot down to your leg, you can get acute leg, you know, limb ischemia. It can get shot into your spleen or your kidneys, lots of other different potential places. So these patients are often either, you know, shocked out of atrial fibrillation into a regular heart rhythm, put on medicines to get them out of atrial fibrillation into a regular heart rhythm. Sometimes we let people live in atrial fibrillation if it's been, you know, longstanding for a really long period of time and we're not going to be able to effectively get them out of it. And then most of these patients are going to get put on some form of blood thinner to reduce that risk of clotting because that can lead to potentially catastrophic consequences. Yeah. Yeah. So the reason why this is important is because there's been some thought that atrial fibrillation risk is higher in well-trained individuals, specifically endurance athletes. But the relationship here between like cardiorespiratory fitness level, participation in exercise and, you know, atrial fibrillation risk is nuanced. So generally speaking, in like a non-athletic population, increased cardiorespiratory fitness and increased participation in exercise is associated with a reduced risk of atrial fibrillation. So if someone was listening to this podcast and they were like, well, if I exercise, I'm going to increase my risk of AFib. Well, that is definitively not the case. Effectively, you take somebody, they go from insufficiently physically active to meeting the guidelines, exceeding the guidelines, doubling the guidelines or whatever. You would predict a risk reduction rather than an increased risk. Yeah. And that's been shown. I mean, I think that atrial fibrillation risk, along with several other cardiovascular risks, kind of correlate with common metabolic conditions of that we see a lot these days, things like insulin resistance, diabetes, high blood pressure, those sorts of things all tend to cluster. And they probably lead to some form of kind of almost microscopic structural changes to the heart, some fibrosis in the atria, things like that, that are likely happening and can increase the risk of developing heart failure, particularly what we call heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, as well as atrial fibrillation. And so this is a condition that the more aggressively we treat and prevent the development and progression of things like insulin resistance, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, metabolic syndrome in general, and get people more active, we can significantly reduce the risk of developing AFib at all. Or if people have AFib, they tend to have less AFib burden, meaning they're likely to spend less time in atrial fibrillation, as well as improve their quality of life. And so I recently gave a lecture to our residency program on basically the benefits of exercise across all sorts of common medical conditions. And one of them included atrial fibrillation. There was a randomized trial published in Jack Clinical EP just two years ago, April 2023, that they call the ACTIVE AF trial. AF is the acronym for atrial fibrillation. But yeah, it makes it very memorable. The ACTIVE AF trial basically took patients and randomized, like about 120 patients and randomized them to an exercise intervention or quote unquote usual care and showed, you know, quite significant benefits to the group that was exercising in terms of symptom burden, in terms of their VO2 max and things like that across the study that lasted about a year, I believe. So definitely something that's strongly recommended. It's interesting that, you know, there's this concern definitely at low levels of cardiorespiratory fitness and these medical conditions that cluster with it of having an increased risk of atrial fibrillation. And then the other risk that you're alluding to is like maybe at like super ultra endurance end of the spectrum, there may also be a bit of an increased risk in that end. Although, you know, not necessarily of the risk is not necessarily of the same character, I would say. And there's probably a relatively broad sweet spot in between for atrial fibrillation where more exercise is generally better. Yeah. Well, let's go to that upper pole of like a very highly trained endurance athletes and just see, you know, most of this data here is observational in nature just because it's hard to run a randomized controlled trial for like the number of years it takes to like attain high levels of fitness and then kind of see like, oh, well, did these people develop more atrial fibrillation? And this mostly occurs in older, highly trained, highly trained endurance athletes. And so, yeah, there is some decent evidence showing that there's an increased risk of AFib in highly trained athletes, particularly as they get older. Multiple studies, certainly meta-analyses have shown this over and over and over again. The real question is, well, how, what is the like sort of magnitude of the increased risk? And what is the sort of effect of this increase in risk? Meaning that do these individuals who are highly active, highly fit? Well, if they have AFib, does that actually lead to like increased risk of heart attacks, increased risk of stroke, for example? And so the overall sort of magnitude of effect, it shows that, yeah, there's like a five time increased risk of developing AFib if you do attain a high level of cardiorespiratory fitness. And this sort of like threshold is about 2,000 hours of training that has to be accrued before the risk really starts to rise. And yeah, pretty significant risk here. Again, mostly in older individuals and almost exclusively in highly trained endurance athletes, not resistance training. So again, stroke represents a serious complication of AFib. But despite maybe having AFib in this population, athletes seldomly have other risk factors like high blood pressure, diabetes, heart failure, dyslipidemia, which with in conjunction with AFib would actually increase the risk of stroke. And so we look at some data here on actual stroke risk in athletes that do have AFib. And so this first study I'll talk about, it's 505 male athletes with a median age of 68 who regularly participated in long distance ski races over a median period of 14 years. It compared them with about 1,800 men of the same age from the general population who were not highly trained athletes. The results showed that the athletes had a higher prevalence of AFib, but a lower risk of stroke compared to the non-athletes. And compared to athletes without AFib, athletes with AFib had a twofold increased risk in stroke, while non-athletes with AFib experienced a nearly fourfold increase in stroke risk compared to non-athletes without AFib. So if you get to pick, you'd prefer obviously not to have AFib and be highly trained. But yes, sometimes this happens. Larger study, 208,000 Swedish cross-country skiers, both male and female, versus 500,000 plus non-skiers. A lot of ski data here. And I don't know if they just happen to have like the highest VO2 max on average or carter sport fitness. I can imagine cross-country skiing seems exceptionally difficult for very long distances. Yeah. So both male and female skiers had lower stroke incidence than non-skiers, about 36% lower. skiers with AFib had a higher stroke incidence than those without AFib. But after atrial fibrillation diagnosis, they had a lower stroke incidence and mortality compared to non-skiers with AFib. So just to summarize, if you are an athlete with AFib, your risk of stroke is likely lower than a non-athlete, non-highly trained individual with AFib. If you are an athlete and you do have AFib, your risk of stroke is probably higher than if you were an athlete without AFib. But as far as whether or not you can control that, that's more complicated. The data on resistance training show effectively no increased risk of AFib unless somebody had a very low cardiovascular fitness level prior to engaging in exercise. And then by engaging in resistance training exercise, increased their cardiovascular fitness. Yeah, the risk goes up, but it's still pretty small. Yeah, I think overall, the other thing that we haven't really investigated is that do highly trained athletes, if they were to lower their exercise volume after receiving a diagnosis of AFib, does this just go away? Because that's actually not been studied. And so that's a question that maybe needs to be investigated. I suspect, and you will get your thoughts on this, there's some sort of maybe like genetic predisposition, other sort of like lifelong exposure risk that maybe we're not picking up that people who they get it and just happen also be highly trained athletes. And it's I just don't know that it's something we can quote unquote, correct, other than identifying, oh, you do have it. So let's manage you optimally. But I don't know that I would, you know, tell people to reduce the risk or tell people to reduce their exercise volume to reduce the risk of AFib. Yeah. Yeah. I am with you on this. It's a it's a tough nut to crack here. And part of the other challenge is that atrial fibrillation, that even just the diagnosis and management of it can be tricky because, as I mentioned, some people have symptoms and that's when they would present to care and get diagnosed. And other people don't have symptoms at all. And so there's this discrepancy. And this is something that the electrophysiology world is kind of grappling with currently, especially in the era of like modern wearables, where your Apple Watch might tell you that you had a stretch or a bout of AFib, even if you didn't have any symptoms, because the original data sets where we figured out, you know, AFib and stroke risk and then how we risk stratify people to decide should they be on a blood thinner or not to prevent their risk of stroke. None of that was done in these types of patients, people who are just like incidentally just my Apple Watch told me I had AFib. What do I do? We don't have good evidence that managing those people the same way is actually, you know, the right move where it's a lot of it is just kind of hand wavy guesswork at the moment. And so, you know, I also wonder among these endurance athletes, for example, how many of them are being diagnosed with what we'll call like clinical AFib, meaning they presented to care maybe because of symptoms or they had, you know, an episode or an event that they felt or something like that versus how often is this just happening to people in bits and spurts with no symptoms whatsoever. And we never detect it because that would add an additional wrinkle to this to this data. So pretty complex world. And I hope that, you know, in the near future, we get a little bit more evidence in the realm of, you know, how what is the best way to manage people with like asymptomatic almost incidentally found atrial fibrillation? Because that's something that I think especially with wearables in people who are, you know, biohacking and paying a ton of a ton of attention to these types of things, especially if they're super active, like we're going to get asked this kind of stuff more and more and more. And we don't yet have a great answer for these folks on what we should do. Yeah. So where I currently stand is that for the general population, the majority of whom are insufficiently active, meeting or exceeding the current physical activity guidelines and attaining a higher level of cardiovascular fitness likely reduces the risk of not only AFib, but also stroke or other sort of major adverse cardiac event. However, the combination of like autonomic structural and hemodynamic effects of high volume, high intensity aerobic exercise repeated over long periods of time for sport likely imparts some risk of arrhythmia, particularly in like vulnerable individuals. Those are predisposed to it with high volumes of exercise. And what I'm talking about here is likely four to five times the current sort of guideline. So a lot. Pretty much nobody listening right now is in this danger zone. Yeah. You want to even call it that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Maybe maybe there's another podcast called like endurance medicine and then you can like maybe that listening audience. But yeah. So like four to five times the current guidelines. Yeah. That may increase the risk of AFib in susceptible individuals, but there's not really an associated increased risk in mortality or stroke compared to being insufficiently active. There are gaps in our knowledge as far as like, well, if somebody did develop AFib from high levels of exercise, this four to five times the current guidelines. Well, what about reducing it? Would that like, would they no longer have AFib? And would the reduction in cardiorespiratory fitness be like a positive as far as the overall like risk benefit? We just don't know. Yeah. And again, there's no real data showing an increased risk of AFib from resistance training. We would prefer no AFib if we got to choose. But in my opinion, it kind of is what it is for people who have incidentally found this due to high levels of exercise. And in that population, I would just plan on managing any other risk factors as much as possible. But I don't know that I would recommend reducing exercise volume. How does that strike you? Yeah, I agree. I think that this, you know, hardly applies to the vast majority of people. And if somebody is performing ultra endurance exercise to that level, five plus times the physical activity guidelines and running a risk of maybe a slight increased risk in atrial fibrillation, I don't think that most of those people are doing 5x the guidelines under the guise that it is necessary for their health. And so there's a lot of things that athletes, which I would classify these people most likely as athletes, most likely competitive athletes, that athletes do that they are often very accepting of may not be, you know, the healthiest thing for them. We see this across all sorts of sports, whether it comes to physical risks of the sport itself, whether it comes to, you know, substance use, performance enhancing drug use, all sorts of other things that that people will do in these competitive avenues that they're under no illusion is like healthy for them. And this kind of fits in that category. Most people are not doing 6x the guidelines because they think it's necessary for them to be healthier. And so, you know, what you would do is maybe bring this to their awareness, potentially, if it doesn't come to their awareness already by experiencing symptomatic AFib. And they would probably be like, yeah, this is what I want to do, though. This is important to me. And so I'll manage the risks accordingly. I don't think we should look at them as in the same way as somebody who has obesity, uncontrolled diabetes, heart failure, and is an AFib. You know, they're certainly not of the same risk profile. There's probably some nonzero risk associated with that upper end. But yeah, I don't think they're doing it under the illusion of health. So that's not really a thing that would alter my recommendations for, you know, the overwhelming majority of people listening. Yeah, yeah. It's kind of like telling an individual with obesity, like, hey, don't make sure you don't eat too little. Yeah, like conservation exists. It's possible. Yeah, exactly. It's like don't tell that person with who also happens to have AFib, like, don't exercise too much because it might worsen your AFib. I'm like, I have no concerns about that. In fact, I would predict that as that person increases exercise and particularly as that impacts, you know, overall cardiovascular fitness and maybe obesity itself, that their risk of AFib and maybe their incidental AFib would go away. And then if they happen to get to like 20 hours a week of training, maybe that risk goes back up. But again, that is generally a conscious decision to like, hey, man, I'm doing this for sport. I mean, that's a lot, a lot of endurance training that people don't just like do by happenstance. Yeah, totally. There's I think that probably pretty much covers it. I mean, if you say you said five times the current physical activity guidelines, right? So that's what at the top end of 300 times five. That's 1500 minutes a week. 25 hours. 25 hours of conditioning. And I don't think this is like 25 hours of zone one either. This is like legit, you know, conditioning. And so I think back to like even my competitive swimming days. And I was like, maybe approaching that. I don't even think I was actually up to that much in total. And that was like a lot of hard conditioning during that period of time. And I would never go back to training that amount these days or in the foreseeable future. So I think it's just a vanishingly small amount of the population that would even be willing to do that. And yeah, they're doing it for other reasons for sure. Yeah. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the Mystery Case and the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We covered myocardial bridging. We covered Minoka. We covered AFib. You know, pretty decent. High level stuff for our audience. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. So links to everything we discussed in this podcast in the show notes in addition to the case. So check that out. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. For everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you. Bye. Thank you.

=== FILE: Menopause, Fasting & ＂Cortisol Belly＂： Diary of a CEO Review (Part 2) [ErahIoEp53k].txt ===

 autopril, autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo is eating your bones and ruining your athletic potential. I'm joined again by Dr. Lauren Colenzo Semple, and this time we're bringing in the heavy artillery. Dr. Lorraine Baraki helps us navigate the fear-mongering around IUDs, and Dr. Spencer Nadolsky weighs in on the GLP-1 conversation. We watch this so you don't have to. Today, let's get started with the claim that if you're a woman over 40, you're basically fragile. We talk about high intensity during our reproductive years. You can pretty much get away with whatever you want to do during your reproductive years because you have the benefit of our hormones working for us. We start getting into perimenopause and we start getting into menopause. This is where we have to really carefully look at volume versus intensity. So that means if we're doing lots of stuff, or are we doing really purposeful high intensity versus low intensity? Because we're trying to create what we call a polarization of the training so that when we hit high intensities, we're actually hitting the intensities we need to create change. But on the other side of it, we want to hit really low intensity so that we can have recovery. It gets harder to recover as we get older, regardless if you're male or female. But in perimenopause, we don't have the benefit of estrogen supporting anti-inflammatory responses. So we have to be very cognate that we need more recovery. Well, I think recovery is very individualized. And again, it goes back to how much volume are you doing. And so there will be a point at which we are having recovery issues because we're just overdoing it. And that point will vary for different people. The fitter you are, probably the more that you will be able to handle. If you're just starting exercise, then we need to kind of get over that initial hump of just getting used to it, making sure that we're not having a ton of soreness. So if we're just going to say menopause, then that's missing the mark about, again, who are we talking to and what kind of exercise are they doing? And what is their fitness level? Because we're going to have a different conversation, you know, based on those parameters. But there's nothing. And there are, in some cases, recovery issues that are not necessarily about your training, but maybe about overall experience of the menopause transition, where maybe you're having some symptoms, and then there's poor sleep, and then that's all kind of factoring in. But there's nothing to say, because you are at menopause or post menopause, or because you have hit a certain age, here's your volume cut off, right? Like you can't do high volumes of exercise. And we know that because there are amazing masters athletes of both sexes. So you can just look to that and say, hey, if you're fit, and you continue to stay active, then you will continue to to, you will continue to adapt in an exercise specific manner. But the reason why a lot of older people might have what we could say are recovery issues is because you end up with some pre existing pain or injury history going into an exercise program that then you're trying to account for. So maybe if that's the angle, then then I can. But I don't know. If you're saying older people might have more joint pain, broadly speaking, and therefore, we might want to consider that in how we're developing an exercise program. Okay, but as soon as we start getting beyond that, then I don't know what what we're doing here other than just scaring people into doing less exercise. Yeah, it's just a nocebo straight up. They're just like, look, if you're older, you're going to be harder to recover. And it's like, well, maybe depends. Is this person like a lifelong athlete? Right? Or they've been or they have been training, you know, they just start training and now they're more trained. And so therefore, like their recovery status, they've accommodated to the training, like to the training load. That's what happens. You get better at recovering, the more trained you get. Now, as people get older, a number of things can happen. One, you can develop medical conditions. So if you're saying, look, people older people generally have more medical comorbidities that can compromise their not only ability to participate in exercise as much as they want, but also maybe limit some of their adaptations, their recovery. Sleep can be a huge issue. Psychosocial stress. There's a whole bunch of stuff that tends to accumulate as people get older. And so broadly speaking, sure, there can be more variability and more volatility in how people recover. But the idea that just because somebody's getting older, their recovery is worse, their training tolerance is worse, all other things being equal. Well, I ain't buying it. And I don't think that's supported by evidence either. And this whole other thing about a discussion around menopause is like, there's these women are these special creatures. When they go through menopause, they don't respond as well to exercise. Somehow the, you know, they need to be handled very carefully. And again, all of this is just putting up obstacles, barriers into my mind and like how, you know, if you're hearing this and you're a woman, you're perimenopausal, you're like, should I? I don't know, man. Like, I don't know that I should be exercising. It's kind of like when you tell a person with osteoarthritis, you're trying to explain to them the pathophysiology of the condition. You're like, oh, let's just wear and tear on your joints. And they're like, oh, that sounds bad, doc. What should I do for it? And you're like, you should exercise because it's actually, it's good for you. It improves all sorts of outcomes. You're like, well, you just told me it was wear and tear on my joints, but you're asking me to load and put more wear and tear on the joints with exercise. It's like, you're telling people, these women like, yes, you need to exercise. It's beneficial for you. But also, but look, if you have menopause, like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Be very careful. You know, I don't know. It doesn't square with me. Yeah, I think it's another example of reducing you to your hormone profile, right? So that we're just translating the cycle syncing into, you know, framing it differently for a different age group. And it also doesn't really square that we're saying, we need to really, really focus on recovery here. But everyone should be doing sprint interval trainings. Like sprinting is one of the most, like, you know, damaging type of exercises you can do. So arguably, I would say if you're going to start doing a bunch of sprinting, make sure that you are recovering appropriately. But I mean, after you account for the fact that do you know how to sprint? But how are both of these things true? That recovery is so important and is something that we really, really need to be mindful of. But we want to be going as hard as possible. And we need to be lifting heavier because we are older or doing more high intensity work. So that is I'm trying to wrap my mind around the broader recommendation. And it's just not the puzzle isn't fitting together for me. Again, I don't think that she does exercise prescription on a regular basis for people. And so like, because again, when you try to put all these ideas together to try to generate the Stacey Sims program, you'd be like, this doesn't, this doesn't make sense. I can't even create a program from what you're saying. But just just one more little beat on this on this menopause thing. There's this assumption that that perimenopausal women somehow lose their like, musculoskeletal plasticity, like just don't respond as well to exercise anymore. And so what you would then expect to find in a research investigating how do postmenopausal women respond to resistance training, for example, compared to premenopausal women, you would expect way less hypertrophy, way less strength gain, because again, their adaptive capacity has been somehow attenuated by being in the, the hormonal milieu created by menopause. That's not what the research shows. It's not what the research shows. And like, look, if there were these special nuances that we could get very technical and detailed about and come up with proprietary recommendations, I would love that. Do you understand the marketing engine behind that and how we could so it'd be great? It'd be great. Look, specific recommendations, I can get ultra nuanced here. But instead, I got to say something less sexy, like, look, I think you should lift weights a few times a week. I'll hit all the major muscle groups, most, you know, do for a few sets that make you feel kind of uncomfortable, but not maximal. And then you should do conditioning throughout the week also, and get your heart rate up kind of to the point where you feel like you can't speak in complete sentences or sing a song. And you should do that for a couple hours a week, too. And they're like, well, that's the, that doesn't feel very individualized. I'm like, well, no, that's to the broad public. I need to know your goals and you know, your current fitness level, your preferences, your resources, all sorts of stuff to make you an individualized program. But just because you're going through menopause doesn't mean that you need a special program. And doesn't mean that you're not going to respond as well to the program. That's not what the evidence says. Latest meta analysis, 101 studies, like 101 Dalmatians investigating this. It's like, please, I understand that having, having work with professionally women experiencing menopause, I understand and can empathize that, that a lot of things are changing, but it does not mean that your exercise response is blunted or that you need specific exercise to deal with that. Again, reducing somebody down to what's happening hormonally, I think misses a lot of, of patient, of what's going on with the patient. It's not very holistic also, which, you know, to use a buzzword, you would think root cause people, holistic people would just reject this. They'd be like, what, just hormones? Come on. I think when we look at where this conversation went and the kind of deep dive into explaining it in a, in a way that, that is really hard to follow, you know, there was a discussion about muscle fiber type differences and myokines. I'm like, why are we talking about myokines? Yeah. Glute four, the glute four receptor. I'm like, but don't get it wrong though. If you're going to go into the weed, don't get it wrong because nerds like us are going to find, we're going to find you. Yeah. And I think it's harmful to then spin this rhetoric as if it ignores the abundance of knowledge we have about muscle, muscle adaptations. It also ignores all of the stuff we don't really know and the complexity of the individual contributions. Like how are all of these interacting with each other? You know, what even is a myokine and do we even, have we identified all of these specific functions of them in humans? No. So that's a, an interesting discussion, but is the next thing out of your mouth going to be, and here's my myokine specific training program? That's excellent. Okay. Before we rate this on the, on the BS and the harm scale, I did, I have to point these two things out. They did talk about muscle fiber types. First, Dr. Vonderai claimed that lighter loads only build endurance and that she's also doing tempo work now to replace the explosive muscle fibers that she's lost. Because people have to remember what we're, what we're training for now. It's different than I had a woman recently say I was taught to do biceps curls, five pounds, 30 times. Well, after 30 times, not only are you bored, but you'll probably be at failure 30 times that will build endurance. I am training to be as strong as possible. And when I'm a, when I have strength down, then I start playing with tempo so that I could build, replace some of the explosive muscle fibers that I'm going to lose over time. So to be clear, pretty much any sort of resistance training at almost any intensity can build strength, but sure. If you want to say that maximal strength development happens at higher intensity, higher load lifting, you know, somewhere above 65%, 70% of your one rep max, greater than like a 15 to 20 rep max load. Sure. We would not disagree. We'd say, yep, that squares. But to say that like lighter load only builds like strength endurance or endurance period, that's just not consistent. Like blood flow restriction training would like a word. Uh, one, two, just, there's other studies where people are literally using, you know, 30%, 50%, and there's still some strength gain. And it's like, well, how did that happen? It's like, well, it turns out the body is relatively sensitive to mechanotransduction. Like it will just use, you, you make the muscles do stuff and we readily adapt. Um, yeah. Did you, you want to say anything more on the, uh, explosive muscle fiber, uh, replacement theory right here? It's like, this implies that there is some optimal distribution of fiber type that we should be striving for. Right. So, you know, if you, and, and is it 50, 50, I don't know. Um, but let's, let's say it's 50, 50, and that's really what we want. What we know is if you are a high level endurance athlete, you're a marathon runner, you're probably going to have a distribution that looks quite different from somebody who's a high level Olympic weightlifter because you are training in a sports specific way. And there are different adaptations associated with those very unique training styles. So that doesn't mean, Oh, in, in that, in that context, who has a, who has a bad distribution skewed fiber type distribution, well, that's, that's not a thing. It's just a sports specific adaptation. And so we, we shouldn't be worrying about this first of all, because if there are differences, they're quite small. We're talking, it's roughly 50, 50, and maybe it's skewing a few percentage points in one direction or the other, but it also depends. What muscle are we measuring and what type of analysis are we doing? And are we accounting for hybrid fibers, which many analyses do not? And so we can go deep down into the rabbit hole of why I'm not even comfortable making the claim that there are definitive, meaningful sex differences in this topic. But even if there were, it wouldn't change my recommendation that you should be doing goal oriented training, because there's no evidence that your muscle fiber type distribution is somehow predictive of your long-term health. No, no. If anything, if it's predictive of anything, it's what sport you might end up selecting into, right? Like you select the sports based on the, the, the muscle fiber type distribution. But yeah, Sims says men have more fast twitch muscle fibers than women who have more slow twitch muscle fibers. Again, insinuating that not, not only is this, um, a large difference, but also there's an important difference to take into consideration. Well, look, we're all born with a set amount of muscle, muscle fibers, uh, right. Like, you know, and then men's tend to get much bigger due to puberty. Right. And that's why, that's why men end up being stronger. It's not because they have more fast twitch or slow twitch. It's not because the muscle fibers, the specific tension that the muscle fibers themselves can produce. Women don't have dysfunctional muscles. Women do not have dysfunctional muscles compared to men. Men just on average have more muscle mass. That's the big difference. And so if Sims straight up said that, that'd be one accurate. And two, we could ignore this entire thing about muscle fiber type. Like, why does this matter? It does not determine training, does not determine, uh, health of an individual. And then she gets it wrong too. Because again, when you look at the data, again, as you mentioned, depends on the muscle that you measure, how you measure this sort of stuff. But generally speaking, the differences are either not there or very, very small. And, and the methodology really kind of influences this, but men and women generally have the same muscle fiber type distribution. Men tend to be stronger than women, but it's not because women have a dysfunctional muscle. It's just men have more muscle mass. That's it. Just say that and move on. And if we have any evidence that there might be some connection between fiber type and health, it's the, the hybrid fibers might be the problematic ones because we're, you're, it's sedentary disease state. You're seeing more hybrids. And so what's the message? You need to exercise. You should just exercise. Yeah. Yeah. In fact, there is a, there was this case report. It was, uh, they've identified the highest fiber type distribution in favor of fast, which muscle fibers was 70. This person was 71%. Well, the one muscle, uh, that they investigated was 71% type two fast, twitch. And it was a woman, international Olympic weightlifter. And it's like, there you go. What's put that in your pipe and smoke it? No, it's just, uh, this is, uh, uh, it was just annoying to listen to. Cause again, why are we talking about this? And it's, it's something that nobody can measure and nobody can track over time. So, so in, in that ways, it's like, um, you, you don't even know whether it's the thing that you're supposed to be doing to fix this problem. That doesn't even exist is working because what are you doing? Like, there's no, there's no way for you to assess it. All right. Let's, uh, let's rate the, uh, muscle fiber type, the menopause discussions, all this muscle centric stuff on the BS. Uh, I'm going to give it a five out of five again on the BS, mainly because again, almost everything said around this relating to exercise and reducing things down to hormone is wrong. So like just the straight up, it's just wrong. And muscle, the muscle fiber type thing was also wrong. So like, I don't know how you go lower than a five, but do you feel differently? No, it was all the only thing that I, that I liked about it was no, I didn't like anything about this section. Yeah. Wow. Uh, okay. What are you giving this on the, uh, on the harm scale? Well, this is just as harmful as a lot of the other, as the other sections in my mind, because again, all I come away from this section is confused. I'm more confused after this than I was in the previous section, because now I thought I was supposed to do sprint interval training and lift weights. But now everything is changing at menopause. You can't really understand why I need to focus on recovery. And there's all of this really complex stuff going on in the muscle that I don't understand. You're using words that I don't understand. Um, I mean, you know, referencing random myokines and random proteins and, um, to, to, to come away with what message, what was the message? Don't look at me. I have no idea. I have no idea what these people are talking about. I watched it twice, probably collectively all the way through, like in, in, in pieces and such. Um, I don't get it. I don't like, I was trying to put myself as like a lay person just watching this. And I'm like, is this compelling or like interesting or entertaining? And I think, I suspect if you were a woman and you're watching this and like the, the initial sort of thing that locked you in, lured you in, hooked you was like, a lot of people are dismissing women's symptoms and experiences. I get that. I get that. But man, then you sat through another like five hours of this shit. I just like a hats off to you for the commitment to the bit. But like, I don't understand the, yeah. Um, I'm going to give it. I'll tell you, I'll tell you because, um, I was on, um, Simon Hill's podcast recently and he, uh, as he has had Stacey on. And so there, there were definitely a lot of Sims fans in the comments and the criticism of, of me was that I sound less knowledgeable. Well, yeah. Cause you don't say definitive things that we can't say definitively. Right. I mean, and also I don't speak in a way that is going to go over people's heads because I think that's poor science communication. So although I could do that, I could make it sound as complicated as possible to make myself feel what smart. Cause I can use a big word. Cool. I, uh, I don't see the utility in doing that. You're just confusing people. Uh, if we can say it in a clearer way, let's do it. Like if we can use an analogy, let's use it. Um, so the, it's like the sciencey speak coupled with the, I have a secret that you couldn't possibly know that apparently no one else knows either in the scientific community or the medical community. Yeah. That that's, it's marketable. Perhaps cause it doesn't exist. Yeah. I'm going to give it three and a half out of five on the harm scale, mainly because I think when they were talking mostly about hormones and mechanisms and glute four and myokines and fiber type, I think most people perhaps like they're doing now, their eyes just glazed over and they were like, I don't know what you're saying. So like, so all it was, was just a waste of time. Like, right. Uh, and then further because, because none of it made sense, then there's no like actionable item there. The only reason I'm giving it such a high harm scale is because this idea about focusing on recovery during menopause. And I'm like, so the biggest change that happens during menopause with respect to exercise and subsequent exercise adaptations is that people exercise less. So like then if the message that you take away is focusing on recovery, I'm like, I think focusing on exercising as much as you possibly can to the extent that you can tolerate it physiologically and, you know, uh, and so, so on and so forth. But yeah, I'm giving it three and a half out of five on a harm scale. Yeah. I just think menopause misinformation is having a moment and, um, that, and that is unfortunate because we have the data on muscle loss with age and it's pretty similar whether you're a man or a woman and it's not accelerated in the menopause transition. And that's true for metabolism as well. And we have a lot of studies on older people who start lifting weights in their eighties and they are even gaining muscle, which is so cool. And that's a really positive message. But instead of harnessing all of this into saying, you know what, resistance training is always effective and it's never too late to start. We then say you are a woman, it's massively complicated. Menopause is slowly destroying you from the inside out. And here's a random record and therefore like jump up and down 10 times a day. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Straight legs though. You have to lay on straight legs. Okay. So we've established that your muscles don't stop working just because you hit menopause, but the podcast didn't stop at training. They pivoted to diet, specifically the idea that women are so hormonally fragile that skipping a few meals might give them a cortisol belly. Here's Dr. Sim's take on fasting and why Dr. Kalenzo Semple and I think it misses the forest for the trees. Dr. I've had an evolution with the way I think about fasting. When I first kind of, you know, was stepping out of the box and what's happening in menopause and why was my body composition, I didn't know what to call it back then, but what was all this going on that was new? And all my patients were having it as well. And these were my girlfriends. I work in a small town with a big university and these are PhDs and we're running marathons. We're doing all this stuff and everyone's kind of complaining of the same thing. And so fasting seemed to be helpful. And my girlfriends were trying, we all kind of did this fasting thing and I was like super excited about it. Everybody felt better, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. Okay. So fast forward, I'm learning more about hormones, body composition, protein intake, all of these needs. And suddenly as I'm counseling my patients, I'm realizing I can't meet my own protein goals if I'm trying to fast at the same time. And I quickly realized if we're looking at health span, if we're looking at body composition, there may not be a lot of room for fasting for these patients, you know, or for my girlfriends, you know, and it is really difficult for my patients to reach their nutrition goals. So never at the expense of meeting your basic nutrition goals and your calorie needs. And it is really, really hard to do while fasting. So you may get a short-term benefit with weight loss, but there really doesn't know. Dr. Sims can get into the nitty gritty of all, you know, all the basic idea of fasting. If we want to use the term fasting, we have to look at it as, are we talking about intermittent fasting or time restricted eating? So intermittent fasting is kind of like, you know, your water fast, your five day, two day, all that kind of crazy stuff, which for the most part men can get away with and have a positive impact on body composition, but women can't. It's typically about 12 hours of eating and 12 hours of not. So you're trying to follow that circadian rhythm and work with your hormones. It can also, when we do have that period of time, which maybe that sounds very intuitive, but a lot of people are eating at 10 PM, they're snacking on food, then they're trying to go to bed and then they're getting up when you give your body a little bit longer. So at 12 hours time is when your body will really efficiently be using up all your glucose, really dropping some of those insulin levels, but it's not so much that it's stressful and we're using stress very generically here, but on a cellular level, long periods of fasting for women specifically can be very stressful to the body. And that's why if you think about Stacey's example of what happened in two fasting periods to, you know, a man and a woman, different things are going to happen to your body. If it thinks it's being in starvation, men can, you said that men can do longer fasts and it can show to actually, you know, be something that might be advantageous for them for how their body is made, might increase their focus and some other metrics. But for women, these longer periods are actually going to promote more visceral fat storage and become pro-inflammatory. And you said it a little casually, but disrupting your hypothalamus and shutting off your hormone system will cause a low estrogen state. And that's very problematic as we've talked about. Let's start with this cortisol situation because I just had to, I just had a, it wasn't an argument, it was a discussion. The woman in my gym, very kind, very nice. And I would consider reasonably intelligent. Her coach had her do this full hormone workup, uh, when they started. So she got, uh, her, um, cortisol tested in addition to like testosterone, a bunch of weird thyroid labs. And by the way, her coach is not a physician or a healthcare professional in any, yeah, but you know, that details. And she, this woman's like, I'm not drinking coffee cause my cortisol is high. And I was like, who told you your cortisol is high? She's like, well, I had a measure. And I'm like, when did you have a measure? She's like, well, it was in the morning and I got one, one, a lab draw. And I was like, yeah, so that's not how we test for hyper cortisol. And when it's not how we assess cortisol levels, it's more complicated than that. There's no current consensus on how to do it, but usually like a 24 hour urine collection, you can do a dexamethasone suppression. There's a bunch of different ways. We have a whole series on this. It's more complicated than that. I, I can't tell from your lab value that you have high cortisol. No, by the way, I'm not worried about what coffee does to your cortisol level. This is not cortisol is not the thing to focus on for you. I feel confident in saying that anyway. What is that? What the hell is all this fasting stuff about with being hyper focused on cortisol? Like, is there any chance that people who are doing either intermittent fasting where they skip breakfast, don't eat till lunch, or they do some other sort of time restricted feeding window where, you know, more calories in the, in the early parts of the day, and then they fast overnight, you know, whatever. Is there any chance that this is increasing people's cortisol to a level that is pathological? We have no data to support that claim or the claim that somehow you're going to store more visceral fat. In a calorie deficit, no less. The fasting literature is quite clear that it's not magic and that it's a tool you can use to create a calorie deficit. And it can be an effective tool for people. You have a shorter eating window, you end up eating less, you've created the calorie deficit, and that works. So if there was somehow a connection between this and visceral fat, like people were increasing their visceral fat over 16 weeks of time restricted feeding, then, I mean, that would be shocking, but we would have that data and we don't. Like it's an effective weight loss strategy if you're using it appropriately. Yeah. Yeah. It's just another tool to create a calorie deficit. Does not appear to be advantageous insofar as either more people are able to achieve clinically significant weight loss with it or otherwise adhere to it. But if it's somebody's preference, I'm fine with it. But this idea that women respond somehow differently to this and their cortisol levels.  autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo claims, I think it's all BS. The stuff that happens short-term hormonally, generally speaking, to me is uninteresting from a human outcome standpoint. I feel that way about pre-training hormonal milieu. I feel that way about post-training hormonal milieu. I feel that way about when people are fasting for short periods of time. I'm more concerned about what happens long-term. I think that's where most people should spend their attention. That's where they should focus their attention. The last claim, and I'll get you to weigh in on this, the idea that if you were a woman and you do intermittent fasting, you're at a high risk. Dr. Crawford said this. You're at a high risk of not eating enough. The idea that low energy availability is going to ... It's like, well, if more people don't lose weight on intermittent fasting compared to any other dietary practice, if that's what the data says, then how is there an increased risk of low energy availability or insufficient nutrient consumption? Yeah. I think I don't understand why we're kind of borrowing from the low energy availability literature, which is a true problem that some people have, but we're seeing this in athletes who are doing a lot of exercise and who are probably not fueling to support that level of activity. Or maybe they're trying to stay at a low body fat or low weight for performance related reasons. And that's sort of the population that is typically affected by this. Now, the idea that most women are affected by low energy availability is just insane. Because if that were true, then, I mean, we wouldn't have any overweight women, first of all. We can say long-term fasting does increase cortisol levels. We can say that if you are doing a ton of exercise and not eating at all, then that is probably not a good idea overall for your health, for your daily nutrient needs, for performance, for a variety of reasons, right? We can say if you are somebody who does have chronically elevated cortisol levels and you have been diagnosed with Cushing's, that maybe you are having some changes in your body composition and we're seeing more weight around your midsection and that's your cortisol belly and maybe there's like that kernel of truth. But we're now packaging this by borrowing from all of these scenarios that are irrelevant to most people. And then we're saying, and therefore, no fasted training. Right. Doesn't make sense. It's not evidence-based. It's just like every time the intermittent fasting has been investigated, effectively just rebuts everything that's being said about it. Even like the late, one of these more recent meta-analyses on this show that fasting didn't have any effect on estrogen, prolactin levels, gonadotropins. Another recent study showed that it actually didn't really affect cortisol as much as we would otherwise predict. I mean, it's just, it's just dynamic. There's a lot of stuff going on here. So I'm just rejecting it. So the RDA recommendations of 0.8 grams per kilogram is survival doses of protein, like sitting on a chair like a mushroom. Preventing malnutrition is the goal of it. Yeah. It is not for active people. It is not for living your best life, people. 0.8. The recommended daily intake is 0.8 grams per kilogram of lean body mass. So it's low. It's very low. So the research supports, easily supports, let's use pounds, 0.86 grams per pound for lifting people. I recommend over a gram, a gram for ideal pound. Dr. Vonda Wright talked about protein intake. She said that you shouldn't be eating the RDA recommended protein intake because it's made for people who are sitting on a chair like mushrooms. Just the first time I heard that, that saying. So add that to the lexicon. She recommended one gram of protein per pound. And then later said, no, it's one gram of protein per pound, ideal body weight. How much protein do people need? If we're talking to the general public, then I think everybody agrees the RDA is a little bit too low. So that 0.8. But when we bump it up to 1.2, 1.3, that seems to be helpful. There's a benefit there. What does that mean? For most people, eat protein with each meal. Maybe throw in a protein shake if you're struggling to get a sufficient portion of protein with each meal. If we're starting to quibble about 1.6 or 1.8 grams per kilogram, by the way, not we're not talking pounds. Then you can say, oh, perhaps a slightly higher level is better if you're somebody who's really trying to maximize muscle growth. Maybe. But the idea that we would need more protein to fuel our activity because we are physically active, we're doing our four sprint interval a couple of times a week. We're not using protein as fuel. So that just completely misses the point about what is the purpose of dietary protein and how are we using it in physical activity? We're not. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, who is this advice to and like what's the application, right? I mean, if you look at most data we have on protein consumption in the United States for adults, it's higher than the RDA as it is right now. So depending on who you read, it could be anywhere between 0.9 to 1, 1.1 grams per kilo per day. But we just eat a lot of protein, mostly, unfortunately, through the way of like processed foods, which not great. So if you tell somebody just increase their dietary protein, most people will take that to mean like, OK, more chicken, more egg, just these generally minimally processed or unprocessed foods, which can be useful for displacing processed foods and other things that tend to be more energy dense and so on and so forth. But that said, strictly speaking, most people don't need to eat that much more protein. To your point, it's an extra protein shake a day. And in fact, if I was making like this public recommendation, it's like, yeah, you look, you need to lift weights a few times a week. All the major muscle groups of the body. Make sure that you take a few sets for each each muscle group to somewhere that feels kind of uncomfortable. You need to do two, two and a half hours of conditioning per week, whichever modality you prefer. It should be kind of hard, but not so challenging where you can't speak in short sentences and you should have an extra protein shake every day. And it's like, well, I just wrapped up five and a half hours of nonsense into something that is not only accurate, but also like, you know, public facing. So, yeah, most people would benefit from like an extra protein shake or extra serving of protein per day to the extent that taking protein up higher is would be better is either from displacing again, ultra processed foods for people who are currently eating a dietary pattern that's rich in those or for very active, very lean, hard training individuals. Sure, higher than that. But they're not listening to this freaking podcast about protein intake anyway. So, like, you know, and how how high can you go much higher? But saying a gram per pound, it's already a little high. And then a gram per pound, ideal body weight without defining what ideal body weight is. And further, when the none of the evidence on protein intake is about ideal body weight, it's just it's just total body weight. Some people said, oh, no, it's got to be your lean mass. And I'm like. Pork, where where is the data on that? Like, like if you wanted to say that because somebody maybe is an individual with obesity, for example, and their body weight is quite high and you wanted to make some sort of recommendation. I get that. But saying that that's like the general rec for everybody, like this inconsistent with the evidence. Well, it's also not a very practical recommendation because most people don't have access to that. We've got to measure it. So you've got to get a DEXA. If you want to work together, you've got to get a DEXA scan first and only then and a VO2 max. And we've got to get your cortisol level tested, too, because that's how we're going to we're going to dial you in. You brought up an interesting point earlier that a lot of this discussion around hormones really leads to a lot of unnecessary hormone testing done by people who don't really understand why or how to interpret the results. Or the huge influence of measurement technique, like the assay that you're using, it might not it might just make it kind of a garbage assessment, like testosterone for women. But by measuring more things and making it more complicated and presenting it as like we have this sort of secret sauce where if we have more data, then we can be more granular in our recommendations. Kind of misses the mark on tracking metrics that we actually do know are important. Like if you want to track your progress in the gym to make sure that you are progressively overloading, then that's good. If you're trying to eat fewer calories, then perhaps tracking your calories, at least for a short period of time, can be an effective strategy. But there are obvious things that we might want to encourage people to measure and worrying about these acute or day to day hormone fluctuations, whether it's menstrual cycle or longer term menopause transition or even shorter term with cortisol. We're focusing on the wrong things. Yeah. Yeah, I agree. It does sound sexy. It does sound compelling, especially to the lay public. It's like, oh, this is doctor speak. I'm interested in doctor speak. And that, you know, look, I mean, medical dramas and TV show that's very they're very popular. So there's something there. I get it from a marketing standpoint. But, yeah, I agree. Missing missing the forest for the trees. And in some cases, the trees are actually not trees at all. They're just mistaking them for trees. Just kind of a weird thing. We're going to shift gears now. Up until this point, the misinformation has mostly been about wasting your time in the gym or stressing you out about meal timing. But now we're moving into medical advice that could actually cause harm by scaring women away from effective health care. The viral episode made some terrifying claims about IUDs and birth control causing bone loss and essentially, quote, shutting down a woman's system. Now, to address this, I tagged in Dr. Lorraine Baraki to look at the specific claims regarding IUDs and the birth control pill. Certainly circumstances where that is the right thing to do. We've had IUDs in practice for a really long time. For the majority of this, we were only placing them in women after they had given birth at least once because of their size and being able to pass them through the cervix. Now we have different options and we are offering them to women younger, which is wonderful. Wonderful. However, when we're putting IUDs in the uterus of women who are really young, sometimes the progesterone dose in them is so high that it is preventing ovulation. And we are seeing young women who are not ovulating and they are not making estrogen, therefore. And they don't even really realize it because that's not disclosed as one of the main mechanisms of a progesterone IUD because it doesn't happen in enough people to effectively prevent conception that way. It works through the inflammation, the cervical mucus changes. And why does that matter? Because if you are not ovulating and you're not making estrogen, you are going to have low libido, low energy. You're not going to build your bones during critical years. Let's say the IUD lasts five to seven years. You're 18 to 25. These are some of the most critical years in your mental health, your bone health, your cardiac health. And being low estrogen during that time is going to set you up on a different risk trajectory for your entire life. And the worst thing here about the progesterone IUD is that because of the progesterone, which will thin the lining, many women just say, I don't have my period because my lining is so thin. And that's the side effect of the IUD. If that same woman was not ovulating and came to me and said, I haven't had a period in seven years and I knew she was low estrogen and not ovulating, we're highly concerned about her health. But because she has an IUD, what happens? Well, that's a side effect of the IUD. No big deal. I'll start by saying that the claims made regarding the levonorgestrel IUD show a fundamental misunderstanding of how these devices work. The claim I'm referring to is that the IUD shuts down estrogen and therefore stops bone building. This is taken from what we just listened to, to quote specifically, sometimes the progesterone dose is so high that it is preventing ovulation. We're seeing young women who are not ovulating and they are not making estrogen. Therefore, you're not going to build your bones during critical years. Referring to the years, the ages between 18 and 25. And so just to put this in a bit of context, I will say that the key to understanding the mechanism of the progesterone IUD is its local action. The IUD releases a very low dose of the hormone levonorgestrel and it releases it directly to the uterine lining. The hormone concentration in the rest of your body or the systemic level remains extremely low. How is ovulation affected by this? Well, the IUD's primary job is to create changes in the uterine lining and cervical mucus to prevent sperm from fertilizing an egg. The majority of women, up to 80%, who use the levonorgestrel IUD continue to ovulate and produce their own natural systemic estrogen and progesterone. It's also worth noting that estrogen, primarily estradiol in our bodies, continues to be produced by the ovaries during the use of ovulation suppressing hormonal contraceptives, though at lower levels than in ovulatory cycles. Studies showed that during active use of combined oral contraceptives, for example, which consistently suppress ovulation, in contrast to this IUD, which only occasionally suppresses ovulation, estradiol levels are significantly suppressed compared to natural cycles, but they are measurable. They do persist, and that reflects ongoing, though diminished, follicular activity. So it's a bit misleading to paint a picture that is all or none, in this case, with the production of estrogen. Now, let's address the topic of bone health in women using the levonorgestrel IUD. Because ovulation typically persists, natural estrogen production continues, which protects the bones. The studies on levonorgestrel IUDs have overwhelmingly found no clinically significant reduction in bone mineral density, even in young women in their critical bone-building years, as referenced before, the ages of 18 to 25. The uterus localized actions of the levonorgestrel IUD differ from a systemic form of progesterone-only contraception, like the Depo-Provera shot, which reliably suppresses ovulation in nearly all users and is associated with temporary, though typically reversible, bone mineral density loss. The key here is systemic progesterone-inhibiting ovulation and estrogen production without concurrent exogenous estrogen, as in combined birth control pills, which is protective to the bones. The next claim that I wanted to address is that the IUD could mask a serious health problem. And the quote that this claim comes from is, the worst thing here about the progesterone IUD is that because of the progesterone, many women just say, I don't have my period. If that same woman was not ovulating and came to me and said, I haven't had my period in seven years, we're highly concerned about her health. The reality here is that this point is only a partial truth. The contributor in this case fails to differentiate between two very different situations that are worth pointing out. The first situation would be amenorrhea, or the absence of a period with a progesterone IUD. In this case, the IUD's local hormone intentionally thins the uterine lining, which is why most users have much lighter bleeding or no bleeding, also referred to as amenorrhea, like I mentioned. When a woman with an IUD doesn't have a period, we know why. It is an expected side effect of a device releasing a low-dose local hormone. The other situation to differentiate from the first would be amenorrhea with no known cause. The example the speaker gives, a woman who hasn't had a period in seven years for an unknown reason, i.e. does not have an intrauterine device that is leading to this, to the lack of a period, is an entirely different, potentially detrimental scenario. That lack of a period signals an underlying issue, like low energy availability, excessive training, or premature ovarian insufficiency, which occurs in 1 to 3 percent of women. That warrants prompt investigation. The concern that the IUD is masking a serious, rare condition like premature ovarian insufficiency is small when weighed against the massive benefit of the IUD's extremely high effectiveness for preventing pregnancy or its use in treating pathological, life-disrupting menstrual symptoms. In short, counseling should acknowledge the masking risk, but it should not be used as a reason to forego one of the most effective contraceptive methods available. The second clip we're going to watch relates to the use of hormonal contraceptives, including birth control pills, as well as other forms. The birth control pill can prevent ovulation, therefore prevent some women from being in terrible pain. If you have PCOS, they're often handed out like candy. One reason is because it will regulate your cycle so that you don't have these prolonged irregular periods, but also will decrease testosterone levels, which is sometimes a good side effect of the pill for women who have PCOS. Back to a normal. Yeah. But if you don't have PCOS or the regular person, a lot of times your body's tissues are not responding to synthetic estrogen and progesterone the same way it does to natural. I think that's a very important point. So my niece, who competes at a national level, and she's 14, started suffering from, as she was going through her adolescence, her acne got outrageous. And she's a 14-year-old girl, started at 12 and a half. And, of course, she goes to the dermatologist, and they're trying some topicals. And then finally, as you go down the algorithm for how we treat acne, one of the off-label uses is birth control pills will lower the testosterone. Their skin can clear up. So her father, a little concern comes to me. Her mom passed away. Her stepmom had passed away, so he didn't have the mom in the house, you know, the immediate mom to talk to. And for the first time, I immediately thought of her athletic performance. Thank you, Dr. Sims. And I thought, she wants to go to the Olympics. There's no way I'm going to let her testosterone levels drop. Like, we're going to throw everything topical at this. And we finally found the right combination. Her skin looks great. She's super happy. But, like, the next logical thing was to put this 14-year-old, you know, on a birth control pill to get her acne under control, which is the end result. But what no one's thinking of is her athletic performance. How is it going to affect her? The training years leading into it. And her training years. Like, this is critical for her. 16 is when the next trials are up for her. Yep. So that's two years from now. So we were able to get her acne under control, avoid the birth control pill. But that was nothing I'd ever thought of before. Let's tackle some of the common claims we hear about hormonal contraception, especially for young female athletes. The idea that birth control is inherently detrimental to performance, bone health, or hormonal health is widespread, as we just heard. But the evidence tells a more nuanced story. The first myth to bust, so to speak, would be that hormonal contraception ruins performance. The claim from this clip was that the next logical thing was to put this 14-year-old on a birth control pill. But what no one's thinking of is her athletic performance. And the reality is that hormonal contraception does not substantially impair or enhance sports performance at a population level. The overwhelming scientific evidence shows that starting hormonal contraception does not confer a performance downgrade. That being said, individual responses and side effects should be considered in counseling and training plans. However, it's not enough to just look at the science. We should also consider contextual factors that can influence others, including adolescents in their sports performance. Coaches, parents, trainers, would do well to avoid the nocebo effect when it comes to this topic. If you tell a young woman her performance will suffer because of the pill, she might believe it, and her performance could, in fact, drop, regardless of the physiology. So I'd say that it's best to be supportive and set positive expectations, especially in the absence of any compelling data that would imply otherwise. The next myth to address here is that bone density will diminish or disappear in women taking birth control pills. And this is a major exaggeration. Estrogen is crucial for bone health as it helps to maintain and build bone. Combined hormonal contraceptives, which contain estrogen, generally have a neutral or even mildly beneficial effect on bone density in adults. For adolescents, the nuance is important. And that is that starting combined hormonal contraceptive soon after menarche or the first period may temporarily slow the speed at which the body builds peak bone mass. But to suggest that healthy women are left with no bone density is fear-mongering, and it is not supported by data. Consistent training, adequate nutrition, and avoiding gonadotoxins like cigarette smoke and certain drug regimens are the biggest drivers of long-term bone health, in fact. And the next topic to address or myth to bust is that combined hormonal contraceptives shut off testosterone. The combination of claims that this came from were, first, there's no way I'm going to let her testosterone levels drop. That was in reference to the adolescent niece. And we're going to shut off our testosterone because it makes us feel better. In reference to women who take hormonal contraceptives, presumably to reduce symptoms of hyperandrogenism, such as acne and excessively oily skin, that is a presumption, as that speaker referenced PCOS specifically. And the reality is that these claims are misleading because it confuses total testosterone with bioavailable or free testosterone. So let's talk about what combined hormonal contraceptives actually do. The estrogen in these combined hormonal options increases a protein called sex hormone binding globulin. That's made in our livers. Think of sex hormone binding globulin as a taxi service for hormones. The result is when you have more sex hormone binding globulin taxis, they pick up the free testosterone in your bloodstream. This means that you have less unbound testosterone available to interact with tissues like muscle, bone, and skin. This is why doctors prescribe combined hormonal contraceptives for conditions like severe acne. Since unbound testosterone affects the skin in ways that lead to increased skin oil production and acne. So what is the impact on performance? Well, when women taking combined hormonal contraceptives have less free testosterone, studies actually do not show a clinically significant impact on strength or sports performance. We cannot simplistically apply male performance models to female physiology, specifically that we will run faster or lift more weight linearly with higher levels of bioavailable testosterone. Women are not little men, and our bodies respond differently to changes in androgens. Pivoting away from myth-busting of some of the claims made on this podcast, I'd like to emphasize the importance of focusing on the individual. Beyond the science, we have to consider the lived experience of the athlete in this case. And I would maintain that quality of life is a significant performance factor. If an adolescent is suffering from severe acne, this can have a detrimental impact on self-worth and confidence. If an adolescent is suffering from heavy or irregular periods, it can be difficult or impossible to train or compete at all due to pain, hygiene needs, or flooding, which refers to bleeding through one's clothing. Combined hormonal contraceptives can be a tool that allows them to fully participate in their sport and life without distraction. The care we provide to adolescents and adults alike must be informed by evidence and prioritize the individual's goals and priorities above all else. Huge thanks to Dr. Lorraine Baraki for clearing that up. Finally, we couldn't review a modern health podcast without touching on the elephant in the room. Zempic, Manjaro, and GLP-1 agonist. The viral clip framed these drugs as a potentially scary way out or scary alternative to the gym. Talking about muscle loss, bone loss, and when they would actually take patients off of these medications. So we asked Vineyard's Dr. Spencer Nadolsky, a lipid and obesity expert, to weigh in on these claims. So if you give them the Zempic, but they still don't go to the gym, they still don't do anything else? Then we'll stop giving it to you. They won't be healthy. Okay, I want to stop there. She says that we're going to stop giving them the medicine. Imagine if you have type 2 diabetes, insulin-dependent type 2 diabetes, where you're so insulin resistant that you need insulin on top of a GLP-1 receptor agonist and other medicines. And because they are not following some sort of lifestyle plan that you give them, you say, I'm going to stop giving you your insulin. That's the same analogy. Or if a patient is on a statin drug.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop and lift all these weights, Stacey, and I can, which, you know, Vonda, I don't, yeah, it's hard, isn't it? Go to the gym, I have to put my shoes on, all these, all these things, or I can take this injection. And lose all your muscle and lose your bone and end up like the little floating figure in Wally movie that I've talked about before, right? And that's, that's my fear of just blanket people use. But you're also, whether you mean to or not, giving the illusion that, you know, willpower is all you need to lose weight, right? By what you said, right? I can either do these hard things, or I can choose this medication, which appears to be the easier way out. And two things can be true at once. People can work extremely hard. Maybe they don't understand exactly what they should be doing. And that's part of what we're trying to change the discussion on. So in our clinic, it is an hour long. Now they're coming in to discuss the GLP-1 option. It is an hour long visit of risks, benefits, side effects, protein intake, resistance, training, mandatory. We will follow your bone density. We will follow your bone mass. I mean, your muscle mass. I love what Dr. Crawford is saying right here, because she's pointing out this false dichotomy that you can either go this easy way out with ozempic or other GLP-1 receptor agonists, or you can do it the hard way, which is lifting weights. Dr. Stacey is saying, oh, you're going to lose all your bone and muscle if you take the easy way out. You got to do it the hard way. It's a false dichotomy. Of course, you can use both together. And I'd like to point out, though, that the issue with obesity is appetite dysregulation, where these medicines really help normalize and resolve that, or at least minimize the appetite dysregulation and improve the appetite regulation. That makes it difficult to actually do the things that people know what to do. They just have troubles doing them, such as eating a healthier dietary pattern and actually doing the exercise, especially when they're thinking about food all the time and they have a lot of weight and maybe it's difficult to do that exercise. So I like that Dr. Crawford really pointed out right here. It's like, hey, this is a false dichotomy. People need these medicines to be able to do the activities that you're discussing. It's not an either or. I want to go into this idea of bone loss with the GLP-1 receptor agonists. This has been studied pretty well. And in fact, there's some data that some of the new GLP-1 slash GIP receptor co-agonists may actually have protective effects on the bone. So there's no data to show that people are losing massive amounts of bone from using these medicines. It's a concern from losing a lot of weight in general, but there may be something protective about this co-receptor agonism that we see with at least terzepatide and maybe some of the newer drugs. There's nothing specifically about the GLP-1 by itself that seems to be catabolic about bone other than the calorie deficit. So we don't hear people getting really upset about people that just diet without exercise. They're saying it specifically about these medicines, which is a form of weight by recommendation and C. I love what Dr. Crawford's saying here as well. I do think we need comprehensive care around GLP-1 receptor prescriptions. We should be touching base with people, making sure they're not losing weight too quickly, making sure that if we can, helping them exercise. But we shouldn't also gatekeep if they can't exercise or won't or not willing to exercise, as I mentioned before. If people take GLP-1 receptor agonists and there is a good indication for them and they don't lift weights or eat in a way that we want them to, they're very likely, in fact, they're most likely, almost 100% going to improve their health. So they're not going to become unhealthier from taking one of these amazing efficacious medicines with a poor lifestyle. If they don't do the lifestyle that we recommend them, they will still get healthier indeed. Glycemic improvements, weight loss, of course, improvements in obstructive sleep apnea, liver health, and even cardioprotective nature of the drug will help them reduce risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. So I don't like this posing like if you don't do the lifestyle that we promote and you just take the drug, you're not going to get healthier. In fact, you're going to get unhealthy. That's not true. We want to promote healthy lifestyle, but the reality is not everybody is going to do it. And so that's behavior change and the issues with behavior change. I will say anecdotally, I noticed that patients, once you give them medicine, they're able to do the things that they already knew to do, but just couldn't do it before. And that is a wrap on our review. Look, the reason we spent two episodes breaking this down isn't to be haters. It's because when you mix valid science terms like myokines or cortisol with fear-based storytelling, it can paralyze people. If you take one thing away from this episode, you are not fragile. Menopause does not mean you stop adapting to exercise. Your IUD is not eating your bones. And if you're a woman, you can fast and not get cortisol belly. If you want to support evidence-based content that empowers rather than scares, leave us a review and share this episode. For Dr. Lauren Colenzo-Semple, the Barackis, and Dr. Nadolsky, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. See you next time. Have a great day. Thank you.

=== FILE: Miami 2020 Q⧸A： What Big Pharma Doesn't Want You to Know [EZn5qc0hnJA].txt ===

Welcome back to the Barrel Medicine YouTube channel. We bring modern medicine to strength conditioning, and strengthening conditioning to modern medicine. We're in Miami, Florida, hybrid, first seminar, 2020. That's the first time that's happened. Yeah, thanks, guys. Thank you. So we're going to do a Q&A here. Cultivate, we have curated questions. Austin picked him out. His fault if your question didn't get answered. If it didn't get answered and he still have this burning query, please post up on our forum or Facebook page. It's a great community of over 10,000 folks. We're all trying to get better and learn a lot and help each other. So also, if none of those work, if you don't get accepted to our Facebook group and we delete your question off our forum, please slide into Leah Lutz's direct messages. She cannot let the DMs go. And she will bug Pester, one of us for the answer. Yes, true. OK. Question number one. Smoking is associated with obesity and central adiposity. But smokers often cite fear of weight gain as a barrier to smoking cessation. What do? Yeah. Well, so I understand where this comes from, because the idea, and again, there's nuggets of truth in here that nicotine is like an appetite to suppress it. People have this habitual process of smoking them after meals. And they feel like that helps them curb their hunger, et cetera. And then every time they've tried to quit, it is common for individuals who quit smoking that they start eating more in the short term. That being said, amongst smokers, people who smoke, who are heavy smokers, tend to have higher rates of obesity. You also pulled the study. Yeah, I pulled a, I did some background research while I was back there sifting through these. And this paper by Dair in 2015, they looked at almost 500,000 people in the UK who were smokers. So pretty substantial population size that they looked at there. And I'll just quote this line from it. Said amongst smokers, the risk of obesity increased with the amount smoked. And former heavy smokers were more likely to be obese than former light smokers, about a 60% higher odds of that. And they said, risk of obesity fell with the amount of time from quitting. After 30 years, former smokers still had high risk of obesity than current smokers, but the same risk as people who had never smoked. So that increase in kind of tendency towards gaining weight after quitting smoking. That seems to be a trensient thing after quitting. But the further out you get from successfully quitting smoking, the more your obesity risk tends to normalize and kind of merges with the same risk of somebody who had never smoked at any point in their life. So I would not use this as a reason to not smoke or to not quit smoking. Although it is cited as a barrier commonly, you know, that risk normalizes after, you know, longterm. Yeah, it's like a short-term risk. In addition with some of the medical sort of management, we have with the associate's smoking cessation and some of the other psychological techniques exceed the CBT and stuff, that those tend to be having better outcomes with respect to even that short-term risk of increase in weight. They tend to not see that as much. Practical slash example suggestions for initiated the conversation with family members that appear to be suffering from sarcopenia. It's actually a great question because it affects a lot of people, but also can this, the answer to this can extend more broadly to other medical conditions that you think a family member might have but not be addressing. Just the first part of this, I don't actually think it's terribly important for you to diagnose them or tell them that you're necessarily afraid that they have a particular condition that's got a diagnosed name. That doesn't mean you never have to do that or that can't be part of your talking strategy, but I think the initial communication should be what your concerns are with about their health. Show some understanding of their current situation and then try to direct them towards resources. So for example, I probably wouldn't even though I am medically trened. I don't know that I would bring up that I'm afraid that somebody in my family has sarcopenia directly to them, but rather I would ask them if they'd be open to going to the gym with me or going to the gym to see a coach or one of my friends who trens folks because that they're already engaging in the behavioral change that I want to get them towards and I don't necessarily want to scare them with medical terminology. If I'm not their doctor. So I would direct them not only to the gym in this case, but then also to see their doctor though then again, you'd have to assume that their doctor's up on this stuff which is kind of hamstrunGHere. Yeah, I also probably wouldn't bring it up in terms of like an ominous medical diagnosis, but rather my strategies for doing this really revolve around making it meaningful to the person. So the first step in behavior change like what Jordan laid out at the beginning of the weekend is identifying where is this person in the the the the trens-theoretical model with respect to where are they in terms of readiness for behavior change? Do they even know that there may be an issue here? So I do this all the time with my hospitalized inpatients and I think I've talked about this maybe before where IMight have an elderly person or even a non-elgently person admitted for a particular medical condition and I'll test them out. I'll do the sit-to-stands. I do that pretty routinely on my patients in the hospital and routinely they fail it. They're either unable to do it or unable to do it without their arms or something like that. And so that might be something that they just had accepted as a part of aging for example. They just thought, oh, this is just what happens when you get old, right? And I don't actually mention the word sarcopiniate to them. I asked them that once I've identified that they that they were unable to complete that task, IMight say tell me about the things that you like to do in a given day. Knowing that the answer is usually, I don't usually do very much, you know, IMight walk around the house a little bit and that's usually about it. That's what I get from a lot of these patients. What did you use to like to do? What kind of things were your hobbies? What did you use to enjoy things like that? What kind of things were you previously able to do that you don't think you could do any more? Then they'll rattle off a whole bunch of things. Oh, I used to do this in this and this and this do you think that, you know, if there are any of those that you'd really like to be able to do again? Oh, yeah, I'd love to be able to do this, but you know, I'm just old, I can't do it anymore. And then that's my way in to say, what if there's a way that we could work to get you back towards being able to do some of these things? Wouldn't it be nice to be able to do this thing independently without needing to help of your family member, your son, your daughter, your spouse, your caregiver, whoever to help you do this relatively simple task, reaching to grab something out of a cabinet, getting up to go out and get the mail or something like that that they feel like they can't do anymore. So those are activities that hold meaning to the individual and they give me like a hook that I can grab and make this goal something that they can actually foresee as being impactful to them. Rather than saying, oh, I'm concerned that you have Sarkopinian that's associated with an increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Right? They're like, okay. Yeah, buzz off, you know? That doesn't mean anything. Rather, making it tying it to a meaningful activity. We do the same thing in the rehab context, right? We're trying to get people to rehabilitate back towards valued activities that they want to be able to do, whether that's squatting and deadlifting, or whether that's, you know, bending over and picking up their kids or something like that. So Sarkopinian is a trening process and it involves behavior change. Same as the pain and rehab thing, but again, you have to make it meaningful to the person in order to get buy-in. But of course, even before that, they have to recognize that it's a problem. And a lot of these folks don't even recognize it as a problem at all. So that's when if they can't even get out of a chair, I'm like, that kind of concerns me that you're unable to get out of a chair, you know, just because you're 60 or 70 or 80 or 40 or 50 or whatever, you know, you should be able to get out of a chair and do these things. And I think that there are ways that we can get you here. You interested in learning more about how we can accomplish this and then kind of go from there. So that's how I do it. Yep. You do that. I do that all the time. Also, like, and again, just to reiterate the part when I said the beginning, I think directed people towards good resources. Like, if you want to bring this up in some fashion, then you have to know what your next move is going to be. So now you've got them to recognize that there's an issue. So when I was your solution, I don't know. Well, but you should really work on that. Yeah, you should really work on that. Yeah, you're a little clen. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Not a known for that. Not a known for your rocky. Yeah. Okay. All right. Thoughts on when it makes sense for non-competitive lifters to use straps. Other than grip strength, does it greatly diminish the benefits of the dead lift? Yeah. IMean, I wrote a whole article about this called gripping matters. It's available on a future different locations on the interwebs. I don't really care outside of competitive power lifters or people who are involved in the barbell sports. I do think there's something we said about developing grip strength just in general. So I think, you know, there's carry over then from the deadlift to other exercises where you have to hold on to things like, you know, pull ups, chin ups, stuff like that. That being said, you could work on those just by pull ups and chin ups. So other than just competing to barbell sports, I don't know that you necessarily need to develop deadlift specific grip strength. I think that straps in general can be a great trening tool to help folks who have grip problems still tren their deadlift. But I would also at the same time be trening their grip in the deadlift. So the way I generally program this is working up to your top set. I want you to not use straps for your top set. Use just your hands with chalk and try to hold the last rep of your heaviest working set for about 20 seconds. Set it down. Then if you need to use straps for the rest of your workout, that's fine. But again, if you're not at least trying to develop your grip strength, I think that you're missing out. And I think that just part of the general trening development process, you're missing out a little bit. But if someone was very adamant like, look, I do not want to use this alternate grip. It scares me and all this other stuff. I think that's a big deeper issue to have to dive into. And the only way that they're going to resistance tren is by using straps. Okay. Yeah. If it's a non-competitive general health person, I don't really care at all. I just think I do think there's just something to like having a developed grip strength. I think I would make the point here that if you had somebody in that situation and they became very trened in their deadlift using straps the whole time. I still think they're likely to have improved their grip strength. I agree. I agree. Just a good enough. I'm good enough for me. I think for a non-competitive person. Yeah. I just think for the Instagram cloud, which you know is increasingly becoming more and more important, can't use straps. Yeah. Do you think that health care provider should be more liberal in their use of obesity drugs? What resources would you recommend to a physician who's interested in learning more? Yes. I don't have the specific prescription rates or how often these should be used but then aren't or how often they're available to patients who would get covered for them. But then they're not made it. They're not prescribed. I don't know that all those rates. But I do know that they're underutilized. And so as far as resources on learning more about not only the mechanism of action but the prescription like indications and things to monitor and watch out for it. Et cetera. The 2016 American Academy of Clinical and Recrerologist Obesity Guidelines has a very lengthy discussion of all of these agents and when they should and shouldn't be prescribed in potential medication interactions and things of that nature. So that would be the first resource I would go to and then after that it would be based on each particular medication just on up to date or Lexi Compton. Lexi Compton. Yeah. I agree that they're probably underused but I don't think we want to because that's likely to get us like YouTube commenter saying the original big there it is. There it is. We just want to throw everybody on medicines. Do I have to listen to your story? Well we're here. Listen. Listen. Pfizer emailed me. Pfizer emailed me because they want to run this social media campaign. Okay and they were going to offer me this is the funny part. They were going to offer me $300. $300. $300. $300. $300. To make a post about this Pfizer campaign. Now to be fair this was like a gettinGHealthy like advertisement that running this sort of campaign to get people more active and eating right and but here's the thing though. It's Pfizer. Yeah I feel like they don't actually care about it. It's sponsored by Pfizer and again like we already get accused enough of being big farm-assials even though most of the medications that we actually like recommend or the classes there's like a lot of generic so it means we're certainly not getting paid for them. Like I don't make IMake precisely zero dollars prescribing any medication. Right nobody's giving you kickbacks. No one. Literally nobody. So there's an opportunity. No. I was just so weird that they emailed and so when I said no thank you they were like we have some wiggle room on our reimbursements and I was like I started to think I was like what amount of money would it take for me to make a Pfizer post like being pro Pfizer? You just have to assume that that's the end of your career. Yeah so it have to be at least like I don't know what a thousand times higher than that. IMean I just have to live on it so I was going to say look I need $3 billion. And unless you're willing to give me $3 billion that's what it takes for you to live. That's right to sell my soul to actually be big farm-assials. Okay Oh sorry. Yeah I think that these medicines are also underutilized but given those concerns that people are likely to have I think that we should emphasize that there are specific indications for when they should be used. So remember when Jordan was talking about the nutrition interventions and say you want to initiate the aggressive lifestyle stuff there's a percentage goal for clinically relevant weight loss and there's a timeframe that you want to achieve that and if you do it. Right so if you go through hit that timeframe and you're missing your weight loss targets then there's a perfectly reasonable situation to initiate that discussion rather than just blaming the patient more and saying it's your fault you didn't do this you need to try harder your bad person. That might be a time to say hey maybe the dietary RPE of this intervention right the how difficult this behavior changes for you might be a little too high too difficult to adhere to one of the ways these medications can help is by actually making it a little bit easier to adhere to a calorie restricted diet right through effects on the brains, the tidy mechanisms, all kinds of so I've used these medications actually pretty frequently despite the fact that I was not actually formally trened in them in residency it's quite easy to learn to learn about them for people who have prescribing power and to learn about side effects and things like that particularly through like a family medicine trening and trauma that's in turning any kind of generalist practice they're not that difficult to manage or to deal with so I've used them with a handful of obviously as with any intervention just like in trening there's a spectrum of individual responses I've had some patients who did awesome with it they said suddenly like adhering to their calorie restricted diet was a piece of cake they had no difficulty with it and others who didn't do great on one but did better on another and some who had less of an effect altogether and so again I don't think these are a great tool to use as what we call monotherapy you just like put somebody on a pill and say up guess you're good now it still needs aggressive multi-modal interventions in terms of the nutrition piece the physical activity piece medication piece etc they all have kind of a role to play here because again weight loss and particularly sustained weight loss is hard yeah the lifestyle recommendations are recommended at literally every level for individuals with obesity and then there's only a certain swath of those that would bEQualified for medications sorry Pfizer not today okay after years of being exposed to the more intellectual evidence-based side of the fitness industry I found it harder and harder to communicate with the gen pop about trening in a way that doesn't go over their head questions like how do I lose weight or what program do you follow usually a list at lengthy responses where I rarely feel like the other party has any takeaway that allows them to take action well communication strategies do you use with less experienced populations to communicate so that you're able to meet them on their level IMean honestly I think you answered your own question within this question effectively if you're not meeting people at their level based on their level of education understanding etc then it doesn't matter what your fund of knowledge is you just missed it doesn't mean that you're a bad person and that you should likEQuit or whatever it just you're going to have to try a different strategy so I think it's okay to simplify things I think it's okay to draw things down if you need to make a graph they get it's okay to have pre-prepared materials where you've actually sat down and thought about this and constructed out like you know a couple different statements you can actually run these through different software like free software that's available on the internet to check for like reading level like how how complicated is this stuff but if you're finding yourself explaining like relatively simple concepts and these very long you know complicated manners my my first instinct is to say hey just try to explain it in one sentence or less dumb it down it's fine because they're not asking you like what are all the mechanisms by which somebody may lose weight please provide references IMight ask you that right in a question an open book test soon becoming for the barbell medicine trening certification no but with respect to just you know peer to you know or not peer to peer communication but also just client to provider communication if they're disassing you how do you lose weight the answer would would be I you need to be in a calorie deficit and if we can find you a way to adhere to a diet where you're eating less calories than you burn for a day we're gonna get there you don't need to go into this long thing because then there they might that might trigger additional questions that you'll have to answer in a similar way so the Twitter I call it the Twitter method you have 160 characters to effectively explain a complex topic and if you can't fit it in there I think you might need to think about this a little harder before you respond it's easier to make up with volume of language no rather than substance and then I also think again having the preprepair materials offer common questions or fact frequently asked questions super useful that's what like in the medical clinic we always laugh or I always used to laugh rather about the pamphlets like the handouts but a lot of that stuff has been thought about even research on some levels in order to better communicate these things because you can't think of a off the cuff response that's necessarily going to be helpful so you can have the pamphlet literally go through that with them and say here's what I think and this is for you to have yeah this is difficult for sure and so you know my regular job in the in the medical setting in the hospital setting I tren residents and medical students and so I frequently observe their interactions with patients and I get to see how they counsel patients how they talk with patients how they educate and kind of the way they speak and overwhelmingly the most common problem that I see when they're talking to patients is using too much complicated medical jargon when explaining things to patients particularly really these really complex medical things that they're saying admitted to the hospital for so I always end up debriefing with them and tell them hey that was like you know they were clearly not understanding what we were talking about there this is how I would explain this and it takes practice to develop like an arsenal of metaphors of explanatory strategies to explain some of these complicated things but the way I at least initiate these conversations is always by asking the patient what they know about a particular topic so they somebody might say how do I lose weight and I'm like well maybe tell me what you already know about this condition tell me what you know about you know being overweight tell me what you know about weight loss and that might get nothing that tells me where I need to start like at the very bottom right or they might have some degree of knowledge but it might be wrong well that gives me a little place to start in terms of you know steering them in the right direction or they might start spouting off a whole bunch of complex scientific jargon I'm like oh you're like a scientist and you already know all this stuff right so I've had you know I've seen that a lot with patients who come in and they and I asked them what do you know about this and they'll spread out a bunch of medical jargon like oh you're in healthcare so I can talk to you at a particular level so I use that initial question of tell me what you know about this as my screening tool to identify where the person is at in terms of their level of education and then I tried to reflect that back at them with my language in terms of the way I explain things so I just reflect what they're giving me back at them and again that takes practice uh takes a lot of a lot of work and you have to pay a lot of attention to your language which is something that hopefully you took away from the pain lecture already in terms of words that we use with people when discussing these topics so paying attention towards uses is good but I like assessing where people are at and then just reflecting it back at them yep and to get feedback on like how good or bad of a job you did just asking for a teach back at the end of whatever your communication was so like okay so let's review let's review tell me what you know you know now what you know about this yeah can be useful because if they if nothing comes back you're like bang it missed again but hopefully you build like again certain murder metaphors certain phrases explanations that stick with you add to your arsenal there's a bunch of doctor Lawrence my psych attending like every time she feels oh my gosh I thought he was like like a CD player like you just skip to the next track every time you prescribe the medication it would be the same thing every single time and now in retrospect he probably had explained each one of those things a couple hundred of different times and was like here's how to best explain that so people understand or just you know he liked it personally I don't all right next question do you believe heart rate plays a role in program design for cardiovascular fitness if so when if not why I feel like this is a bit of a kind of a try to get me to commit to like a strong man kind of thing like so I think that the heart like obviously obviously your heart rate is going to be a thing that you're going to use or sorry that you're going to sort of monitor or it's going to be a part of the actual exercise program prescription I just don't like using that as the intensity sort of communication meaning that go run at a you know heart rate of 140 to 150 beats per minute or 80 percent of your max heart rate one because not everyone has a heart rate monitor to some of the problems with accuracy of heart rate monitors particularly with novel sort of trening and modalities and then in addition I just I prefer the ease of use with RPE effectively they're both measurements of internal load but RPE you don't need any specialized equipment and does the same scale that you can use across a wide different variety of modalities so that being said I do use heart rate prescription for people who are new to certain exercises so for example I have a client right now who's like I want to get better at running I'm terrible at running so after we address the catastrophic language then I was like okay so do you have a heart rate monitor he happened to have one I was like great so I need you to go you're going to go jog for 25 minutes at an RPE 6 your heart rate's not going to go over 130 beats per minute if it does you need to start walking because I wanted him to understand like even if he didn't feel like he was working that hard his heart rate was tellinGHim something different because he was very new on the other hand if I had a person that same person but they didn't have a heart rate monitor I'd probably just lower the RPE I'd say RPE 5 meaning you should be able to talk in complete sentences you might be able to sing a bar from your favorite song provided it's not Dr. Gray and you're not just yelling all right so you're actually sing twist the yeah long long bar if you don't know twist is a Lincoln bio so yeah it's obviously a thing I just don't use it that often I just don't use it that often mate again because there are limitations to it and then not everyone has heart re-monitor I think if we did more cardiovascular like if we were the the cardio dudes like well IMean cardio has their medicine yeah for about 15 years I was a cardio dude when I swim and obviously the talk test is not an option when you're swimming right where you can you know talk but not sing not really not really an option under water we also didn't use heart rate monitors in general but when I think back to the way at least my college swimming coach programmed a lot of our sets he just used a color system pink red or blue and those were increasing in tech no no blue was actually like all out sprint like maximal and then red was like what I would call like an RPE8 and pink was like an RPE6 and then like no color assigned was like you know the first warm-up sets or something like that and so when I think back I'm like oh he was just using you know internal load you know kind of an RPE type thing but even more simplified which means that if you are working with a client and using a one to ten numerical system for their RPE rating is too difficult then you know it could literally be like you know a stoplight color code system or something like that right and that's you know gonna be gonna be getting you close and you've used you've talked about the feeling scale before it's like this set should feel bad and that you know that's something that's gonna be pretty hard to see this has been researched yeah so for general population people who don't care about one RM powerlifting performance and you're just trying to get a ballpark intensity prescription probably good enough yeah use a feeling scale or don't yeah we often hear from a nutritional and fitness standpoint that you want to live it inflammation I know that certain disease states involve inflammation but inflammation is also part of the healing process can you distinguish between good versus bad inflammation and when we want to control or limit inflammation yeah IMean I think the biggest thinGHere is is the amount of total inflammation so inflammation when it is in excess is can be or can be problematic generally inflammation cause from trening or from other sort of what we would consider it potentially beneficial or benign sources do not go to the level where it can cause harm so one common marker of inflammation is like this metric called C-reactive protein or CRP another one BESR the RITS are site sedimentation rate there are studies out there showing that the resistance trening drives up CRP at ESR after trening but a little bit enough where that's still within the error margins of the test itself and it's effectively meaningless we don't know what to do with the slightly elevated ESR or CRP that doesn't reach a certain threshold where common diseases hang out so it's really just a total amount of inflammation same thing with dietary interventions so you can go find a study right now that talks about tart cherry juice how it lowers cut CRP in half but what that study also says is that the level by which it's cutting in half is a normal level it just goes from literally one and a half to 0.75 and it doesn't you don't even think about that metric until it gets to 10 okay so that's an oversimplified view of inflammation and like how we would want to either assess it or address it but the way I think about it is that in disease processes the amount of inflammation and total inflammation is large and then the amount of inflammation that occurs second dairy to resistance trening or other potentially beneficial or benign sort of stresses tend to be well below the the level that causes disease yeah I think that outside of having a diagnosed autoimmune or auto inflammatory syndrome medical condition like rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, etc that there's really no reason for you to be worried about inflammation yeah well that's something when you're worried about it because in general you shouldn't because even you know I see enormous amounts of acute inflammation in patients sometimes who come in with sepsis severe infections things like that and even that inflammation which is off the charts in terms of how high it is I'm not trying to suppress it because I recognize that it's an immune response to the infection that's going on and I'm treating the infection to try to deal with that so even in that situation I'm not trying to suppress inflammation in these autoimmune auto inflammatory syndrome where your body is chronically attacking itself yep that merits treatment by somebody who's qualified to handle those kind of immune suppressing medications and things like that but for anybody who doesn't have those medical conditions don't worry about it you know it's going to happen it's a normal part of human existence it is an immune mediated process that's generally physiologic adaptive it helps you recover from treninGHeal from injuries and recover from other illnesses and I just wouldn't worry about it's become like a like a demonized kind of a buzzword that people worry about when they really shouldn't it's just inflammation and just cause somethinGHurts doesn't mean it's inflamed which doesn't mean you need to take anti-inflammatory medications either sure general doesn't help for a lot of things sure yeah all right 20 years ago 20 years ago there was controversy or at least discussion of pediatricic effects of statins in afloat sclerosis what is the current thought on these effects I see parents here yeah basically thEQuestion is you know people have discussed whether statins reduce cardiovascular through a bunch of other mechanisms unrelated to cholesterol and they definitely do have a bunch of other effects however I'll cite I will say that we have a huge body of evidence at this point both from genetic data these fancy studies called medallion randomization studies as well as randomized control trials of medications that basically show that any intervention that we can do that lowers the blood lipid level yeah you can actually predict how much it's going to reduce risk based on how much it lowers the blood lipid level so I'll quote this line from a Brian Francis 2017 paper where he says that trials suggest that the effect of low density lipoproteiner LDL on the risk of cardiovascular events is approximately the same per unit change in LDL cholesterol for any mechanism that lowers LDLC so basically any intervention that lowers those numbers a certain amount you get the same effective risk reduction so whether that's from a statin or whether it's from something else or whether it's from something else per unit reduction in blood LDL levels you get the same predictable risk reduction so the overwhelming effect of those medications on reducing cardiovascular risk is via lowering LDL levels or these lipoproteines that we talked about so in general play a tropic effects interesting topic not super relevant to worry about yeah it's like every one millimole of LDL concentration that you lower it's at 18% get to a certain amount of risk of CBD yeah which is cool yeah parents is a meta no yeah he lives probably not in your opinion when does it oh wait oh wait oh wait oh wait oh I escaped one how to set realistic lifting goals for a first year lifter broadly and specifically weight on the bar in the main lifts yeah that's a great question um IMean i i think about to my personal experience all right let's talk about our first years first years in lifting okay first year in lifting i remember i was a freshman at Truman State University i had just came back from this dislocated hip that's how I got into resistance trening i was told the squat and i was like got a squat so i went to the gym and i didn't know that you could load weights lighter than 45 pounds on a you can't first squat can't because i never seen it right when i was in there doing curls because that's all i was doing at the time curls in incline bench because i wanted to target my upper pecs all i saw were people loading plates right on the leg press and on a squat so i just thought you put a plate on a squat so i remember i won thirty five i walked it out i squat it down probably half depth and it pinned me i just that i was died yeah luckily i didn't then i figured out their lighter weight increments um my first year of squat did 500 to be clear it was probably high but whatever you know sometimes it's like that i did a bench three sixty five for a double and i deadlifted five forty five to in Nike shocks that was the key um he's what we would call a high responder to tren sure or you know i don't know i just i was in college man's what you do right just lift weights and get get jacked yeah i didn't have the same experience but i would okay but i remember thinking in my in my head like i wanted to squat five hundred like my first year i wanted to squat 500 i wanted to deadlift 500 and i wanted to bench 365 and then at soon of the end of the first year i was like like i remember the soon as i squated 500 i was like i need six plates and as soon as like all in the way up three sixty five's going up i'm like i need four oh five five forty five i thought six hundred like that's immediately how it went but i didn't have any like lifetime goals and every time i had like set a lifetime goal uh it was always too low so i think now in hindsight here's the loud recommend for a first year lifter don't pick lifetime goals pick like medium medium to long term goals that you think are reasonable in next year too so for example you're in your first year you want to squat 500 like that's you know not in your first year but that's maybe your that's maybe your first like medium term goal okay right so maybe it's then the firsT3 years of trening which i think is reasonable if you're like a pretty good responder to trening if yeah okay look i know i've been saying though like pick a pick a goal that you think is achievable in the next six to twelve months three six twelve months something like that and that should be your and then you got to keep redoing that so now what happened the last PR that i hit i dead lifted seven thirty five right and on the way up the only thing in my brain was like i bet 800 to be fucking cool like i can't even be happy you know just sad on my own my own it but yes my recommendation for a new lifter would be to pick uh something that you can do in the next twelve months see you and uh and and go from there but i don't think it's appropriate to try to develop like lifetime goals because you just don't know how you're gonna respond you know this dude you squatted 285 at the end of your what nine nine five yeah IMean i suppose i lifted weights in high school when i was a swimmer because i was smart enough to do some non-swimming stuff sure then i didn't similarly didn't know what i was doing and just did what other people did in the weight room pretty much when i actually started barbell trening properly or proper like that yeah it's quite a 285 in four months of trening yeah i think that started around one twenty five or something on the squat i guess yeah um but how many people running that same program looks quite more than you lots of them how many of those people have been more than you for aromasingle very few none of them yeah the point is that your initial results within the first six months or a year are not predictive of how you're gonna do long term so that's why i don't think it's a that you could do like these lifetime goals yeah no i agree with that i actually probably wouldn't if i you know if i were in that situation i probably wouldn't set goals in terms of number performance at all at the beginning fair because i think about where i was and there was a guy who was front squatting three fifteen of my gym and i thought he was a god it was like i don't know if i'll ever be able to do that right and i've since front squatting three fifteen for ten i just had no concept of anything back then and so numbers were like meaningless and i would probably rather set like process goals rather than outcome goals right process goals being you know i want to tren say three times a week consistently not miss a session for the next nine months or something like that i would set that kind of a goal um rather than a number because i think a number you end up doing stupid things when there are a number goals right because if you're not on pace then you start doing stupid things to try to speed up the pace if you start to get greedy and you try to get too close to it and then maybe you have a setback then you're like whole goal is ruined and then you're like lose a bunch of motivation and bad things happen from that standpoint um so even now i don't typically set hard numerical goals for myself because treninGHas so many ups and downs particularly at this stage of our trening treninGHas so many ups and downs um and PRs are few and far between they take a long time to get through so i don't actually set new numerical i'm like it'd be cool to lift this much but i don't know what i'm gonna get there i'm just gonna keep trening and you know show up four times a week and put in the work or whatever until i get there so i focus way more in process goals than on outcome goals for myself where other people feel like i want to win national so i'm like okay well i guess if that's realistic then maybe you're gonna win national yeah i'm glad you brought up the process being process oriented particularly early on because again you're just guessing with numbers anyway like outcome really to goals but if that's your thing okay i just think something short term is probably a little more uh tangible than like always what so i have an laundry like that you're probably bound to be disappointed yeah never gonna happen probably last question is it yeah oh have you ever been in a position where you're willingness to denounce silly BS in medicine negatively affected relationships with colleagues or friends if so what was your experience like and how did you deal with it uh yes this has happened often IMean IMean so so for me i it doesn't matter to me if i'm wrong and what IMean by that is not that i don't get upset or like it doesn't like challenge my like oh man or i don't want to prove that i'm right but like i don't hold a grudge about it i just like thing i was wrong i feel smarter at the end of that and then i get to tell you guys funny stories well i'm like writing stuff on the board i'm like yeah and then i thought this and turns out i was an idiot um at the moment you feel like oh my whole being is being challenged um but in general i like go that you know relatively quickly after i accept that i was wrong so i'm i'm cool with with with feeling that uh some other individuals are not cool with feeling that and want to protect that at all costs and so if we disagree on something it's not just that we disagree and like we can still be friends and get a beer together but it's i think that they're stupid i think that they're a bad person and we can't ever hang out again one of my you know i thought we were boys my publish that article shades gray and we're not friends anymore like we we i had a sense of a text message to be like hey like we we good you know and he's like you know there was some some back and forth there and and uh yet i don't think we're gonna ever add i think it's irreparable so it's unfortunate you know because i thought we were friends just because we have a different sort of opinions on things doesn't mean that we can't be you know cordial and like talk about other stuff so that's one thought but it's happened a lot i think with respect to denouncing silly bs like our main thing is like we don't want individuals to cause harm in our community so we're more apt to speak out against people we feel like are doinGHarm i also think that now particularly are are we've kind of pivoted instead of like just arguing with people we'd rather just put out our own information and say here's what we think if you're willing to accept it you will into you know look at this critically like cool good if you want us to just argue with somebody on on their own terms like probably not gonna engage in that too often unless you know have had a few too many drinks or like super bored so i think you like we've kind of graduated in a way like instead of putting out you know trying to extinguish somebody else's flange like we'll just build our build our own light and and let people come to us yeah that's pretty much my where where i'm at at this point in terms of putting out information trying to support it as best i can and then if people are wanting to buy into that that's cool and if not that's cool too but we get tagged all the time and stuff that people try to drag us into arguments and 100% of the time i ignore those tags just you can't drag me into this stuff anymore um get DMs from people trying to argue about stuff ignore that and it's just not worth it to me so there's some degree of like self preservation that has to happen because we're in this like public space now that i never really asked for but here we are so hello kind of well hold on what let's go back to like 2015 you're about to graduate yeah so let's say that we were having a standard brocestersh mega rush yeah all right and i was like looked dude like five years from now we're gonna be on tour prestige worldwide bridging the gap between modern medicine and striking dishening and communicating this as public figures in the community you you cool with that or not well if i wasn't ever cool with that i don't think we're doing you'd be psyched you'd be like wait really yeah and i'd be like and get this you're not gonna work full time at all so well you'd be like whoa yeah i think being in a public being in this public space uh it comes with a bunch of challenges with it and you can let it kind of wear you down in some capacities or you can develop some coping mechanisms and so there's certainly colleagues that i've come to disagree with on things and that's led to some of us going in our separate directions necessarily but yeah i i have developed things some skills of emotionally detaching from some of those things and not letting it wear me down too bad because it's it's not worth it so i think that i agree we try to put out this material put out a positive message get people empowered self efficacious taking care of themselves and trening and then you know haters gonna hate hate is gonna play or look i'm adding onEQuestion okay because we already talked about it so we know the answer okay so we were asked yesterday by Russell we had to ask a physician like fivEQuestions or we had like five criteria to pick a primary care doctor what would those five things be because we could ask some variation of this question all the time like what makes good primary care doctor and that's how everyone talks in my mind so i'm sorry i know either none of you sound like that but in my mind like that's what sound like that's so i have a hearing problem okay so i'm gonna do this from memory you correct me if i'm wrong okay so is effectively the familiarity with the following five things so you have to be familiar with the obesity guidelines from the american academy of enter chronology 2016 you have to be familiar with the low back pain series in the Lancet good 2018 2018 so funny you have to use the uh USPSTF uh guidelines trening guidelines yeah all right what else were the other two i forgot the other two you haven't said the physical activity guidelines yet you have to be familiar with the physical activity guidelines for americans 2018 2018 because they're updated yeah it was a fifth one do we forget what was the fifth one i know it was like a wild card hmm maybe you have to be really good at this whole behavior change do you? yeah that was like my my take on this you know so so the idea is wrapping up the behavior change in motivational interviewing stuff all in one like criterion yeah you just have to have access to like at least we're gonna be able to refer people just to to different places if you don't have time to do this in your clinic um the whole thing you know is that you're familiar with what we consider to be the oh would be the it was the high blood pressure uh stuff because you're thinking the top five risk factors for mortality yeah yeah yeah so the top five risk factors for mortality we would have except expect the primary care doc to be able to take care of or at least make some sort of headway in and so again that's addressing obesity addressing being sedentary addressinGHigh blood pressure addressinGHigh blood sugar yeah i'm sure it's okay and smoking yes and then also having this oh by the way i can i can work with you on pain too doesn't mean that the other skills that they learn or learn in residency or that a learning medical trening aren't useful it's just like i don't necessarily care if my low if my primary care doctor can diagnose this particular autoimmune disease or you know treat treat some other condition with there this there might be a specialist for that i'd rather have more primary care doctors who know these things than you know we're able to exercise a lipoma you can get your office sure yeah so yeah that's it for our first seminar for 2020 thank you guys so much for coming out

=== FILE: Neuroscience Secrets： How-To Train Mental Resilience, Focus, & Performance (w⧸ Anne-Sophie Fluri) [AQAhbtx7tNg].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we have a very special guest, Anne Sophie Flurry. Now, Anne Sophie is a neuroscientist who's worked in both industry and academia over the last 12 years. She has a master's of research in experimental neuroscience and has published papers relating to the vestibular system, that's the sensory system, in your inner ear, plays a crucial role in balance and spatial awareness, as well as in Parkinson's disease. More recently, she started the company Brainwave, where she runs mental fitness and performance workshops for companies. And in this podcast, we're going to leverage her expertise and talk about some mental strategies to improve your life and your workouts. Specifically, we're going to talk about meditation, visualization, and how to develop mental resilience. Anne Sophie, welcome to the show. Hi, thank you so much for having me. Did I miss anything about your background? I like to lay out the CV, you know, the pertinent. Yeah, no, you actually added some things that I'd forgotten about. The papers I published, which was years ago when I was doing my master's and in the early stages of my PhD, which I discontinued, I totally forgot about those. We did some really strange experiments. They're putting water into your ear. I saw, I read that. Yeah, I read that. Yeah, like my friend mentioned it the other day, he was like, I was reading your paper and you put water into the ear to make people feel dizzy. And I'm like, did I? That seems like a long time ago. No, your master's research looked far more interesting than mine. Mine was on the anatomical presence of a specific muscle, this vastus medialis obliquus. It's supposed to be this muscle at the distal end of your vastus medialis, part of your quadriceps. Anyway, have you heard of the AAA? Most people think that's an insurance company, but it's actually an anatomical society in America. And I'm a proud card carrying member of that group, which I think if people were like, is he a nerd or nah? And I am, I'm a nerd trapping this Chad body and I don't know what to do about it. I feel like similar. I feel like I'm a similar kind of person. Like I didn't get on with anyone from my study. Like I think that's why I quit my PhD is like I couldn't relate to anyone. Yeah, I don't belong here. Yeah. No, but then a lot of my friends were like creatives, but then I also couldn't relate to it. I'm a creative person, but then I didn't fit into those industries at all either. I'm like, I just. Yeah, you're too, too, too diverse for the system. Nice. Well, we're super, I'm super excited to have you. Obviously, we've known each other for a while and I've been wanting to get you on the podcast. And so finally, schedules aligned just for our listeners. So I think we covered your CV, but what are you up to these days? Is it primarily with Brainwave or you like doing other stuff in industry or academia or both? Yeah, so I left my corporate position. I was a chief science officer of a sleep app after having worked on a variety of meditation and mental fitness apps. And now I set up Brainwave, which is I basically I was doing a lot of workshops for our B2B partners from these apps when we were trying to sell our apps to different companies the same way that they do for calm and headspace. That's why everybody gets their free subscriptions. Similar similar kind of thing or selling to insurances. And I just realized that when I'm doing workshops with people in the room, it's just so it's so much better to give tailored advice because the advice you can give to somebody on an app is always going to be quite limited. And another thing that I found was that you can you can access a lot of people through apps, but eventually I started with these early stage startups and we would grow to a certain level when things then just became about retention rates and numbers and, you know, making money and like it's just it's just not it's just not where my interest is. So I set up Brainwave and I go to companies. I go to people. I host workshops. I do talks and that's it's like just picking the best part of my old job and just trying to do that full time. Yeah, no, I love that as like a science professional health care professional like any sort of, you know, we are focused on how people are doing and getting better. It's really difficult to get motivated about like turn rate, you know, like or exactly. Yes. So in any case, all right, well, let's top right into this. We're going to start talking about meditation and I don't want to. I want to speak incorrectly. So what exactly is meditation? I think the easiest way to address this is to talk first about what meditation isn't because I think there's a lot of misconceptions. Meditation is not emptying your brain or emptying your mind. It's not strictly a spiritual practice, even though it does have its roots in many traditions. It's not transcending space and time, achieving Nirvana. I think some people have that image. It's not sitting in your yoga gear on a cushion, incomplete stillness and silence. What it is is quite simply just a mental practice of training your attention and your awareness. So it usually involves focusing on an anchor. That anchor can be something like your breath. So just focusing on your breathing, focusing on every inhale, every exhale. Sound quite boring, but it's actually very difficult. You can focus on a sound so you can meditate to music, like listening to a piece of music, for example, or like a gong sound. You can focus on a mantra that you repeat to yourself. You can focus on different sensations that are happening in your body. You can even focus on cultivating a particular state of mind or a kind of feeling. And I guess there's just there's so many different ways to meditate. It's really just about placing your attention where you want it to be on this specific anchor. And whenever you get distracted, which will happen because it's the nature of the mind, you're going to get distracted. Your mind is going to wander and try to do more productive things or think about thoughts or feelings that you might have. It's just about noticing when you're distracted and bringing your awareness back to that original anchor and setting that intention. And another core factor here is when you get distracted, which you will, it's about not judging that you're getting distracted. So it's a skill to learn just like learning a new language or an instrument. It requires a lot of practice. It requires a lot of attention, a lot of focus and not judging yourself when you mess up because any new skill you're going to mess up. Totally. Yeah. No, the way I've understood it classically is like a conscious exercise and like a intentional focus towards some either sensorium or thought or like whatever it is. And basically you're training your ability to quote, bring it back. You know, should you, should you get diverted based on a sound that you weren't expecting or a thought, an intrusive thought or series of thoughts? Yeah, it's interesting. I don't really talk about meditation and like, you know, when I'm advising people on things to do, for example, but I do talk about being distracted quite frequently. And you talk about like everybody talks about focus and it's just being focused. Yeah. And it's a way to train being focused because you can, anybody can tell you, you know, you need to focus on your work. You need to focus on your training. You need to focus on whatever, but something. Sometimes people don't have the skill to focus and in focusing on something as mundane as your breathing, which is something that the body does automatically. You don't need attention on your breath in order to breathe. Otherwise you would die. You're right. Something that happens in the, in the body automatically. So when you place your attention on something that the body does automatically, your brain wants to wander. Your brain wants to do something more productive. Think about what am I going to have for dinner later? I need to have this conversation with my boss. I still need, there's a hundred things that I need to take off my to-do list. But that's, I think that's why it's such a good way to train your focus because especially when you're focusing on something that mundane, you have a lot of those distractions and you can bring yourself back. Yeah. No, I like that. Um, I've been doing some digging for this podcast. I kind of was curious, like how many people, you know, are engaging in meditation, at least what they think is meditation. Um, and I found some interesting data, you know, with respect to American adults, it's like one in five American adults, that's 60 million people report using meditative practices in the past year. That's interestingly about the same number of American adults who meet the current physical activity guidelines. Is that a coincidence or not? Unclear. Uh, but based on your experience, what are the main reasons that people become interested in and ultimately start participating in meditation? I'm sure you've heard a number of stories from people who tend to workshops and people you've worked with. Like, why do people start meditating? What's the, what's the motivation here? Yeah. I think the best data that I can pull, um, is from my work on meditation apps, specifically, I started working on meditation apps, uh, right after the pandemic, which is when a lot of VCs, uh, and investors were investing in mental fitness meditation apps because, you know, we're, everybody was lonely, mental health crisis, no community. Um, and so we were developing a lot of apps and as part of my work on the scientific side to make sure that the, the meditations that we're delivering or the workshops that we're delivering through the apps are scientifically backed. I, um, I looked at a lot of this research. First of all, on what meditations are good and what are they good for? But then also on our competitors and there were so many competitors popping up around that time. And what we found is that a lot of apps that started as strictly meditation apps eventually pivoted to sleep apps because they looked at the data. And when you open the app, a lot of the time people will click on why I need to meditate because I have sleep issues. So if we had followed the data, we would also have turned into a sleep app. But the reason is not, I think that people are necessarily looking for meditation to help with their sleep. It's that sleep is one of the first symptoms that there's anything wrong with you on a psychological level. Um, poor sleep. You can find that with, with anything with depression, anxiety, loneliness. Um, and not only that, but also it's very. Okay. To talk about your lack of sleep in a social setting, no matter who you're with. It's, it's less, um, it's more taboo to talk about, you know, I'm, depressed, I'm feeling depressed. I'm feeling lonely. Yep. Um, so my, my guess from, from being in industry in that way is that a lot of people are looking to solve their sleep first and foremost with meditation, which I think is very misguided because meditation, uh, is marketed as this, uh, relaxation technique. And it's not necessarily going to relax you, especially if you're beginning, uh, because it's a new skill and any, that you try to practice a new skill, you're going to, you're going to make mistakes. You're going to be frustrated. Um, it's going to take time. So if you go into meditation thinking that immediately you're going to feel relaxed, you, you know, you might, you might be shocked to find out that that's not what's going to happen. Yeah. You just got a little, literally a mental workout at with some, yeah, you, for the first time, you're really realizing just how distracted your mind is or just how, you know, obliqu, obliqu, that's, that's the wrong word. Yeah, I like it. Just think your thoughts are. Um, but yeah, I would say a lot of people will come to meditation for, for help with sleep, for help with, um, relaxation, stress relief, anxiety, um, any sort of mental health support, I would say. I think, I think less people come to it from a place of wanting to focus even though, and we'll get into this later. I think focus is one of the strongest, um, reasons to, to meditate in the literature. But I think people, everybody wants to focus better. Everybody wants to have better memory and focus, but I don't think that people actually want to train their memory and focus. I mean, yeah, I mean, similar parallels with respect to various aspects of physical performance and such. Um, yeah, no, that's a perfect segue though. You know, I wanted to start, uh, when discussing meditation, not only what is it and why do people seek it out, but you know, what sort of legitimate health benefits are there based on existing data? And it sounds like from what you're saying that it's mostly for maybe like a intentional focus on a particular task, duty, creative process, something like that. Um, so maybe start there and then we can, uh, answer the sleep question because I don't know how big that market is, you know, for these apps, I assume millions, if not billions of dollars. And so maybe we can, uh, address that at the end here. Yeah. So in preparation for this podcast, I just off the top of my head sat down for a few minutes and I made a list of all of the things that I remember from like studies that I've, that I've looked at, uh, where they say meditation helps with so and so. So I'm going to read a few of them. Okay. So we have meditation helps with creativity, loneliness, uh, increasing your feelings of trust, reduced anxiety, helps with feelings of depression, reduced stress, and therefore also improvements in health related conditions that are impacted by stress. So like IBS, PTSD, fibromyalgia, um, it improves self image, cardiovascular health, uh, gives people a positive outlook on life as measured by, uh, no, aging as measured by telomere length, improved memory, improved friendships and relationships, less emotional reactivity, more compassion, helps with food cravings, helps with addictions, helps with sleep, helps with pain management and reduces blood pressure. So, yeah. So basically everything like that. Yeah. This is what, like I've, I've seen it all. I've seen, I've seen so many papers, uh, published and an interesting one was the feelings of trust because, uh, part of meditation is feeling more connected to yourself and therefore depending on the meditation that you do also more connected to the world at large and feeling connected to other people and individuals and, you know, the world and that indirectly that then helps you feel less lonely, but also gives you more trust in other people. So there's some, you know, some of these, some of these claims are like quite abstract. Um, some of them make a little bit more sense. Um, there was a, a big meta analysis that came out in 2018. Uh, it was called mind the gap. If I remember, remember this paper. Yeah. Yeah. From Van Damme and colleagues. Not Sean Claude to be, to be clear, not, not the, not the actor. Got it. Um, but what they, what they found and some of these, the people who participated on this paper are mindfulness researchers and they are part of the reason why, um, you know, they've brought mindfulness and meditation out into the public and said all of these like positive claims and everybody should do this. But, uh, but there are a few things that they noticed in a lot of these studies cause there's, there's hundreds of hundreds of studies. And the main concerns with some of these studies are that there are no active control groups in a lot of these studies. So you compare somebody who's doing a meditation to somebody who's not doing anything or waiting. And that doesn't really tell us much because, uh, any self-care activity that you have that is in some way structured is going to be better than sitting around and waiting. Totally. And the person who's likely to undertake any sort of self-improvement type behavior is far different than the person who's either resistant to that or not able to participate for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And it's the same with like taking a pill and it being a placebo. It's like, you think that you're doing something beneficial. Yep. There's some effect there. Yeah. There's some, yeah. I think that's, that's interesting because you, one of the questions I had for you was like, how good is the research here? And that maybe spoke, speaks to a bigger point that at least my understanding, um, when it comes to meditation is that, you know, we're looking for a direct like input meditation output reduction on blood pressure or reduction in cardiovascular disease risk or symptoms thereof, um, or trajectory, whatever improvement there. My, my interpretation here is that meditation and to the extent that it does either help people manage stress or reduce stress. If you wanted to put it on that sort of scale, it enables people, unlocks people to participate in other health promoting behaviors, make different choices. Um, and ultimately kind of, uh, change how they interface with their environment and the subsequent stress they have in their day to day life. It's not that meditation itself is like, you know, the sink, the one thing that's doing, it's maybe like, uh, there's a bunch of positive externalities to that sort of behavior. Is that accurate or am I just blowing smoke? I mean, that, that's where all of these other additional health claims come in. It's because meditation can make you more aware of yourself and your body. Um, it can make you more mindful that that's the whole point, but then that might, uh, affect the other, the other things that you think you might eat more mindfully, you might, um, you know, engage in more self care activities. You might be, now you notice stress earlier because you're aware of the symptoms of stress in your body. And so that you can make, you know, you can make decisions based on that. Um, plus it's just, I think it's just so useful to have these tools in your toolkit to understand your body's physical reactions to stress, to danger, to anxiety and just know how they show up for you. And then as you move around in life, you're just, you're just much more aware. And then you make this, hopefully you make better and healthier decisions for yourself. Yeah. Yeah. People, you know, they'll commonly ask us, because we do explain particularly in our seminars and some of our other work, you know, that a, an individual stress from not, you know, not only their day to day life, but just, you know, their entire existence to date shapes their experience of any particular stimulus. So whether it's like a, a medical condition that's genetically based or that, you know, an exposure or it's exercise, even, you know, that is applied to the individual and their uniqueness as an organism effectively shapes how they experience that. And part of that is stress, right? So we mentioned stress, but then people will invariably say, well, how do I, how do I manage stress? And, you know, the hand wave, the answer, oh, just, you can meditate. You know, and they're like, well, okay, like how do I do that? You know, or like, where do I start? Um, we're gonna, we're gonna get there. But I did want to briefly address if, if there's all these health benefits from meditation due to maybe the knock on effect of participation in the, in that, in that activity and subsequently your ability to focus. Is there an application here in sport? Right? Cause it seems like, okay, maybe there's like a improvement in performance that could be gleaned here by being able to focus, uh, you know, maybe consciously, right? You have these tools now that you can focus on sports performance, work performance, cognitive performance, something like that. Is that, is that legit? Or am I, am I just making stuff up here? Yeah. No, like I, I think absolutely. And like a lot of pro athletes will use different types of meditation as preparation. Um, I think the most important thing is again, just that ability to focus and to really focus when it matters the most, especially if you're, if you're competing in something and you know, the moment is now you have one chance to score the goal. Like all eyes are on you. The crowd is, I don't know, either they're shouting abuse or they're just cheering or whatever. You have to, you know, you have to be able to focus on what you need to do in that moment, um, and not get distracted by all of the external noise. And I think that's, that's probably the most important way that meditation can, can help you. And also like if, if, if you're an athlete, there's a lot of pressure, right? And there's probably a lot of negative self-talk and doubt and all of these things, especially if you're performing at those pro levels that you need to, you need to be able to deal with. Yeah. So the meditation would have let you effectively focus on the task at hand and at least on what you can control. Perhaps is there good evidence here for like, look, if you're a soccer player, you would say football, uh, athlete, uh, it helps. Yeah, either way. Right, right, right. Uh, or any particular sporting application that you've seen, like decent evidence for just to give people, um, maybe like a, an example of the magnitude of potential benefit here is anything that that exists in that space. So I, um, I, I know that there's a lot of research on the type of meditation called visualization, which is it's, you're still meditating, but you're focusing on a vision or mental imagery. And that's used a lot in, in sports applications and a lot of coaches use that with, with their teams. There was one study, um, where they showed that people who went to the gym. So there's, there's two groups of gym goers, people who practice visual imagery. So they, they were visualizing themselves, perform like a clean impressed, um, while they were doing it. And then there was just the other group that just did it normally. The, the group that visualized at the same time as they were executing the exercise were able to lift like 15 pounds, uh, heavier than their max weight. Um, which is like, I don't know how much 15 pounds is in kilos. Uh, seven and a half kilos approximately. Yeah. Yeah. Which is like significant. Totally. It was, it was a small, it was a small study, but, but there are a lot of, uh, different examples from different institutions that are kind of similar. It's like when you're focusing on, again, it's just, it's down to focus. You're focusing on executing the exercise or you're focusing on the task at hand. You, um, you're able to perform better. There's, um, with, with sports, particularly there's less evidence to say that it helps you with putting on muscle mass, even though you would think that, okay, if somebody's doing it, um, if they're visualizing at the same time as they're lifting over a course of, I don't know, eight weeks, that maybe they, they have increased muscle mass because they're able to lift heavier. Um, but I think those studies are kind of, they're difficult to execute. Yeah. Where's the control room? There's so many different variables. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, so maybe before, cause we're going to hop into visualization specifically you're in a second, but if somebody wanted to start meditating today, they hear this podcast or like, you know, Anne Sophie, she sounds very intelligent. I've been wanting to manage my stress better and meditation seems like a reasonable ask for me. Where would you recommend, where and how would you recommend they, they go to start? I, um, and maybe I shouldn't say this because I've worked on competitor apps, but I'd say headspace is a great place to start. Sure. This is not sponsored by headspace, by the way. Yeah. Not, but you're welcome to sponsor. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, uh, or just, I mean, just go on, on YouTube. This is what I do. I like, if I need a guided meditation, if I'm, if I'm feeling in a place where I'm like, I know that I, my, my focus is lacking. I can't meditate by myself. I just need somebody to guide me through and give me those signals to remind me to, you know, bring my focus back. If I'm distracted, I just go on YouTube and I type in a certain meditation and I, like you can, you can type in meditation for compassion, meditation for, uh, speaker anxiety. You can, you can, you know, they've tailor made meditations for absolutely everything nowadays. Um, the principle of the meditation is the same. It's most of the time it's going to be focus, uh, focused attention or visualization or something like that, but just type it into, into, um, even Spotify, YouTube or something like that, or if you want to learn, uh, very strict kind of meditation, just like the, the foundations headspace is a great place to go because they, they've got these series. It's like introduction to meditation. You can do that. The problem with these meditation apps and these, this is why I've stopped working on meditation apps is that it gets very samey. Um, the script in a meditation, you know, after a few years, you're like, I've, I've heard this before. Like it's, it's just always the same. It's, it's somebody telling you focus on your breath. And then after a few minutes, they remind you, Hey, like, are you distracted? Come back and focus on your breath. Got it. So it's, yeah, it's, it's not, it's not always going to be the most exciting thing. Um, and apps also, you know, they need to focus on retention rates. And so it's, it's hard to gamify something like meditation because it's counterintuitive to have any sort of like dopamine rush associated with that. Yeah. Um, you know, gamify it in any way that you're earning points. Like it just doesn't really make sense. Yeah. You're in the middle of a meditation and all of a sudden that little notification pops up. You've been meditating for a hundred minutes this month. Congratulations. And you're like, yeah, like very, very early onto this. Like I was in all, I was into all of the, like the tech devices and, you know, the wearables and whatever. And there's wearables for meditation. Like you can wear an EEG headband. Yeah. Cool. You just have at home and it, um, you can do like biofeedback so you can see how well you're meditating, which. I think I saw some women wearing that at Coachella. Yeah. I thought that's, I thought it looked interesting. Turns out it's EEG. All right. Interesting. Yeah. I mean, yeah, I would say, I would say the, the best way, if you wanted to just to start meditating right now, the, the best way is to just focus on your breathing for a few moments and you don't even just set a timer for like five minutes and see how, how long you can focus on your breath. And anytime that you get distracted, which you will, and sometimes you'll get distracted after just three breaths and you're going to think, you know, I, this isn't for me, I can't do this. That's not an invitation to stop. It's an invitation to practice again, to redirect your focus. It's, you have five minutes, just every time you get distracted, you're back in the present moment, use that as an opportunity to come back to the practice and focus on your breathing. Yeah. I like that. And, and one of the, one of the strategies I've personally used, you know, I don't, you know, really extol my virtue of how good I am at meditating publicly. I don't pretend to be an expert here is that when I am doing something like this, I will actually, if I find myself get distracted, I'll hold up a finger and I'll be like, okay, that's one, that's two, that's three. Only is like a, because with respect to like training is a big part of my life and, and sort of part of my background. And so making progress is also like very tuned into that. So like, how am I getting better? So what I'm doing working. And so I can like gauge, I'm like, okay, this particular block of time that I set out to meditate for now, I got distracted 13 times. Okay. It's a number. Yeah. But I would, but I would prefer it to get better, you know, over time, you know. Yeah. I agree. But also it just, where your focus is and how, you know, how easy it is for you to focus that it gets better. The more you meditate, of course, you're going to have less distractions, less interruptions, but there's still going to be days, even 10 years down the line, where you're just not folk, or there's external distractions. You know, you can't create the most perfect space. You can go into a yoga studio, do a meditation class. It's going to be nice and quiet. It's going to be calm. You're going to be in your comfy clothes. Um, but that's not the representation of real life. Totally. Yeah. It's going to help you in real life when there's like noises around, but you have this meeting that you need to focus on and maybe you can like use that skill to that focus on your meeting versus those noises and distractions. But at the end of the day, like we live in a busy world. There's always going to be distractions in the form of real external noises or internal distractions, thoughts and feelings, or you're going through something. Um, it could be anything. So, so even if you're an experienced meditator, like don't judge yourself if one day you're sitting down and you're just distracted all the time. Yeah. I don't harangue myself about, oh my gosh, you're terrible today. To me, it's just more of an input to say, oh, wow, there's a lot that's going on up there. And so perhaps increase the frequency for a spell. Just maybe that's helpful. I mean, I'm making self-treating here, you know, but this is, this is also where I think that it fits in very well with like sports performance is that the core tenant of meditation is that when you're distracted, you're not supposed to judge yourself for being distracted. You're not supposed to judge the nature of the thoughts or the feelings that you have, even though, you know, you might be sitting there and you're like, I'm going to do this like meditation practice and I'm going to be really good. And then you have thoughts that are like, yeah, I don't know, make like evil thoughts. Let's say like, inclusive thoughts or I don't know, like you wish badly upon someone all the time. But you just, you can't judge yourself for having those thoughts. And that helps you with your self-awareness. That's what's going to help you make better decisions for yourself and your life in the future, because you understand yourself and you're not judging yourself. You're like, okay, had this weird thought, it doesn't define me. It doesn't mean that I'm a bad person. Just had that thought. Okay, it's not an important thought.  ab excuses. And I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read powerlifting, which we charitably call that a sport, there's like this perseveration over numbers. And if you don't achieve those numbers, especially at a meat failure, and you worry about it, and you're like, I got to hit this, I have to. And then, you know, you can kind of spiral, you know, in the warmup room, and you're like, Oh, it feels a little heavy, start to worry. And it's like, Well, that's not that that's not helpful to the task. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So my one of where you need to go. Yeah, it's one of my cues, I guess, or thing like kind of a re centering practices is like, I feel how tight my belt is, like I feel this belt. And it's like supporting me and that feels it. And if I just focus on that, I can't actively think about anything else. Yeah, whatever. Anyway, because it's not tied to any performance thing, you see what I'm saying? It's like, yeah, that's also why, why meditation can help with feelings of happiness and contentment. Because the more you're paying attention to the actual sensations in the present moment, the less that you're focused on anxieties about what the future holds or about the past, because there's no room for that when you know, you're like, Oh, how is this? How does this chair feel that I'm sitting on? How is my weight distributed? You know, the sun on my skin, you just when you're in the present, there's most of the time, unless you're going through something really bad, you're safe, you're, you know, you're there, there's no threats around you. And then you focus on the physical sensations of the present, you try and, you know, bring in all of your, your senses. There's, yeah, you're not lost in your thoughts. Yeah, you know, anxious or stressed out or worrying about anything. It's hard to focus on multiple things at one time is what I found. And so, yeah, I think that's some good advice. You can, people can start with an app. They can start with their breath. They can start with some sort of physical sensation that they're actively feeling. Ideally, it's a neutral sensation, not like a particularly bad one. Because like with respect to pain, hypervigilance towards pain, tend to be a bad general badness for like how they recover from said pain, disability related to that and kinesophobia, fear of movement related to that pain. But otherwise, it's just challenging to focus on these three things at the same time. It's like pick something, ideally neutral and just kind of turn the wheel there. Yeah, just focus. And that's also where a lot of the research on learning and memory comes in, is that a lot of time, and this has come up a lot for me recently because everybody's talking about like, what new tropics should I take or like what, what, what supplements can I take to boost my memory and cognition? It's like, no supplement is going to help you if you're not paying attention to what you want to learn in the first place. And if you're focused on what you're learning, you are actively taking in that information. It's much easier for you to encode that into your memory versus when you're distracted. So no supplement is going to help you with your memory if you're not paying attention in the first place. And if you're training yourself to pay attention, even better for your memory. I love that. I love that. All right, well, let's pivot to visualization, kind of alluded to it earlier. In a way, I understand visualization. It's the technique that involves creating mental images of desired outcomes, experiences, potentially behaviors. And so it's like a form of mental imagery that aims to enhance performance, well-being, and ultimately achieve individuals' goals. Where I have had kind of some experience with visualization is in sport where you cannot actively practice or engage in that sport as much as you otherwise would like to. Sometimes there are rules. So for example, in MotoGP, they limit the amount of practice that competitors can do. It's a safety concern. So you can't go to the track every single day before race. Yeah, there's a certain amount of testing time, certain budget that can be allocated there in a certain amount of time because they don't want their athletes to just crash their brains out all the time. So what they'll do is not only SIM-based training, but also active. This is our visualization time. And so we're going to rehearse the course in your brain, this particular turn, or what gear are you in, and what's your lean angle, stuff like that. Is that legit? When it comes to performance in sport, is there good data on how visualization can carry over here? Yeah, and have you ever seen the videos of Formula One drivers that have got the steering wheel in their hands, and they have their eyes closed, or they're seeing it in an image, and they're mentally rehearsing that. But it's basically, they have learned the track, let's say, like the back of their hand, and they could do it with their eyes closed. And in that way, they're just, I mean, on the day when they're competing, it's they're just going to be so much more well equipped to do that because they already, it's like, it's like the muscle memory. Totally. But there's different types of visualization that you can do. Michael Phelps famously, I think it was the 2008 Olympics, he had water in his goggles while he was swimming. Terrible. Yeah. But he had, as part of his training, apparently would use different types of visualization where he would visualize, and this is called visualizing in the negative, which isn't always recommended for people, it's like a stoic principle where you imagine the worst thing that could go wrong, and you mentally rehearse how you would overcome if that were to happen. Sometimes people use that also if they're getting on stage, and they're nervous, or they're performing, or something like that, they imagine the worst thing going wrong, like forgetting what they were going to say, or just being too nervous to take the shot. And because they've mentally rehearsed it so many times, they know what to do in that situation if it ever happens in real life. It's like their backup plan kind of thing. Exactly. So it's just like mentally preparing yourself for that. But then again, it really depends on individual differences. There are some people for which that kind of technique wouldn't work because they would get too caught up in the anxiety of something going wrong, and then it would be the self-fulfilling prophecy where they're like, you know, they're just aware of all the things that could go wrong. Yeah, yeah. Do you find that there's like a particular type of visualization, whether it's rehearsing the act, right, which is maybe more like neutral, right? You're just doing the thing. That's called process visualization, where you're in the process of doing something or executing a task. And I assume there's also negative types of what's the worst thing that could happen, and I assume there's also positive visual, you know, what's the best thing that can happen? Yeah, and so then there's, yeah, so the main ones I think that people use, and especially with athletes, is process visualization, where you're visualizing the process of achieving the goal. And that helps you, first of all, because you're, you know, everything that it takes in order to get there. And that's what the F1 drivers are doing when they're visualizing the process of training for the, I don't know, all the right words for most. No, totally fine. But then you have outcome visualization, which is where you visualize the outcome. So you, a lot of people do this, they visualize what it would look like if they've already achieved their goal. So you could visualize, for example, what would it look like me winning this powerlifting competition? Yeah, a lot of dudes would be like, cool. So you visualize it, but you critically what you have to do to make it more effective and to engage more areas of the brain is to bring in as many senses as possible. So you have vision and the reason why that's so effective is because the visual system takes up such a big portion of the brain. Your visual cortex is quite big. And when you're visualizing something, you activate similar areas like overlapping areas as if you were seeing it in real life. So obviously you don't have the input from your eyes into the optic nerve and the visual cortex, but there are certain brain areas that are that are still activated as if you were really seeing it happen. And then if you bring in some of the other senses, maybe you can imagine yourself in the space, you can smell what that conference room smells like or what the air is going to be like. You can visualize your posture or how it feels to have achieved that goal. And that floods your brain with the same chemicals and endorphins as if you were really achieving that goal. And that helps you bridge the gap between where you are now and what's possible for you in the future. So for some like, you know, breath work, wellness, you people will co-opt some of that science and say, like, this is what manifestation is. You know, you can very quickly like, you know, fall into that kind of area, which is not something that I believe in personally, but I see visualization as a way, it is a way to work towards your goals. And there is also research that shows that if you practice visualization, like goal-oriented visualization, that you're more likely to achieve your goal. That's not because you're magically manifesting something to happen. It's because most of the time you see this as a practice that you do day in, day out. So every single day, you're priming your brain to think about what do I have to do in order to achieve that goal. And so your actions are going to be more aligned with, you know, maybe you're going to even on an off day, go to the gym or practice because you're like, hey, I've got this big goal and I can feel what it feels like to do that. And I need to practice and I need to, you know, get over however I feel today and make sure that it happens. Again, just last thing that I would say is that it's always like down to individual differences because there are some people where that's going to be really useful for them as a goal-setting technique. And then there are some people where because they've already felt all of the feelings associated with actually achieving the goal, actually end up less motivated to train the goal because they're already happy, they're already satisfied. Yeah, yeah. So ultimately not really helping them along. Yeah, I feel like they already got it. I feel like you just need to understand what kind of person you are. Yeah, yeah, identifying what are your predilections and what are your, you know, sort of maybe to co-opt the term from like business like pain points, like, okay, where's the gap? Yeah, some of this to me visualization seems almost like a like an information gathering process, especially if you are trying to, you know, you visualize yourself succeeding, for example, and you identify like, oh, there are various steps along the way that I was maybe either blind to previously or hadn't fully fleshed out and now you're like, oh, I need to address these things or should practice them. And visualization, I use it, I use visualization probably more than any of these other type things, particularly like related to meditation and other, other maybe mental health practices, mostly related to training, competing most of the time. And then also in motorsport, where you can rehearse a lap, what's the perfect lap and oh, if this line, this particular, you know, path through a corner is not available, I would do this one. And so you just have, there's a shorter road to go to what's planned B. You don't have to think on the fly, you've kind of already done that legwork. And so it becomes more, as you mentioned, like, is it muscle memory? Is it brain, brain memory? I don't know. It does seem to be useful for me, but I can also imagine a scenario where a person engages and all the stuff. And maybe that doesn't really work for them. And so, yeah, individual responses as most things. Yeah, I would say like as a goal setting technique, it's really great. It's like, you know, it's the difference between somebody who wakes up on or it's January 1st, and they like write a list of 10 things that they want to achieve in that year. And then they never look at that list again, versus somebody who says like, you know what, I'm going to visualize achieving this goal. And like, they're just much more likely to actually achieve it because they first of all, they remember it, they're paying attention to it. And then they're taking actions that are in alignment with that. Do you recommend that people, if someone wanted to start, again, visualization practices today, do you recommend like stacking that with a meditative practice? Like, okay, first get yourself focused and then pick a visualization target. Or is it like, you don't need to do that. Maybe we'll start with just a process based approach or something like that. Do you have any recommendations on this one? Yeah, I guess it really depends on the person. So first of all, there are some people who will be listening to this and they'll be like, I don't know what the hell you're talking about. Fair. Yeah, honestly. If you tell them to close their eyes and imagine an apple, they just won't have like they never, it's never happened for them before. Yeah, like what's an apple? Yeah, but like you can like what if you close your eyes and you visualize an apple, what does that look like for you? Yeah, I'm thinking this oblate spheroid object, it's shiny, it's smooth to the touch, the lights glaring off one side, wherever the light sources, it's in my case, it's green because green apples are superior, granny smith, preferentially that stupid stem is sticking out at a dumb angle. Okay, so you have like you have a very clear idea of what that looks like. I have the same mine is like green and a bit of red, like on the side, but I can see you like shiny and it's turning like I can see it turning. Oh, it's on a okay, it's on. Yeah, a little easy. There are some people who will be like, I have no idea what you like. I know what an apple looks like, but I can't just bring it to mind. And so there's a small percentage of a population that has something called aphantasia, where they cannot voluntarily recall images. So you tell them to imagine whatever it's not, it's like, they look at you sideways. There's nothing is black. So for those people, visualization is obviously not an option. It's something that you can train because it's not necessarily to do with not being able to see mental imagery. It's just that process of voluntarily recalling mental imagery that is kind of disrupted. So they might still be able to dream in pictures, but they won't be able to close their eyes and visualize something. It's that voluntary recall that just system is and you can train that by slowly practicing visualization and, you know, like it can get better over time for some people for some people, it can't. So if that's you, then maybe visualization is not going to be the way to go. But I would say all of these different types of meditation, it's mostly just about being able to focus and focus your attention. So if you're trying to visualize something and you're always getting distracted, yeah, maybe start with just a strict meditation first, train yourself to be able to pay attention if that helps. For some people, visualization is the better way to train attention because you have more anchors, like more things that you can call upon. You can call upon your sights and the sounds and like what it might feel like if you're really putting yourself into that space. Some people actually use this for, you know, to fall asleep because they imagine themselves like lying on a cloud and it's fluffy and it's dark and it's cool, you know, and you can really bring about all these different states of mind. But I would say just maybe set aside a few minutes every day to visualize something and it can be as simple as visualizing how you want the rest of your day to go forward. You know, you can visualize yourself achieving all the tasks that you want to do, being in good mood, having good conversations with people, having a good influence on people, people walking away from interactions with you, feeling like good and positive. So that's a really good way to start because it's like, it's real, it's tangible. Yeah, this may be a dumb comment, so just bear with me on this. But it does seem like what you're saying, obviously some regular practice, regular frequency doing this seems to be helpful, but temporally, time-wise, it seems like, yeah, ideally you're doing this beforehand, like whatever the task is. And is there like some immediacy type bias here where it's like, look, if you have a particular task that you want to get up for, you want to maximize your performance or your whatever, right before, is that the perfect, the best time? Or like, could you do it hours before? Could you do it days before? Yeah, like, okay, so it depends on what the task is specifically. I'm just thinking about squatting 300 kilos. So there are some studies, if you're looking at things with immediate effect where they do these, have you heard like ultrasound imaging of the muscles, immediate the biof- yeah, of course you have, because that's what you do. But like, this is, this is more, you know, separate to the work that I've done. But if you have, if you have this like real-time visual biofeedback, they've had this in settings where people are seeing their muscle be activated, and it's a specific muscle. And if they're visualizing that muscle be activated by seeing this ultrasound image, they can actually engage more of the muscle and engage more like smaller and specific muscle groups to increase like the muscle activation. Force production and such, yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, who would say that? If you're able to like recruit more of the muscle than if you were just like flexing with, you know, without kind of paying attention, and it's, and that visual feedback really helps. And so the same way, like if you, if you don't have that visual feedback from the ultrasound, you can do that by mentally like visualizing what's the muscle that I'm activating now. I think that's, but like, do you ever do that when you're doing a squat is like really paying attention to like, these are the muscles, I'm, and you really feel what it feels like to activate and engage that muscle? Yeah, I mean, with, when lifting heavy weights, most of the time I visualization strategies go to like, what would this perfect rep look like? And like, what am I feeling like with respect to the bar in a squat? For example, the bar is fighting me. It wants to crush me, take me forward. It wants me to fall, right? So what, what's that? What am I going to feel like? And what does it look like? And to the extent that I don't know, I could be placebo in myself. But if I'm trying to just catch a pump, you know, for the, for the bros, for example, yeah, I will divert my attention towards like, Oh, what? Yeah. Okay, my biceps. Sorry. Here's what that muscle, here's what it looks like anatomically. And I'm trying to do this particular action. Maybe that's been my hack this whole time. You know, I've just been visualizing my muscle. I do that, like there's so many times I'm at the gym and I'm just like, I'm on my phone and I'm just kind of like doing I just know I need to like, I have the weight set at the way that I know that it's like, I'm pushing myself, but I'm just doing it and trying to get it over with and just not paying attention. But then for the last few reps, it's like, I really need to focus so that I do this. And because when you're visualizing it and when you're paying attention, you're recruiting more of the muscle, like that will help with, you know, your gains, I guess. Yeah, mind muscle, maybe that's what people are really talking about. Because I'm like, Well, your mind is definitely attached to the muscle. Otherwise, you're going to be up a creek, like trying to get that thing to contract. So, you know, you can set that aside. But yeah, perhaps, you know, again, diverting attentional focus towards the muscle and or muscle groups that you're aiming to target. Yeah, seems like that is a reasonable ask for people that are like, How could I level up with my training here? And so you're actively doing while you're lifting, which is, but that's the whole principle of mindfulness. And, you know, we were talking about like, how do people begin? And a lot of the time people think like, I just, I don't have time to, you know, sit and do a 10 minute or 20 minute or 45 minute God forbid meditation practice every single day. But mindfulness is a form of meditation, which is you're just being mindful of like the sensations. This is what we're talking about. You don't need to take any time out of your day to practice mindfulness. The only thing you need to do is to remove the distractions and focus on the tasks that you're already doing. Practice mindfulness by like being mindful at the gym and focusing on the muscle activation and like imagining which specific muscle group you're targeting and what it feels like to lift the weight and what it feels like to all of this stuff. Like that is a meditation. Like your gym can be like a practice in mindfulness, just the same way as when you're cooking or when you're folding laundry, pay attention to the sounds, you know, and the smells and the textures. That is mindfulness and that's going to help you have a happier life because again, when you're being mindful and when you're being focused on the task at hand, your brain is less likely to think about all of these like awful scenarios that it's making up. Yeah, it's funny. I think people almost, and maybe I might be projecting is like, if you're doing a mundane task in life, you're almost purposely trying to be distracted. Like, I don't want to think that I'm doing laundry or dishes right now or cleaning, but it's like, this is an opportunity to practice being focused. Even if you don't want to smell the, you know, the smell of dish cleaner or the whatever, you know, how the fabric feels as you're folding it or whatever. But it's, but it could be a way when a person's busy life that they could actually kind of practice some of these. Yeah. And for those people who are, you know, wanting to know like the best new tropic and, you know, not man, will creatine help me with my cognitive function. The research is showing that the best thing for your memory are these idle moments. It's when you're not doing anything to just be mindful. That's when a lot of the information processing happens in your brain. It's like when you're at the gym, you need a rest state in order for the muscle to recover, right? Like it's part of your, the regimen. It's like essential. And it's the same thing for encoding memory. You're just constantly getting this barrage of information from all of your senses. And the brain is like it's, it's made to forget and not pay attention to things. Like if you were paying attention to all of the things that you're seeing and feeling and hearing at the same time, you'd be so, you know, I'm overwhelmed right now to be honest. Yeah, exactly. Because like you're not paying attention to the way that the shirt feels on my body or the way that the chair feels or the temperature of the floor or the air, you know, you're not, you're not paying attention to all those things. The brain is in a way created to forget and not pay attention to those things. Otherwise it would just be too much. But in those idle moments where you're sitting and doing nothing, don't try to use those to take in more information. And, you know, maybe sometimes when you're listening to a podcast, don't try and, you know, do that while you're also cooking and cleaning. Like I know that everybody wants to multitask, but maybe just sit down and listen to a podcast and try and take in the information from that. Like that's enough. Yeah, how about a single task? Let's start with a single task first. Yeah. Yeah. And there's also, you know, like a neuroscientist don't believe that multitasking is the thing, even though everybody like says that they love to multitask and that they're so efficient when they're doing 100 things at once. But like it looks like in the brain that it's, you're actually task switching between different things. Yeah. So you're not always, you're not paying attention to five things at once. You're switching your attention between like five different things, which is costing you a lot of mental energy. Yeah, you only get 20%. Yeah, I would love, the study I would love to see is you give people some sort of informational podcast, right? And half the group, they're listening to it while they're performing household tasks, for example. And the other half, they're just sitting there listening to the podcast. Yeah, they check retention. Yeah. Yeah, there are studies like that. And there's studies even where they followed up with people five years later who had to do a task where they had to remember like a few words or something like that. And they called them a few years later and they said, like, oh, do you remember the words that you had to remember for this experiment that we did? And the people who were paying attention and who were just sitting and doing nothing else, they were better able to remember five years down the line, the words that they were given. There you go. Well, maybe it's not about doing more, it's about doing better. Yeah, there's a sound bite. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, it is. Clip it. Yeah. All right. Because we were mentioning like how, like how long should you have to practice? And the studies that are the most solid studies on meditation, where you actually see structural changes in the brain, as well as the behavioral changes, is after like eight weeks of mindfulness. Okay. Because you have mindfulness based stress reduction, which is an eight week course, you do 20 minutes to 40 minutes every day. And if you want to see changes in your brain structure, so the neuroplasticity in action, and you know, more gray matter in your hippocampus, which is like helps you with memory as well, then eight weeks, you got to stick with at least eight weeks. And if you want to see state related changes, where you're actually changing who you are as a person, becoming a more mindful person, you want to do around 45 minutes every day. Well, yeah. That's a mask. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is. It is. It is. But then, but there are also benefits associated with doing it for like up to 20 minutes, but it's, it might just be a little bit more transient. Yeah. It's the same thing as exercise, though, right? Because people are like, okay, how long do I need to exercise to build muscle? It's like, well, it's not like one big gym session. No, you got to keep doing it. And it's going to be some number of weeks before you're actually going to be able to detect appreciable changes in the structure and morphology of the muscle. Although in one single session, sure, there's some benefit there, but they're stacked over time. Yeah, exactly. Same. All right. And here. Yeah. Mental workouts. The last thing I wanted to talk about before we wrap this podcast up is mental resilience. And this is one of the topics that was really interesting to me because when we started doing our seminar, we talk a lot about health and performance. So performance is pretty straightforward to define, but health is a little stickier. And you go in and you look for what have other people said for defining health. And, you know, it started in the 1940s where this definition published said it's being free of any disease, you know, mental, physical, emotional, whatever. And it's like, oh my God, in that case, no one's ever healthy. Right? Like, when are you in the state of Nirvana, like, you know, ever in your life? And so the definition we use in our seminars is from a 2011 piece written by Huber, not to be confused with Huberman. Huber in 2011, British Medical Journal. And the definition they use for health is that it is the ability to adapt and self-manage in the face of social, physical, and emotional challenges. Now, much of that definition has to do with the concept known as self-efficacy. So when somebody has confidence in their ability to exert control over their own motivations, behaviors, social environment, etc. So from a neuroscience standpoint, is some of this rooted in mental resilience? Like, is that really what we're talking about? Yeah, I definitely think so. There's different definitions of what mental resilience is, depending on who you ask or what theory you look at. Personally, for me, I look at it in a mechanical way. It's like, same way in mechanics, like if you exert force or pressure onto an object, how long before it bounces back to its original form and can be used for the same purpose. Some people like to talk about mental resilience as not just bouncing back from adversity, but also coming out better. Ooh, stronger, better. Yeah, okay, more robust. Yeah. Like, I don't always, I don't always go to that because I don't, you know, then you get into like this weird psychology world as well, where you're like, oh, everything bad happens for a purpose and you come out stronger. And like, I just, you know, that sometimes that stuff happens. Yeah, sometimes bad stuff just happens. But it's as long as you know that difficult times will come, but you have trust in yourself to overcome those things. And again, it changes from person to person. And it's like, depends on people's circumstances, because if Jeff Bezos lost his job, or if he was, you know, outed from Amazon, that's not going to affect him in the same way that it would affect somebody who works at the Amazon store, you know, who is responsible for feeding a family of four. It really depends on how, like what circumstances you're in, social factors, health factors, all of those things. But then also, yeah, I think a big part is how you reason your way out of a situation. Whether you can tell yourself like something bad is happening, but I trust myself to get over it. Something bad might be happening, but it's a redirection. It's, you know, something bad might be happening to me, but it's an opportunity for me to learn and to come out stronger and to like prove myself or something like that. I think that's really important because  with this whole meditation stuff, the reason why I became so interested in that is because when I was younger, bad things really happened. A lot of bad things happened to me, and I just had this mindset of, this is just my life, bad things just happen to me all the time and it's just going to be one thing after the next, and you kind of have this feeling of hopelessness. And even though I was studying psychology and then I did my neuroscience and then I was doing, it wasn't until I was actually looking specifically at the studies of putting monks in MRI machines that I realized, oh, I have a say of, I can determine how bad something is or how I'm going to reason my way out of this situation. And I think that's why these techniques are really useful because they give you a sense of power. We talk a lot about self-efficacy and particularly the different characteristics of people that have a high level of self-efficacy versus a low level of self-efficacy. And people who individuals have a high level of self-efficacy tend to have good insight into what's happening. They feel like they have some level of control over what's happening and ultimately have enough resources where they can kind of change the direction of what's happening. They feel like they can change the outcome. Whereas people with low levels of self-efficacy and a number of interesting things. One, they do not have good insight into what's happening. They also feel like they're not in control. They're not like a main driver of what's happening. And ultimately, they've also had multiple experiences where they have either failed to do something and so that's kind of like, yeah, helplessness is some sort of a feeling they commonly report. So when it comes to mental resilience, are there strategies? Like how do you get mentally more resilient? Like how do you develop that? Is it just, look, man, you need 45 minutes a day of visualization. You need 10 minutes a day of meditation and you need a journal and you're good to go. How would you recommend somebody like gets on the path to being more mentally resilient? So again, I would say it really depends on the person. But if you look at one of the ways that you look at mental resilience, there's six components. So there's health and this is your physical health, sleep, all of those things, nutrition, which is like a big thing. And that's important to just have that down and have that secured. And you have vision, which for a lot of people is the most important thing. It's you have this vision for your life and your future and like where you want your life to go. And that kind of like defines all of these other ones. Vision, then tenacity, and this is your ability to pick yourself back up after you've fallen down and keep going. That's a lot easier when you have a vision because you know what you're working towards. Then you have composure and this is all about your ability to stay composed when you're going through stress is to self-regulate. Mindfulness is really important here. And then the other one is collaboration and that's all about the relationships that you have in the social support. There's also studies that show that if you feel like you're part of a community, if you feel like you have social support, you're bound to be more resilient. But I think for all of those components, something that you can do to work on them is to develop that ability to, for self-awareness and reflection through something like meditation. And it doesn't have to be that strict meditation. I think I would encourage anyone who's interested in this to look up different types of meditation. But I think because the knock-on effects are so vast, it can help you with health and your relationships because it helps you be a better listener. It helps you pay more attention, remember things, have more engaging conversations. It also practices that non-judgment, which I think, and I'm not saying everybody who meditates is a good person or above everybody else, but I think it's a really good skill to have is to just see something or whether that's an adversity or whether that's something else to be able to see that, not judge it, but then critically think about how am I going to address this. And with some of the fMRI studies, what they've shown is that people who meditate a lot, they have better connectivity from the prefrontal cortex, like where all your executive functioning happens to the emotional areas of your brain, like your amygdala, even in some cases your amygdala can shrink, so you have less of that emotional reactivity. But you have better connectivity from your prefrontal cortex to your limbic system, emotional centers of your brain, which just allows you to approach problems with more of a level head, which I think is good in any circumstance. And especially if you want to be mentally resilient, you have to be able to have a clear mind when you go into a situation. Yeah, if you have more tools at your disposal that you can face this challenge with, in addition to maybe removing some of the self-deprecating judgment stuff that goes along, yeah, this is happening to me versus to use a manifestation phrase for me. But then you can use all these different types, you can use visualization to help you set a vision and a clear goal for your life if you're lacking direction. That can really help you because you can sit down and reflect for a few minutes every day. Where do I want my life to go, especially if you feel a bit lost? Where do I want my life to go? And it can also help you because a lot of the time people go through difficult situations, not because things are just happening to them, but because maybe they lack that vision and they're putting themselves into positions that they don't need to be in. For example, if you're in a job that it's not your dream job, it's not helping you get to where you want to go in your career. And it's a really shitty situation. Sorry if I cannot swear on this podcast. You're boss is awful to you, you're under so much stress and so much pressure. And that's affecting your health, that's affecting your relationships, that's affecting so many other aspects of your life. If you just had this vision of where your life was going, you might realize that you don't need to put yourself under all of this stress, you don't need to put yourself through that specific adversity. You can pick your battles, so to speak. And I think visualization can also be great for that, to help you build resilience, to help you realize that not every battle is worth fighting. Yeah. And a person who views themselves as in control of their own destiny on some level, they're probably more apt to make changes, or at least they feel more empowered to make changes versus a person who's like, I have no control over this, I can't do anything, I'm stuck. And it's like, well, you are now. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, interesting. Okay, I have, this is like a lightning round thing. So just here you go. I want to ask, I try to ask most of our guests these questions. So first off, this is a Barbell Medicine podcast, we have to talk about exercise on some level. What is your preferred exercise, like routine? I think, as I recall, you were previously in like body, but like physique competition stuff. What are you doing now? Are you a Pilates princess, or what are we doing? Not after your podcast. Thank you. Yeah, I listened to that. No, no, no, I still love strength training, bodybuilding. I think for me, it just gives me a lot of structure, because it's, yeah, like, I don't know, it's very goal oriented, which makes sense to me. Before I did that, I spent years, like I would always be quite active, I would always be in the gym, but I wouldn't really see any progress. And then it just kind of came to a point where I'm like, why am I spending all this time? Like, yeah, I feel great. But like, I do want to see some results. So I love structured. Yeah, right. There you go. And nutrition and like, yeah. Yeah, no, it gives you, it's like a, it's a good anchor, right? You're like, okay, this is the process, you're goal oriented, here's my chart, my progress, everything that I do in my lifestyle is like, helping supportive. And I think for some people, especially when I was doing this like hardcore, and like, I would go for dinners and I would bring my own food. Some people thought that it was quite restrictive and I understand that it can be and it's not, you know, the healthiest of types of exercise, especially if you're competing, which I never did. But for me, it was actually very freeing because I just hired somebody else to keep track of my progress, to tell me what to eat and what to exercise. And so that just took a lot of that mental load off of me. Yeah, I like that. All right, second lightning round question. I'm going to ask for either what you're currently reading or a book recommendation that you'd want to pass on to our audience. Yeah, none of the fairies, that's not appropriate, that's not. I haven't even read that. Yeah, good. Good. But I'm so tempted. Yeah, yeah, right. Okay, so a book, a book that basically that changed my life and my understanding and also the course of the research that I was interested in, many years ago now, I think 2008 was the emotional life of the brain. This is by and I always mix this up and I should probably learn it, but can't be bothered either Richard Davidson or David Richardson. It is by Richard Davidson. Richard Davidson, who he is a professor from the University of Wisconsin, or was at the time, but they were, they really pioneered a lot of the work on, you know, putting monks and MRI machines, understanding what's happening in the brain when people are meditating. It was really inspiring to me and this was really transformational for me when I was, in that mindset of these things are always happening to me and this is just how my life is going to look and it's just going to be one thing after the next. And I think from that book, and it might be a bit old now, hopefully there's an updated version, it really helped me understand how I can change my outlook on life and how I can change my brain and understand my emotions in a different way. Yeah, I like that. Okay. Next lightning round question. What's one thing that people should start doing to improve their mental game? Can I say stop doing? Sure. Start multitasking. Start monotasking. Stop multitasking. I like that. It's a trend. Do one thing at one time. Like it's enough. Sure. And yet potentially combining that with like just focusing on what you're feeling, what you're seeing, what you're hearing, what you're smelling, whatever, just at the time. Yeah, if you have something to do, just do that thing. I promise you there's going to be enough like information from all of your senses to like pay attention fully to that one thing. Cool. I like that. Last but not least, where can people find you? We'll link all the stuff in the show notes, but yeah, where can people find you on the interwebs and such? On the interwebs, a few different places. So I use my sub stack to talk a little bit more about some specific research in neuroscience, particularly to do with meditation, like wellness-y stuff, debunking some of the thought pieces on that. I use my Instagram to poke fun at a lot of the wellness trends and meditation trends. So if you're interested in more of like just not so serious content, you can find me there. My sub stack is rewiremeet with Ansofi. Like that? Yeah. And then my Instagram, I don't know if I can say it. Yeah, it's koochiebygoochie. I'll link that in the show notes. Just link it. My Instagram is linked in the show notes. Yeah, I would love to see you guys there. Perfect. Well, thank you so much for joining us on the Barbell Medicine podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. Again, I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Beigemann. Special shout out to Ansofi Flurry for joining us on this podcast. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all this nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: New 2025 Blood Pressure Guidelines： Why Everything is Changing (Kinda)｜ Two Doctors Explain [THzwgdMJO2g].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and it's time to talk about blood pressure once again, and why almost everything you knew is changing. Think of it, when was the last time a simple number could label you with a lifelong disease? Now, for decades, medicine has used a single binary threshold for conditions like high blood pressure or hypertension, but we now know that cardiovascular risk is a continuous spectrum, not a simple on-off switch. And today, we're diving into a new risk-based approach that's used to diagnose high blood pressure, finally moving past those old rigid cutoffs. We'll also break down the updated 2025 American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association guidelines that are pushing for a lower blood pressure goal for most adults, based on the latest evidence, but that's not all. We'll cover the condition that's often called the Silent Epidemic of Hypertension, a condition called primary aldosteronism, and why new guidelines now suggest screening all individuals with high blood pressure for this common, yet often, misdiagnosis. Plus, we'll look at the latest data on drug efficacy, how often you should be checking your home blood pressure if you're monitoring it on your own, and we'll even weigh in on the effectiveness of the new Apple Watch Hypertension Detection feature. Ready to get the updated facts that could change how you practice and how you train? Let's dive in. But first, we have to introduce the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, excited. This is an area that people have paid attention to for a long time, but man, the past few months slash year or so of new publications and guidelines and research coming out, it just accumulated to a point where I was like, dude, we need to do a kind of a comprehensive update, because some of the ways that I even practice and how I assess and manage patients has been directly impacted by much of this in the past year. So, yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, as you set off air, blood pressure is life. And maybe this whole thing is more important than whether or not you put a couple kilos on the squat. Maybe. Maybe. We'll see. But we are the Barbell Medicine Podcast, so maybe the next podcast is how to add two and a half kilos to your squat. No. All right. Well, let's just dive right into it, because there is a lot of information to cover. First, let's revisit this idea of how someone gets diagnosed with high blood pressure or even like high cholesterol. Again, there's usually these cut points like, oh, if it's above this mark, that means you have this condition, you get the diagnostic label. But Austin, you want to cover how this normally happens in practice? How do people get a diagnosis of like high blood pressure? Yeah, I mean, this states back a long, long time to how we first figured out how to measure these things. If you go back to the original days of measuring blood cholesterol levels, for example, our best measurement at the time, our only real measurement, was just drawing a total cholesterol level. We didn't have any of these kind of sub fractions, sub tests, things like that. And we just had very crude correlational data. And so at the time, you know, you establish some somewhat arbitrary cutoff that attempts to divide those with a disease from those without. It ends up being necessarily pretty crude. And you end up refining that over time as you get better and better, you know, understanding of the disease, you end up getting more accurate and reliable and precise testing. And you also get a better sense of this kind of risk, what we'll call stratification, how precisely and accurately can we divide out those who are truly higher risk versus lower risk? And is it really a binary like that higher versus lower risk? Or is it a gradient, a spectrum of risk, as we'll get to here? And then if it is a spectrum, how do you decide in whom you are going to recommend treatment or at least have that discussion with the patient? Because they're the person who ultimately, you know, is going to be the one who makes that decision, whether to pursue treatment, what that treatment looks like, and how aggressive they want to be about it. And so the same applies with blood pressure, where, you know, we originally got data, I think it was like in the in the 50s or 60s, the first VA cooperative study was the one at the time that looked at blood pressure elevations and the risk of cardiovascular events like strokes. And at the time, you know, the study, if I recall off the top of my head, that one, they were looking at people who's like diastolic blood pressure was over 115, which is like one extremely high. And no surprise, those who had untreated blood pressure is that high. We're at much higher risk of having things like strokes. And when they were treated with medication therapy at the time, and for the record, those are meds that we generally don't use anymore. Those are very outdated drugs, but they were at least effective at lowering blood pressure. There were massive impacts on their risk of stroke. And so, you know, if you think at that time, well, okay, at least we know, based on these data, that having a diastolic blood pressure below 115 is better than having a diastolic blood pressure above 115 diastolic being the bottom number. Most people think of 115 as like, oh, cool, that's a good top number. But this is diastolic, right? So that's as crude as we were able to get at the time, recognizing that at that severe level of elevation, there is a significant potential benefit of lowering it. And in the intervening decades, we have gotten better and better and better data and a better sense of where and how does this risk relationship kind of shake out. The conspiracy minded folks among us will tend to think, well, back then, the cutoff for, say, total cholesterol was over 300 or 200 or whatever the case is. And they really just lowered these cutoffs because they want to sell you more drugs. Or the blood pressure cutoff used to be, you know, a diet, just keep your diastolic below 115 and they're lowering it and tightening it just so they can sell you more drugs as if a large fraction of pharmaceutical revenue is coming from drugs that are pennies, you know, and ultimately generic at this point, which is not accurate. It's just not an accurate representation of this decision making process and the quality of data that we have at this point to at least explain that risk relationship. It is not that our understanding now that in general for blood lipids, lower for longer tends to be better with very high quality prospective randomized controlled, you know, trial data and genetic data and things like that. And to some extent, we see similar relationships with blood pressure down to a level that is much lower than those original studies that we're looking at diastolics of 115 and higher. Now we start to see that people's risk of cardiovascular events measurably starts increasing as their blood pressures start to increase from somewhere in the range of like 110 to 115 systolic for the top number. As it gets higher and higher from there, we start to see people's risk measurably increased. Now it's not as great of an increase as people's cardiovascular risk when their blood pressure is up as high as 160, 170, 180 over the long term, but it is measurable. And so there are implications for that as far as what somebody, how somebody ought to approach the question of how do I maximally mitigate my cardiovascular risk if that is something I want to do. And then from there we can decide, well, what are the potential tradeoffs of that, right? So if I wanted to push somebody's blood pressure down that low, at least pharmaceutically, what tradeoffs are there that I need to be considering mainly in terms of side effects of therapy and things like that. But is there a potential benefit? Based on this continuous spectrum of risk over the lifespan, it seems that getting it lower, not forever, like lower and lower for blood pressure, but down to a certain level, we tend to see significant benefits. So that's kind of been the evolution over the past, let's call it, you know, 100 years of cardiovascular risk estimation with respect to cholesterol and blood pressure and shifting from setting cutoffs based on the best crew data we have at the time to this more continuous variable understanding, not only continuous in terms of measurement, but also across the entire lifespan. Yeah, yeah, you've sort of felt this shift coming, like little by little, you know, especially over the last, I want to call it 20, 25 years. I mean, you think JNC 7, right, Joint National, what is it, Coalition or Committee, Committee, yeah, 7 came out in like 2003, right? And they're like, look, if your blood pressure is greater than one systolic blood pressure grade 115, there's some risk, you know, but you don't know what the risk is. Well, what if it's 116 or 117 or 120, there wasn't, there was no like quantification of that. And we're not that refined yet, but I suspect 20 years from now, like, look, for every one millimeter of mercury that you were above this certain threshold, if you have these other risk factors or none of these other risk factors will be able to get more granular, right? But it is, as you said, getting more and more refined. But you kind of felt this coming, you know, the way clinicians and researchers who were in the know, start talking about blood, have been talking about blood pressure is that, look, if it's higher, that's generally worse. And if it's higher for longer, that's generally worse that if it's for a shorter period of time. And so this, it kind of felt like this was the logical end that you were going to come towards or move towards where it's like, yeah, maybe just this cut point of 120 over 80, it is insufficient to describe not only treatment targets, but also like general advice for, you know, what most people's blood pressure should be and how we think about it as like a broader maybe risk score. So that's a good segue into like this proposed shift towards diagnosing and treating elevated blood pressure and hypertension. It's kind of this risk-based approach. Do you want to talk people through these kind of this updated thinking using this new approach as far as like, what are the new targets maybe, and then also like, how do we arrive at this risk-based score? Sure. Yeah, it's kind of coalescing into what I will call a little bit more of a coherent approach across the different cardiovascular risk factors. But at the same time, I'm going to point out some potential areas for critique here and how individual clinicians or patients might opt for a different strategy based on their preferences, use to borrow some terms from elsewhere that we've talked about before, those who are so-called maximizers versus minimizers, those who want to do everything possible versus those who want to do the least possible to get the kind of a little bit more bang for the buck perspective on this. And so, again, shifting from a more binary, if you're above this number, if you get treated, if you're below this cutoff, you don't get treated, recognizing that this is a gradient or a continuous type approach. But there's also going to be differences based on people's other risk factors, right? So somebody could have high blood pressure alone. It could be mildly, moderately, severely elevated, but no other concerning risk factor for heart disease. They could have excellent metabolic health, blood sugar control, blood cholesterol levels. They might be otherwise lean, healthy, active, and just have a little bit of mildly elevated blood pressure. On the other hand, you can have somebody who has the same mildly elevated blood pressure, but it's also in the setting of maybe poorly controlled diabetes, some elevated blood cholesterol, they might smoke, they might have obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease. I'm painting a very different picture here, right? And then at the other end of the spectrum, you can have somebody with very high blood pressure, extremely elevated with no other risk factors, and the same time, somebody with very high blood pressure and all the risk factors. All of these are kind of different levels of risk. And so if you look back at cholesterol-based treatment guidelines, going back from those original days of, you know, the total cholesterol of over 200 is just like definitively high, and then refining it from there based on LDL or non-HDL, most recently, ApoB type metrics, and then also recognizing that we don't just knee jerk treat everyone above a certain cutoff in that situation, but rather the shift over the past 15-ish, 20 years to using what are called various predictive equations to estimate somebody's risk of having a heart disease or cardiovascular type event. So there have been several iterations of these risk calculators, and we actually talked about the most recent iteration called the prevent calculator that came out last year. And so the idea is that if we punch in people's cumulative set of, you know, established risk factors into these calculators, we can assess, well, what's their risk of having one of these things happen like a heart attack or a stroke in the next 10 years? And if somebody's risk is high, which is also somewhat arbitrarily set at about 7.5% or higher, then you have a more strong justification to treat this patient a little bit more aggressively, perhaps using medications. But if it is less than that cutoff, then maybe it's not super worthwhile, and you can, you know, reasonably continue to observe them. At least that's how a lot of clinicians approach this in practice. We get tons of questions on the forums, and I get, you know, barbell medicine, you know, consult inquiries from people who are maybe a little bit on the younger side, and maybe they have some high blood cholesterol or some high blood pressure, and they say, well, my doctor said that my 10-year risk is not very high, and so they weren't going to suggest doing, you know, anything, at least medication-wise about it, what do you suggest? And so I end up having these conversations relatively frequently. That was, however, not the approach that was typically taken for the management of blood pressure until more recent guidelines have come out, and as I said, had made it a little bit more of a coherent picture in the sense that they are now also advising treatment of blood pressure or not treating blood pressure based on this overall assessment of risk rather than just based on the blood pressure alone. So I can see a way in which this all makes sense of if we view blood pressure as a how high for how long, similar to blood cholesterol, how high for how long, all these other sorts of things, we can estimate somebody's overall risk and treat their cumulative risk rather than just treat the isolated variable of blood pressure or cholesterol alone. I think that that is a reasonable way to go about it, assuming that the population that you are looking at in front of you and trying to make these decisions, like the person, the patient, is well represented by the studies on which these calculators were derived and things like that. So is it generalizable to that person? The issue or the critique that we have had historically is that, you know, these things like high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, these other cardiovascular risk factors, they can emerge or be present in people who are much younger. And the problem with that is that, you know, somebody who's in their 20s or early 30s, we're not generally that concerned about their 10-year risk of having a heart disease type of antirahstroke. And so just basing our treatment recommendations on what's their risk in the next 10 years, it kind of gives them this 10-year window of unmitigated exposure if you don't do anything else about it. And so their 20 year, their 30 year, their 40 year risk, if you want them to live a long time without having a heart attack or stroke, you're not really doing a ton to modify that risk trajectory. And so waiting until their risk gets high enough, well, there's a fair argument to be made that that's not a super wise decision because you can't undo that exposure later on in life. And so there is an argument that you could make, particularly for those that might resonate as quote unquote maximizers who want to do as much as possible, that potentially treating things a little bit more aggressively, potentially treating them a little bit earlier in life, if your goal is to maximally impact your lifelong risk of these sorts of complications, might be wiser than just deferring just because you're young, for example. And so that's kind of the big picture perspective on this shift from a binary treatment threshold for blood pressure to a more risk-based, which is now a little bit more in line with the risk-based treatment of blood cholesterol levels, both the pros of that approach, as well as some of the potential cons and critiques that we have encountered and that we are faced with when working with people and patients in day-to-day practice. Yeah. To me, it just seems like maybe an expansion of how blood pressure is viewed. Again, it's less of just a single number, looked at in isolation, irrespective of the patient. Not that I think that most physicians were practicing in that manner, but at some time, you have to make clinical decisions, and you have limited time. Unfortunately, we go back to the problems with the system. And so you're like, well, this patient in front of me, we've got an in-office measurement of 135 for their systolic blood pressure. And just looking at them, while they're young and active, they're probably fine. Something like that. That clinician has made a bunch of assumptions and probability-based assessments, and it's like, I don't necessarily think I need to treat this person, but maybe this new information and additional guide for assessing a person's risk over time might actually change what's happening in the clinic. Yeah, one of the interesting things about that is when you're talking about somebody who's young, who might get brushed off, that's a very common thing because, in general, the absolute risk in the near term for somebody who's young of these things is not terribly high. The interesting thing in being in practice, having done primary care, working in the hospital setting, and knowing how a lot of other clinicians operate is they might see a younger person with a little elevated blood pressure in clinic, and the next appointment might be somebody who is in their 80s or even later. And the perspective that they take might be that the young person, they're probably fine, they're quote-unquote too young to put on a blood pressure medicine or to treat their blood pressure or their blood cholesterol, whereas they won't necessarily bat an eye at tweaking it in the older person because they, in absolute terms, the shorter term risk in that older person is, yes, I agree, it is much higher. In my mind, that is a completely backwards approach because the young person is the person whose long-term risk, if unaddressed, is going to accumulate, and you can do something about that now. The person who's in their 80s or 90s, they've already won the game, they have gotten past the average life expectancy, and the whole point of these preventative measures of treating blood pressure and blood cholesterol is so that you can get old and be healthy, or at least not have suffered one of these events. Once you get to that point, and you have maybe, indeed, not suffered one of these events, again, you've won the game, you don't have to necessarily be as ultra aggressive at that point if it's not within the person's goals. And so I'm more often taking the opposite approach of this younger person, those are clues early on in life that I ought to do something or at least address whether it be lifestyle-related or even potentially these meds to mitigate that long-term risk. Whereas the much, much older person, I flip it and I'm like, man, this person's too old to be treating their blood pressure. Yeah, carry on. Yeah, because there's various risks that we'll get to later in being over-aggressive with those patients, and that's actually what I end up seeing more often in the hospital. Yeah, it kind of draws this analogy of how I think about strength training, prescription, and my spidey sense for how important it is for somebody's health. You see a 25-year-old, 30-year-old or whatever who's maybe not exercising, and they express some interest in it, and you're like, yeah, you should do everything. Train like a professional athlete. Go crazy. Go crazy. And it's like, it is likely to improve their health to some level, but the degree of benefit and their existing vulnerability for like sarcopenia, decreased muscular function or whatever is not likely to manifest for decades. Whereas somebody in their 60s, that is imperative to them that they start doing some sort of exercise right now if they're not currently doing it. It's far more important for their immediate trajectory than it is for the younger person, whereas it's kind of flipped backwards amongst most people who think about exercise. They're like, yeah, you're in your 20s. Yeah, go crazy. Go off. Train like a professional athlete, whereas the way I look at it, if you're in your 60s, I'm like, you need to train like a professional athlete because your life depends on it on some level. Yeah, I mean, your cumulative exposure to the iron, to the weights, can impact very potently your bone density and beyond a certain point in life, particularly for post-menopausal women who are not on hormone therapy and things like that. It gets steeper and steeper and steeper uphill battle to try to restore or mitigate bone losses, for example, if you haven't done that earlier in life. It's a similar perspective, just interpret it a little bit differently in terms of this cumulative lifelong exposure to good things or to bad things, be it weights or blood pressure. Yeah. All right. Well, let's talk about these new targets. The 2025 ACC and AHA guidelines, those are acronyms for the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. These new guidelines were released and there are some updates to actual blood pressure targets, as well as thresholds for treatment. Just a few highlights here. The new guidelines did reaffirm that for adults with confirmed elevated blood pressure or hypertension that the target should be an office blood pressure goal of less than 130, that's the top number, over 80 millimeters of mercury, that's the bottom number of diastolic blood pressure. Then there's an encouragement to further reduce systolic blood pressure, again, that's the top number, to less than 120 millimeters of mercury for adults. To me, that seems like a relatively mild update, but phrased more clearly because before there was some hemming and hawing and hand waving, like, well, look, if it's an older person, you don't really need to get down that low. Or if a person has other comorbidities, maybe we were more liberal with their blood pressure targets and now they're like, probably shouldn't do that. Is that your understanding of this, what I would call a mild update? It was kind of out there, but not phrased as clearly in previous guidelines. I think it's making it more clear that to this threshold of less than getting it down into the systolic into the teens, for example, this concept of lower into that range is generally better. But it also is, I would say, a good idea or helpful because it kind of puts the onus or part of the decision-making on the clinician to individualize that treatment approach based on the person in front of them of how aggressively do I want to go about this and how am I going to get there? Because the how also matters, right? So if you can get it down that low safely, then that's generally going to be beneficial for their heart disease risk. But if you gave just a blanket recommendation of we want everybody's resting blood pressure in the office setting to be 115 over 70, there is going to be a fair amount of unintended harm from that sort of thing for a few reasons. One, we know that on average, office blood pressure measurements tend to be higher than people's actual resting blood pressure measurements when they're at home or going about their life. And that's why several years back, the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force actually recommended that in order to confirm a diagnosis of high blood pressure that we actually try to get out of office blood pressure measurements if we can get high quality measures that not that we shouldn't exclusively rely on in-office measures alone. And so we know that if you're in office, say, is that tightly controlled that you're probably going to be even lower at home. And for those who are maybe older, who have some comorbidities, who have like neuropathy or neurological conditions or various other things, maybe they end up falling a little bit more often and having injuries like that from that, which is something that I actually see on a pretty regular, regular basis. So it does deliver this message of like, in general, lower is better if safe. And you get to decide below that lower threshold whether it is safe and how you want to actually get there with the person in front of you. Yeah, yeah, they actually further comment on treatment sort of thresholds where they say, look, if you're an adult and you have a blood pressure measurement of greater than 140 over 90 in any adult, probably a good idea to start an anti-hypertensive medication will actually talk about some updates to how you go about doing that, what agents are selected. And then they further kind of refine this and say, well, look, if it's not quite 140, but it's greater than 130 over 80, and you have risk factors of heart disease based on this prevent calculator that's we've linked in the show notes below, if it's greater than 7.5%, you probably would benefit from an anti-hypertensive medication as well, again, further kind of refining these targets for individuals. And then further, they say, well, look, if it's less than or if it's greater than 130, you don't have any cardiovascular risk factors, but you could probably try lifestyle alone, especially if your risk is less than the 7.5% kind of arbitrary cutoff. However, if it maintained, if you can't get a hold on it, you can't get it to below 130 over 80 in like three to six months, probably would also benefit from some medications. And again, this is, I don't know if this is like in response to a criticism of the previous update, which was like 2017 American Heart Association guidelines where they're like, look, we're low on the blood pressure targets. And if you're a skeptic or a critic, you're like, well, look, they're just trying to sell more antihypertensive drugs, which, hey, look, full marks like understandable how you could come to that position. Although if you read the whole document, they're like, no, we want to push lifestyle earlier to try to get a handle on this. But now that again, they've made it more clear, perhaps in response to that criticism. I don't actually know what the, what the committee, you know, how they, how they kind of arrived at this clarification. But to me, it seems reasonable. Yeah, I agree. And I like that they put this kind of caveat or at least the time point on there, because what you sometimes see is if you follow a, you know, maybe a young person who's seen in a primary care clinic, they're not necessarily seen terribly frequently, especially if they don't have a ton of medical problems. And so maybe they come in and they have a concerning, you know, maybe mildly, moderately elevated blood pressure at one of their visits. And maybe the doc says, yeah, let's just like, you know, do some lifestyle changes, heavy air quotes around that, whatever that counseling actually looks like for that person. And then I'll see you in six months, maybe, and maybe that person doesn't actually come back for their six month appointment. And then they come back a year later, also maybe any year later, their blood pressure still elevated, or maybe they're, you know, maybe they're 20s or 30s, and they don't actually see a doctor every year. And so then two years, three years, five years later, they come back. That's years worth of exposure to unnecessarily elevated blood pressure that has not been kind of controlled. And yes, in that short two, three, five year time period, their risk of a stroke is not going to be massively elevated. But that cumulative exposure across the lifespan is the thing that does drive long term risk. And so this is a period of time where we do have more opportunity. And so, you know, when I have these kind of conversations with folks, I give them often a couple of different options. I often have a conversation about here are some of the specific lifestyle things that if we do them, here is the timeline on which I would actually expect to see blood pressure improvements. And so if somebody goes all out with all the behavior change stuff, maybe they reduce their alcohol intake, improve their sleep, exercise, take a few inches off their waist measurement, adjust their diet to promote a healthier dietary pattern, their blood pressure is going to come down in a matter of, you know, days to weeks, I would expect to see that, right? It's not going to take six months to see that. If somebody is going a little bit more gradually, maybe single behavior change at a time, it might take a little bit longer. But I'm not going to say, hey, let's do these things, and then I'll see you in a year or something like that. Or alternatively, what we could do is to spare you that exposure. We could start a super low dose of a medicine now. And then if we end up seeing that your blood pressure is coming down well into the normal range, or even starting to dip a little bit lower than that, then we can just come off the medicine later and we will have, you know, avoided this unnecessary exposure to elevated blood pressure. And so we work through that decision making process kind of together. And patients will opt for different things based on their preferences and things like that. Yeah, that's actually a study I would like to see something large hundreds of thousands of patients where, you know, they're like age match, generally, generally match for like demographics and other information. And then half of them get sort of early medication exposure. Sure. And the other are like, oh, we're going to let this ride for a few months while we initiate lifestyle stuff. And then hopefully you come back and we get a get a measurement. I would be curious, like if you took the that study that those groups, and you follow them for 10 years, 20 years, is there a difference? Because if you see a clear difference, like, well, shoot, maybe we shouldn't do this like early medication if there's no real benefit. Or if there is an apparent benefit, maybe you don't do this sort of like, let's do the lifestyle stuff first and kind of piecemeal it that way. Yeah, I think that that's a that would be a study that would be ideal to have. I don't envision us getting something like that. And ultimately, it's also going to be a matter of degree. And so I think that there would need to be there would need to be some fancy statistical analysis that is above our heads to determine basically, you know, I guess if you think about blood pressure exposure as this area under the curve type cumulative thing over the lifespan, how much or what is the what is the kind of spectrum of risk reduction based on how much of that area under the curve lowering that you get? That was a very confusing way of explaining what I'm trying to say is like, how much did you lower the person's blood pressure upfront? And for how long versus not doing that? And then what was the impact on their risk say 10 years, 20 years, 30 years later? I don't envision we're going to get that study, but that would indeed be interesting to see. Yeah, hey, look, if you're a researcher, just do that. We don't need another creatine study. We need this. How about that? All right, well, look, after the break, we'll be back to talk about new blood pressure screening guidelines, Apple watches, hypertension detection feature and more. All right, we're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We're talking about blood pressure once again, because there have been a lot of updates recent guidelines have.  change some new guidance on what to do for individuals with not only high blood pressure screening and also how to treat individuals with elevated blood pressure. So let's get back to this screening discussion. This was interesting. Now, it's interesting to me as just like a general physiology sort of nerd. I'm like, oh, this is like way more prevalent than we thought. The fact that it's been called like the silent epidemic of secondary hypertension, I did not know that, but it is interesting. So the new clinical practice guidelines from not only the endocrine society, but also you know, there's some guidance in the AHA document. The endocrine society though goes one step further. They say, look, we suggest that all individuals with hypertension be screened for primary aldosteronism by measuring a plasma aldosterone concentration and renin concentration activity and determining the aldosterone to renin ratio. Potassium should also be assessed not for screening itself, but to aid in the accurate interpretation of aldosterone. Now, look, if you haven't taken physiology in the last few years, or all these words are a little foreign to you, here's the overview here. So one of the ways that the body controls blood pressure is by what's known as the renin angiotensin aldosterone system. Now, renin is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It is released in response to reduced blood pressure, which triggers the adrenal glands they sit on top of the kidneys. They produce this other hormone called aldosterone. And aldosterone's job is to make the kidneys retain salt and water, which raises blood pressure and blood volume. Now, in primary aldosteronism, the adrenal glands overproduce aldosterone, but from some mechanism. This leads to sustained high blood pressure that doesn't tend to respond well to standard blood pressure treatment. It can also lead to low potassium levels, which we call hypokalemia. So the new guidelines recommend screening everyone with high blood pressure for primary aldosteronism, because it is so common, something like 14% of all individuals with hypertension in primary care setting have primary aldosteronism, which is actually higher in some specialty clinics. So this is something you've been doing for a few years, I assume because you got wind of this and you're like, huh, that's interesting. What's the reason why you think this took a few years to come into the new guidelines? Has it been collecting more data or just because things move slowly in medicine or what's up? Yeah, a little bit of all the above as a kidney physiology nerd. This definitely caught my attention. And yeah, so I first caught wind of this several years back by way of some endocrinologists who I follow and reading some of the papers that they were citing as this being definitely way more common than was recognized. And for, I know we have plenty of medical trainees, students, residents in the audience, even obviously colleagues and things like that. And we think back to how we get taught about this condition in medical school about primary aldosteronism or also known as con syndrome, where you have this benign adrenal tumor as the classic kind of teaching that is overproducing this hormone that leads to salt retention, blood pressure, elevation. The way we are taught about this condition is that you should start to suspect it when somebody meets criteria for what's called resistant type retention, meaning difficult to treat high blood pressure. So in other words, somebody comes in with run of the mill high blood pressure, you don't actually think about this until much, much, much later in the process. And the criteria for resistant hypertension is for people to be on maximal doses of at least three drugs and one of them has to be a diuretic drug. And all of that takes a fair amount of time for a patient to get started on one drug and then another drug and a third drug and for the doses to get maximized. Or if they have the textbook features of very, very high blood pressure and low blood potassium levels, which as with most kind of like textbook collections of findings, doesn't actually happen in most patients. So most patients with this condition don't have that kind of characteristic finding of super high blood pressure and spontaneous low blood potassium levels. And so I think the issue was that too few people were thinking about this condition and it was not commensurate with how common it is that was under recognized. I think if you tell most people that up to 14% of people with high blood pressure in a primary care clinic might have a degree of this because it just like high blood pressure itself, it's not a binary. You have it, you don't, but it's rather a spectrum. So you don't have to have a blood pressure of 180 over 110 with a super low blood potassium level to have primary hyperaldo. It's how much are you actually producing and what's the net impact. So you can have it with much milder blood pressure elevations and without low blood potassium levels at all. I think that any of the primary care docs who are listening to this right now, they have over a hundred, they have well over 100 patients in their primary care patient panel who have high blood pressure just because of how common it is, right? Upwards of our, I think around 45 to 47% of adults in the U.S. have high blood pressure, right? So if you take their primary care panel, you know that over 100 patients in their panel have high blood pressure, 14 of those have some degree of primary hyperaldoestronism. I would suspect that anywhere from zero to like two of those might even be detected or suspected. And even for those who are on multiple medicines, including a diuretic and things like that, it is often still insufficiently tested. Maybe because the person also has obesity or they have sleep apnea and people say, think, oh, I have better explanations for why they might have this. And so it's not actually tested. So I think that we think about it too late, not often enough that doesn't match the prevalence of this condition in practice. And again, what I keep coming back to is if somebody needs to meet those criteria to be on all these medicines at high doses, that could take a year or longer for somebody to get on all of those things. And we know that people with primary hyperaldoestronism, even for a similar degree of blood pressure elevation, they have a higher risk of strokes and heart attacks and atrial fibrillation and heart failure and kidney disease. And this is in part thought to be just due to the direct toxic effects of aldosterone, the hormone in the body. And so it's not equivalent to somebody else with the same degree of blood pressure control. We keep coming back to this in different conversations, how you get there matters. So if your blood pressure gets up to a certain level because you're deadlifting, short term, not what I'm worried about, if you have run of the mill high blood pressure and you get up to that level, okay, I'm concerned. If you have primary hyperaldoestronism and you get up to that degree of blood pressure, I'm even more concerned because I know that even for a similar degree of blood pressure, you have a higher risk of having all of these bad complications. And then the other consideration here is that this is a much more straightforwardly treated condition because we have medicines that directly block aldosterone called mineralic corticoid receptor antagonists like spironolactone, a plurinone, et cetera, and some other ones that can have effects on this pathway. Or if somebody has that benign tumor in their adrenal gland, they can undergo surgery, cut it out, and then they're cured of all high blood pressure and they don't need to be on any medicines. I've seen this miraculous effect happen in patients who are found to have those benign tumors, you cut it out and they're cured. I think a lot of patients would take that if you find it. But the only way you find it is if you think about it and you look, and that involves doing this straightforward blood test. And so yeah, ever since I learned about this a few years ago, I said, well, I'm going to start testing this in pretty much everyone I diagnosed with high blood pressure in a primary care setting. I'm not doing it in my hospitalized patients because that's not the right place to be doing that in general for most patients. Once in a rare while, I'll still do it, but not often. And so sure enough, a couple years down the line, now we're starting to see it incorporated into more clinical practice guidelines. And so hopefully this gets disseminated both from the guidelines and from us talking about it here today. Yep. One correction and I'm going to quiz you here on the spot, which I know that you love. Are you aware of the differences between renin and renin? Well, I almost corrected you because I know that nephrologists were going to get triggered, that the correct pronunciation is renin. Yes, exactly. Yes. It's often mispronounced, but I wasn't going to be that annoying. No, no. Yes. So not only when I was doing my masters in anatomy and physiology, the professor was like, I'm sure either I or another one of my classmates said renin because you just see it. It's common. Yeah. And he goes, renins and cows, it's a digestive enzyme that curdles the milk, whatever, and other ruminant animals have it in their gastric juices. Humans, we're talking about renin when it comes to the renin angiotensin aldosterone system. So look, I forget his name, my professor, but if you happen to be listening to this, I'm so sorry. You taught me well. I'm just an idiot. So I don't know what to tell you. All right. Well, no, that's a good summary. Definitely practice changing, I would suspect for many. Yeah. And yeah, so that's definitely important part of this update. Speaking of updates, let's talk about some updated treatments here. So traditionally, treating individuals with elevated or high blood pressure meant starting on a single medication at a standard dose and then increasing that dose as needed to achieve the target blood pressure or blood pressure goal, occasionally adding additional medications as needed. However, new data has been flipping this on its head, which again, if you're a skeptic, you're like, of course, big pharma is coming out with these new studies, we have to use more medications. So Dr. Baraki, why don't you unpack this a little bit? Like, why is this becoming a thing? And like, how does this actually change practice with respect to treating elevated blood pressure? Yeah, this reflects how I've been doing this for a while now and is also a little bit more coherent with a similar approach to how I turn to manage high blood cholesterol levels, at least in patients who are not like ultra ultra high high risk. And one caveat here is that treating high blood pressure also first line, including in every clinical practice guideline that you read, is going to involve all of the lifestyle modifications that we talked about earlier, all of the things that are in our guide on high blood pressure on the website that relates to things like improving the quality of the dietary pattern, getting sufficient physical activity, addressing obesity, sleep, alcohol, things like that. So we have detailed information on that for people. So it's not necessarily jumping straight to a blood pressure medicine, unless you do need to jump to that based on the person's risk and that whole conversation that I discussed earlier. And so, yeah, when I went through training, it was typically just start one med because that's simpler and then you maximize get up to the max dose. And then if you still need more, then you can start a second one. And the idea there was to keep things as simple as possible for patients. We've talked about this a little bit again in the realm of lipid lowering, and I'll readdress it here. But this topic was prompted by a new meta analysis that I believe was published in the Lancet of almost 500 randomized control trials. So 484 RCTs, over 100,000 patients in these trials. And it was basically looking at what is the treatment effect based on different ways of using these blood pressure medicines. So I'll explain this slowly because it is really important to understand. If I start you on a single medicine at the standard dose of that medicine, on average, I'm going to get about 8.7 millimeters of mercury lowering. So that's say for your top number on that blood pressure, on average, across the most common like first line classes of blood pressure lowering medicines, one drug standard dose about 8.7 percent, sorry, 8.7 millimeters of mercury lowering of your blood pressure. If I double that dose, take you from a standard dose up to twice that much. On average, I'm going to only get an extra 1.5 millimeter of mercury lowering of your blood pressure on top of the initial almost nine from the standard dose. So standard dose about nine, doubling that only about 1.5 points more blood pressure lowering. Now what goes up as we tend to double triple quadruple doses is the incidence of side effects. Now in general, these blood pressure medicines tend to be quite safe and don't tend to have severe side effects in most patients, even at higher doses. But at higher doses, side effect risks are going to necessarily go up. Whereas it seems that the effectiveness that I'm getting out of it is diminishing significantly. What if I start you on two medicines up front and both of them are at the standard doses? I'm going to get per this data, these data, 14.9 millimeters of mercury lowering. So about 15. What if I double both medicines? So now you're taking two medicines that double the standard dose, then I'm only going to get 2.5 points additional. So you see a similar pattern here that that additional lowering is significantly mitigated as we crank up the doses. And again, side effect risks tend to go up. What if instead I put you on three different medicines at a quarter of the standard dose? So on one hand, you're like, oh my gosh, can you believe it? They're putting me on three drugs. Well, they're on a fraction of the standard dose. So you're getting a width of three different medicines. I'm already getting 11 millimeters of mercury on less than standard dosing, meaning that side effect risks are even lower. But I'm getting more effectiveness than one drug at the standard dose. And the reason why is different people's blood pressure can be elevated for different reasons. And when we use different treatment methods, different medicines, different lifestyle things, we're essentially attacking the problem of the ultimate high blood pressure from multiple different angles. So some people's blood pressure might be driven a little bit more by their obesity than by their alcohol use. If I address their obesity, then that might have a bigger impact. If I get them to lower their alcohol use, it might have a little bit lesser impact. Somebody else might be the opposite pattern. And so by addressing both of those things, I can have the biggest impact on people's blood pressure. This is a similar phenomenon. Some might be due to sodium retention. Some might be due to vascular constriction. Some might be due to other factors. And so using different medicines that work differently can tend to give us bigger bang for our buck such that we can use even lower doses than might be standard. And we see this most significantly at a quadruple therapy. So four different drugs, but at a quarter of the dose, tiny, tiny little doses can get on average 22.5 millimeters of mercury lowering, which is substantial, really substantial, right? And by using quarter doses, the risk of side effects is trivial at that level compared with using one drug at double the standard dose or two drugs at double the standard dose where that risk of side effects is necessarily going to be a bit higher. So that's the general pattern. I've had plenty of patients with difficult to control blood pressure who I've had this conversation with. And we've ended up opting based on their preferences, whether they said, I only want to take one pill, in which case I might still, there are certain combination single pill products that have two medicines in one pill. And so for them, the act of taking one pill is actually still delivering two medicines, and I might be able to get away with a little bit lower dosing. Whereas others say, I don't really care, I'm willing to take as many pills as you want, but I want to avoid any side effect possible, in which case I'm willing to give them multiple. And then we go with ultra low doses and see a more significant impact that way. Yeah, no, that's a great summary. To me, it kind of, I want to get your take on this, all right? So we know like with exercise and its effect on blood pressure, that when you look at folks with blood pressure levels greater than 140 millimeters of mercury systolic, that endurance exercise alone on average lowers that blood pressure by about eight millimeters of mercury and resistance training on its own tends to lower systolic blood pressure by about eight millimeters of mercury. But when you combine them, it's like 14 millimeters of mercury, which look, it's not purely additive. So there's some overlap like similar mechanisms, but I hadn't really put too much thought into this before. I wonder if they do attack resting blood pressure via different mechanisms, like maybe resistance training primarily focuses on like the elastin component of your arterial system. And then the cardiorespiratory fitness is more of like a vasoconstriction elsewhere or something or salt balance. I don't know, something. I'm just making stuff up at this point. But yeah, it wouldn't surprise me if they were like different mechanisms by which resting blood pressure was lowered. But when you combine the two, you get a bigger effect than either an isolation. So kind of a similar thing here maybe. Yep, totally. That's how I think about all these different lifestyle interventions. And for anyone who's interested in, you know, that was it, that was kind of a detailed explanation. Interestingly, somebody put together a cool website based on this Lancet meta analysis. They call it the blood pressure treatment efficacy calculator. And you just go to BP model dot org, BP model dot org, and you just hit start. And you can put in some numbers and based on the data from that meta analysis, it can essentially predict for you what would be on average the expected treatment effect of any some combination of this of these different treatments. What would be the expected treatment effect of replacing table salt with sodium bromide? Neuropsychiatric devastation. Just just just yeah, bromism. All right, fair enough. All right. Okay, there's also been updates to monitoring specifically with self monitored blood pressure. So taking blood pressure at home. The purpose of this like self monitored blood pressure should be to check for quote true changes in resting blood pressure that ultimately is used to guide either medication adjustments, the initiation of medications, so on and so forth. So if you frequently monitor your blood pressure at home, you know, you want to make sure that if a change is detected that it's a significant change, it's real. It's not an artifact or hallucination and that it correctly informs decision making. So, you know, there's been some update here based on new evidence that's come out. Dr. Baraki, do you want to summarize some of this new data and kind of how this shakes out with respect to clinical practice? Yeah, I came across this paper recently and it also impacted how I think about this a little bit. And to paint a broader picture here, there are a lot of things that can be tested. We've talked about this a lot before. You can test all sorts of blood tests, you can test physiologic parameters like blood pressure, you can test blood sugar. And so you can go absolutely wild with this stuff, right? The extreme example would be getting like a full set of blood tests done every day, right? There would be a lot of noise in that data, right? Your white blood cell count is going up and down hourly throughout the day. Your testosterone level going up in the morning, down into the afternoon, bottoms out in the evening and up and down again. Your cortisol going up and down, your other hormones, your creatinine, your B-Win, your potassium, all these things are changing all the time. And so the question is, what degree of data frequency do we need to make decisions that actually impact people's risk? Because I think it is tempting, especially for those who are more either just maximizers who want to do everything. But also people with medical conditions, it can get to be burdensome to be a patient. There is a phenomenon in the world of diabetes called diabetes distress, where you just are overwhelmed with the sheer burden of all the things that you need to do to manage your condition. And I see this a lot. I see patients who maybe, you know, if you're on insulin, that's necessarily a little bit of a higher risk medicine. And so that often needs blood sugar checks to manage it safely. But I also see patients with diabetes who are not on insulin, who are checking their blood sugar all the time and wanting to change all sorts of things that they do based on checking these things. We've talked about this before, the extreme example being people who don't have diabetes using continuous glucose monitors. And they see a number and they're like, whoa. Yes. And making constant decisions about it. And if, look, if that is your jam, go for it. But it is probably not necessary to achieve the health outcome that we're looking for. And it can lead to a lot of distress or, you know, anxiety. It can lead to a lot of unnecessary attention to things that could be better spent just like, you know, going about your life, maybe forming healthier relationships or doing something else with that time. And so there are people for whom I recommend, hey, we should probably check this less. We don't need to be checking your blood sugar all the time. And the same applies with blood pressure. I think this also is in part because people think that blood pressure delivers its risk on shorter time periods than it really does. So some people think my blood pressure is a little higher today. Am I at higher risk of having a stroke today? Oh, and it's a little lower tomorrow or it's higher during this time of the day, lower during this time of the day. And as we've talked about, this is a cumulative lifelong thing. So the risk of high blood pressure that I worry about is high blood pressure that is present over the course of years to decades, right? It's not that your blood pressure went up this morning and was normal tomorrow morning and was low the day after that. I'm, you know, I'll have to interpret that in a broader context because it would be a poor idea for me to be overly reactive and to change what we're doing based on every single data point. I sometimes see patients who are instructed to take their blood pressure and then only take their blood pressure medicine if their blood pressure is above a certain cutoff. And I'm like, that ain't how this works. That is inadvisable for a lot of reasons and generally is a poor idea. So the idea, you know, we've been talking in this whole episode so far about how important blood pressure is, how it's, you know, it's the leading modifiable risk factor for heart disease, you know, cardiovascular disease complications and premature death. And so you might come away from all of our conversations so far. It's like, oh my gosh, I need to be so worried about my blood pressure. I should be checking it every day or multiple times a day. More is better. And it's like, maybe, maybe not, right? It is very important as a health-related parameter, but that doesn't mean you need it to be monitored constantly, right? The analog of a continuous glucose monitor would be for you to just be like living your life with an arterial line or, you know, a constant blood pressure monitoring device, which we'll get to in a little bit with this Apple Watch and what the potential upsides and downsides of something like that would be, especially if you were paying such close attention to it, that you feel compelled to act on every deviation, right? So if it goes up a little bit, what do you do? If it goes down a little bit, what do you do? That's not really a way to live life. And so what these data that were published recently ultimately showed us just to distill a whole lot of detail down is that a lot of the time, if you're checking stuff really frequently, much of what you are catching is noise and if you space things out a little bit further, you are less likely to get caught up in all of that noise. And so you want to know what is the optimal kind of retesting interval that you should use in order to reflect a true increase or decrease or stability in your blood pressure. And so what they found was that at a six-month retesting interval, if somebody's blood pressure was elevated at that time, it only had a 25% chance of reflecting a true sustained increase in their blood pressure. At 12 months later, an elevated reading had a 65% probability of reflecting a true sustained blood pressure elevation, meaning that there was a third chance that was essentially a false positive reading. There are a couple different ways that you could take this. The first and what I want to make clear is you don't need to be monitoring your blood pressure like every day, right, or even every week. It might be useful early in the process if we're making a ton of active changes to things, but you should not be living your life constantly measuring all of these parameters. The other thing is that in my approach to this, in my practice, when I'm having somebody do ideally high-quality home blood pressure measurements using a validated device and correct technique, I'm not usually making decisions based on a single reading. What some other data has found that we cited in our Guide to High Blood Pressure is that by doing three days of readings, AM and PM, morning and evening and averaging those, that's good enough. And I'll also do that, and then it's going to be a while before I do that again, at which point I might make some modifications to the treatment plan. But we're not doing this every day or multiple times a day indefinitely. And ideally, as you get better control, whether through lifestyle, medicines, both, we can space this out more and more and more, and you can live your life and not have to be paranoid about checking this all the time, which is similar to my approach to other things, be it blood cholesterol levels, be it blood sugar levels, things like that. Yeah, I mean, this is also true of other maybe physiological parameters we see in the training space. Think about body weight or muscular strength. Imagine if every morning, without fail, you step on a scale, which I'm not saying that's a bad thing to do, but like, oh, look, if you weigh above this amount, you don't eat. Yeah, you just don't eat. But if you weigh below this, you get to eat, you know, or a, we're going to take some measure of strength every single day. And until it drops below a certain level, that's when you get to train. But if it's above a certain level, you don't need to exercise, you're good to go. It's just that these short term changes are mostly artifacts of like this normal human variability and like an ebb and flow back and forth. And so you want to make sure that whatever management decisions you're making, in this case, blood pressure, in other cases, body weight, strength, programming, blood cholesterol levels, that you're capturing a real change and one that needs to be acted upon. You can use averages over longer periods of time. So if you do the more frequent measuring, that's okay. But micromanaging it on a day to day basis for most of these variables is probably not the move. Is that fair to say? Yeah, I think that, you know, as somebody myself who has never been somebody who's willing to like weigh, track, or measure macros in my own life, I do my own like auto regulatory strategy tends to be relatively frequent body weights. However, I recognize that there is a range of just noise in that number. And I'm not acting differently based on those every single day. But rather it is there to kind of detect trends and impact things that way. And so if over the course of days to weeks, I was noticing that things were going down and down and down or up and up and up compared with where I wanted to be, then over time that would impact kind of behavior on average. But this is not something where it's like, oh, my weight is up 0.5 kilos today. I'm going to, you know, adjust my daily intake down by this much or up. And then at the same time, if the number was way different than the day before, then I'm going to say, oh, that's probably a false positive, something's wrong with the scale. So it's almost recognizing that there's a range of plausible, you know, outcomes day to day of noise. And outside of that, it's more likely fake than it is real. And I'm not really acting or doing anything differently until I see a sustained trend outside of where I want to be that prompts action. And so that would be a similar approach here. Yeah, quick question. Just to see if you got this in the dome. On average, what is the heaviest human body weight in a given week for most individuals? What day? Sunday morning. Yeah, exactly. Sundays and Mondays and least on Fridays. The range is typically on the order of a few pounds or so about one to 2% of someone's weight, but this can vary by season, holidays, and more. But yeah, there's like a general rhythm and some of that's due to dietary pattern changes. But yeah, things can change significantly as far as like what the scale is able to pick up. But yeah, I thought that was interesting. Okay, let's get into this. Let's get into the final and perhaps maybe most impactful update that people, yeah, yeah, might be coming across might be hearing about. Apple just came out with this new hypertension detection feature for the Apple Watch. Now, as you mentioned early, nearly half of adults in the United States have a diagnosis of elevated blood pressure or hypertension. There's another proportion of individuals who do currently have elevated blood pressure or hypertension who have not yet been diagnosed. And so I don't care to speculate on how many folks are out there, but it's a lot. Yeah, millions of people. And even those who do have high blood pressure, they might not be adequately managed. So this watch and this tool theoretically could be beneficial if it's accurate, meaning is it actually picking up people with elevated blood pressure or hypertension, not giving you a bunch of false positives. So you reviewed this data, we link to the Apple's supplied PDF that has a bunch of their findings. What's your take on how good of a job does the Apple Watch actually do at identifying folks with elevated blood pressure? I would say it's medium. And there's a lot of caveats to this. I'm actually, I have it fully made up my mind on this, but we'll just present the data and maybe we'll come to some degree of consensus here. So yeah, Apple released a PDF that included their data on this that reported overall sensitivity, meaning what proportion of people is it correctly catching with this condition? Overall about 41% of people, meaning that as a screening tool on its own, not awesome. Meaning it's missing a lot of people. So an ideal screening tool would have very, very high sensitivity. It would be very sensitive to detect those with high blood pressure.  at the risk of catching a lot of false positives. And so then typically in most traditional screening practices in medicine, we use an initial high sensitivity tool that catches everyone with it, plus a bunch of false positives. And then in the subsequent step of evaluation, we use a test that is much more specific, and that more specific test will then tell us it'll weed out those who are false positives and leave us with the population who truly have the condition. Based on various variables to include the overall prevalence of this condition in the population, as well as how sensitive this test is, and the other parameter of how specific it is, where it correctly rules out those who don't have high blood pressure, we can get a sense of how well this test performs. So I mentioned that overall sensitivity is about 41%. So about 60 out of every 100 people who have high blood pressure are not, sorry, of all comers who are wearing the watch are not being caught. Now, among those who have higher and higher blood pressure, so those with stage two hypertension, that's the highest kind of cutoff, the sensitivity is better, which you would expect to find. So 53, almost 54% sensitivity in that population. So the higher people's blood pressure gets, the better this test gets at detecting it, which is not terribly surprising. Yeah, but also not great either. You're like, this is the highest cohort, my highest blood pressure measurement. You would expect that sensitivity if the detection software or whatever was very, very good. You would expect that number to be in the 90s. It's like if you set the BMI cutoff right now, the cut point we have for obesity is 30, right? And unfortunately, we miss about half of folks who are carrying too much body fat with that cut point. It's just not low enough to capture individuals who are carrying too much body fat, but don't have a BMI level high enough. So you would set it to like 22. Well, now the sensitivity is 100%, but the amount of false positives that you're getting are substantially increased. It makes for a better quote, screening tool, but then a bunch of folks are like, what do you say? Do you imagine the internet would actually explode? They're like, yeah, you're saying that I'm obese? It's like, well, no, we're just trying to improve the sensitivity of this test, but the specificity would be lower. Yeah, so I mean, for this test, the sensitivity of it is not off. We're missing a bunch of people, but what's the other side of that coin is that what we'll call the specificity, correctly ruling out those who don't have high blood pressure is much better. And you can see that from Apple's perspective, if they took a lot of, you know, doctor's advice to heart and said, we want to limit false positives to reduce unnecessary worry, which is what they describe in their paper, then this is a way to do that. If you don't have a quote unquote gold standard test that has really, really good sensitivity and really, really high specificity, because those combination is rare in diagnostic medicine. And so if they opted for something with, you know, more specificity, then you're not going to freak as many people out because you're not going to have as many false positives, but that comes at the risk of more false negatives, people who are not caught with this. Ultimately, this trend of wearables is a complex space. The Apple watches have long had the ability now to detect things like atrial fibrillation, and that's an abnormal heart rhythm that can lead to consequences, but it has left a lot of doctors in a bind with what do I do with this information when an Apple watch tells me that this patient has had atrial fibrillation, because all of the evidence that we have on how to treat atrial fibrillation comes from an era when we diagnosed atrial fibrillation differently. And so they're just different populations of people who come in, for example, with symptoms of their heart racing beating out of their chest with atrial fibrillation. That's a fundamentally different person than somebody who says, oh, my Apple watch told me I had like 15 seconds of AFib and I didn't feel anything. So we don't have good evidence on that population of should we manage it the same? Do we not? And so I think similarly, if we're going to have a new tool like this, ideally it is a bit better in terms of its accuracy, but also what do we do with this and where we'd have to probably confirm and validate those findings using more traditional blood pressure measurement methods, because that's the evidence base on which our treatment kind of recommendations come from. And so to give people an idea, because we gave a lot of biostatistical numbers, which even makes medical trainees and other physicians eyes glaze over, given that about half the population has high blood pressure, to put these numbers into some real life values, if we test, put Apple watches on 100 people, 20 of them will test positive and have high blood pressure. Nine of them will be false positives. 27 people with high blood pressure will be missed and 44 out of the 100 will be true negatives, meaning they don't have high blood pressure and it will not advise them that they have high blood pressure. So 20 correctly diagnosed with it, 44 correctly diagnosed without it, nine false positives and 27 false negatives. So do with that what you will in terms of deciding, do you like this tool of the Apple watch for blood pressure detection or not? As a clinician, it's not going to be my favorite thing and regardless if I have a patient who tells me that my Apple watch is telling me that I have high blood pressure, I've never had a high blood pressure measurement before, I've never been told I had hypertension, we're going to go through some additional steps to confirm it. I'm not going to jump to immediate treatment based on Apple watch data alone. If this ends up getting more people who have high blood pressure and didn't know it, diagnosed and treated, then maybe this ends up being a net benefit, but it is insufficient on its own for this. In other words, people should still be I think checking their blood pressure on the recommended intervals in other ways in case they are among that 27 out of 100 who might get missed if all they're relying on is just, my watch will tell me if it's a problem. Yeah, I think the best use case I see for this, which is maybe a little interesting from like a social dynamics perspective, is like if you happen to have an Apple watch, but you for whatever reason don't have a primary care physician, you don't interface with your primary care physician and it does happen to detect that you have elevated blood pressure. That's probably a net benefit if it triggers a behavior to go see a doctor for an assessment. I don't know that this replaces like regular blood pressure screening nor should it, but I don't think it's aimed towards that. It's more like a if you happen to be between your intervals of like regular seeing a physician, especially maybe if you're younger, you don't routinely interface with a physician, maybe that's the best use case here. But otherwise, I don't think it replaces either self-monitoring via more validated methods or in-office measurement with your physician. Does that seem fair? Yeah, I think that's fair. All right, well look, I can't say that this is going to be our last blood pressure podcast because that seems unlikely. As stuff continues to change, we'll continue to update you. That's one of the things we like to do here at Barbell Medicine, but we appreciate your attention to listening to our podcast. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Hossa Baraki for joining us. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Nordic Hamstring Curl [FkME2m8rIEk].txt ===

Rub grab throw

=== FILE: Not Losing Weight In A Calorie Deficit, What Do？ [MYU2KfmS9Pg].txt ===

Music Music New client reports eating below their total daily energy expenditure, but isn't losing weight, what do? I imagine we can't instantly correct under reporting. Specifically, do you still prescribe an amount of calories that should result in weight loss per the NIH, if they report a total daily energy intake lower than the prescription? So basically, somebody say, I'm eating these calories, but I'm not losing weight, what do? So just like I was talking about in the nutrition lecture yesterday, if the first you check the adherence, right? So it's like, hey, look, are you sticking to this plan? And they say yes. And you're like, okay, cool. And you're taking them at their word, and they're not losing weight at that calorie level, I would reduce calories, and a story. If you do that again, and they're still not losing weight, I kind of go through the same process again. We've just reduced another 250 to 500 calories. They're reporting being buried adherent, and still not losing weight. At that point, when I check for adherence, so let's say two weeks have gone by, they still have a loss weight. Ask them, hey, how's your adherence been? Any issues? We talk about it. I usually ask for proof, not in a way like I'm being an investigator here or interrogating them, but I want to see like there. My fitness path log or however they're tracking their food or something like that, just to kind of make sure that they're counting things correctly. Maybe there's not some sort of error. I also check for things that people don't tend to count certain condiments, sugar sweeten beverages, alcohol, stuff like that. Issues think that people have trouble logging. They're like, yeah, I don't log any of my coaxes because it's liquid. So you'd be surprised. And IMean, you know, this obviously happened sometimes otherwise I wouldn't have the story, but that alcohol and condiments tend to be like the three biggest offenders there for things that people don't track and then snacks. Like, you know, are you snacking on stuff in between meals? And you know, again, this is all in the context of somebody who's trying to lose weight and we've just lowered calories and still doesn't work. And so if nothing appears odd there, then I lower calories again. I'm not averse to continue to lower calories unless I suspect there's this really big adherence issue, you know. Now, obviously we had a client for a while who was, you know, over 200 pounds and then was reporting not losing weight at 1200 calories, but reported 7 out of 7. Every day she was very adherent. And I was like, well, let me see, I'd love to see the my fitness pal reports. I was like, oh, yeah, they're on my phone. I don't know how to get them to you. And I was like, well, you know, you just take them screenshots and just let them see them see what you're eating. It's like, it seems like a long process. Like, I don't know that I can get them to you. There was some resistance. And I got it. And so the whole thing wasn't to be like, gotcha ha ha ha. You know, there's the issue. The thing was like, well, let's address the actual problem. Right. What are the, you know, what sort of barriers do we have to adherence? And we had an even barrier to admitting there was a problem with adherence. So again, the thing isn't gotcha. The thing is, all right, we have an issue here. What's, how do we address the communication thing first and then figure out strategies to overcome the adherence issue? So that's how I address the issue and just some common things that I've seen over time. Austin, you have anything to add? I don't have anything to add to that. All right. Thank you.

=== FILE: Ozempic & Alcohol, The Trap Bar Myth, and A Medical Mystery ｜ Barbell Medicine AMA Teaser [YklGFzDdirY].txt ===

 cschltltsch. cschltsch. cschltsch. cschltsch. cschltsch. cschltsch. cschltsch. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24-7 access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow-ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments, and shipping is always free. With Dutch, you'll get more time with your pets and year-round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just $92 a year. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Today, we're going to give you a look inside our Direct Line series. This is a monthly subscriber-only AMA where Dr. Austin Baraki and I answer the most uncomfortable, complex, and sometimes strange questions that we get from our community. We're going to cover a lot of ground today, from a medical mystery involving a fit marine and a life-threatening run, to the ethics of prescribing ozempic to people who might be drinking too much alcohol, and why your favorite gym debate about the trap bar versus the regular barbell deadlift is mostly a waste of breath. If you enjoy this deep dive and you want to join the queue for our next AMA, head over to the link in the description to subscribe to our Plus feed. All right, let's dig in. This is going to be interesting to you. I can feel it. The question is, is it normal for my legs to get itchy when starting to run? What do you think about that? If we frame this as a mystery case, I would start to have a lot of follow-up questions, but I do think that there's this phenomenon known as quote-unquote runner's itch that is probably what this person's getting at. Again, there are some other possibilities that we can get to in a little bit, but the thought has to do with changes in basically blood flow. So the way capillaries deliver blood throughout our bodies when we start exercising, our peripheral vasculature tends to vasodilate to deliver oxygenated blood to our tissues, and there's a bunch of different changes that happen in the cardiovascular system. And so the thinking is that these changes in what we call hemodynamics, the changes in the vascular system, our heart rate, our blood flow, our blood pressure, especially when somebody is not habitually adapted to this, might lead to kind of mechanical stimulation in the local tissues, like in the skin and things like that, that can be experienced as a sensation of itch. There are some other mechanisms of itch. And so just broadly speaking, again, if this were a mystery case, I would actually start by thinking about the different types of mechanisms of itch. There's neurologically mediated itch. There's itch that's mediated by histamine release. There can be itch mediated by other things. For example, I see patients get itchy when they have a lot of bilirubin, and they're like jaundiced and turning yellow when they have elevated blood urea levels, things like that. So there's a lengthy list of substances and mechanisms by which people can itch. So I've talked about cardiovascular, neurological. Histamine is another one that you might think of as being kind of associated with allergies, but that's also involved in this kind of like blood flow regulation, vascular regulation. That's why, for example, when people are having an allergic reaction, you might see them develop what are called like wheels on the skin or what we call urticaria as the medical term. There's kind of like raised light red to pink area. A lot of that tends to be histamine related as blood flow increases to an area, and then it kind of leaks out into the tissues, leading to a little bit of swelling. And it makes the nerve endings in the area a bit more sensitive. And again, the sensitivity of nerve endings can play into the experience of something like itch. Again, I mentioned neurologic. There's this phenomenon called cholinergic urticaria. And there's also other forms as well. If you just look up exercise-induced urticaria that people can experience or when they sweat, that can also trigger some of these kind of itching responses, again, also impacted by environmental conditions. I experienced this briefly during a time in my swimming career, and I suspect it was multifactorial, some combination of like sweat and like chlorine exposure and maybe something else about the environment that I was in at the time. It wasn't something that I experienced indefinitely or always or reliably, but I distinctly remember a period of time where I would get kind of red and splotchy on my skin and itchy, and that might have been due to some exposure in that context. So I've experienced it, but what about you? Yeah, I have not, at least not to my conscious knowledge. Sure. Perhaps I just attribute it to something else. But you mentioned it perfectly. A handful of mechanisms likely involved in this runner's itch, the vasodilation, right? Some histamine release that is normal with particularly exercise can sensitize skin nerve endings, and so people can feel an itch, and that obviously varies between individuals. It typically goes away in a few weeks. And then that cholinergic urticaria is far less common, but pretty interesting. All of those are relatively benign. However, things can get weird when it comes to itching during exercise. So, Dr. Baraki, imagine this. 24-year-old, fit marine. He went for a run. He got itchy. And then he got hives. And his blood pressure dropped to 60 over barely palpable. He didn't know that. He didn't have like a blood pressure cuff on him, but he did become lightheaded, thought he was going to pass out. So he sat down to rest for several minutes. And when he attempted to stand, he became even more lightheaded and felt like he was going to black out. So he called 911 and went to the emergency room. Now, he was subsequently diagnosed with exercise-induced anaphylaxis, which is a rare, life-threatening syndrome where the immune system reacts to physical exertion, often combined with food triggers like wheat, shellfish, et cetera, but not in this specific case. Now, the lesson here is that there's a difference between this case and normal like itchy legs or runner's itch. It's the progression and the symptoms. He didn't just itch. He developed hives and hemodynamic instability, dizziness, low blood pressure. So this case highlights the critical difference between itchy skin or runner's itch and exercise-induced anaphylaxis. Pretty interesting case. Now, we can't use that for an upcoming mystery case now because I gave you the answer. Yeah, I've actually heard of one, a mystery case that I listened to somebody else discuss. I have heard of this once before. It was in the context of some wheat exposure and then subsequent exercise. And, yeah, this is a classic story for anaphylaxis, the skin itching, you know, potentially a rash, and then you combine it with some other form, other systems that get involved, either respiratory, people start wheezing, their gastrointestinal system, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or cardiovascular complications like low blood pressure. Some combination of those are kind of part of the diagnostic criteria for anaphylaxis. This person gets an epinephrine, and then you probably have to get assessed by an allergist, immunologist, to figure out, like, because I don't actually know, aside from avoidance, if there's any sort of treatment for this that can mitigate it, if they use some kind of, you know, mast cell stabilizer or something like that. Because it would be nice so that you don't have to, like, you know, worry about if I exert myself, am I going to anaphylaxis and die and have to EpiPen myself? Bring an EpiPen. Movies like in Crank, that old movie or something like that. But, yeah, interesting and unfortunate condition to have. Yeah, so to summarize, normal runner's itch, you just get itching on the legs and thighs, no visible rash. You feel fine. You're just annoyed because you're itchy. Yeah, capillary wake-up call. It should resolve in a couple weeks with consistent training. Keep training. It'll typically resolve. That's different than cholinergic urticaria. So you've got the itching and the pinpoint hives or wheels, a little red halo kind of thing. Usually heat, sweat related. So usually when folks cool down, potentially it can be mitigated with some antihistamines. Although we would want to refer to some clinical expertise for that because just generally take it like a Benadryl before you go exercise. Probably not the move. And then that's all different than exercise-induced anaphylaxis, which was the case report we talked about, which is itching and large hives plus dizziness, wheezing, nausea, you know, other sort of hemodynamic instability type symptoms. So I would recommend stopping. Immediately activate emergency medical services. You need to be seen by a professional. Alcohol use and GLP-1 receptor agonists. So the question is, how do you view heavy alcohol use alongside GLP-1 medications? Is this cognitive dissonance? Whereas someone could be on this medication for treating obesity, for example, while still continuing to drink alcohol. To me, treating the obesity with GLP-1 receptor agonists immediately can improve things like metabolic health, liver function, cardiovascular risk profile. And a patient with treated obesity and excessive alcohol intake is objectively better than a patient with excessive alcohol intake plus untreated obesity. So I think, you know, these things don't have to be like linked together. There's like a little false dichotomy there. And also I should point out like the original question suggested maybe like a substance use disorder thing, whereas excessive alcohol intake is not necessarily substance use disorder. There's specific DSM-5 criteria for substance use disorder. It does get gray there, but I just wanted to clarify. It doesn't automatically mean pathology. Even though it might not be health promoting, it might not be an actual pathology. So we don't need to medicalize that. But overall, I kind of think the aggregate health risk is lower, even if the alcohol variable remains constant. Although the evidence suggests, and I suspect you'll get into it, it often improves GLP-1 receptor agonists often seem to improve excessive alcohol intake and maybe even some indication for substance use disorder. But to tie it all together, you know, we don't tell a speeding driver to take off their seatbelt because they don't deserve safety until they stop speeding. We use the seatbelt to keep them alive while we address the speed or the other driving habits. The last part of this before I get into Dr. Baraki's take, it's just like this perfect patient idea, you know, like the patient has to be perfect in order for us to treat them. So like we don't withhold statins from people who eat fast food. We don't withhold metabolic treatment for those who drink in this particular case. This reminds me of the Diary of a CEO kind of review podcast we just did with Dr. Lauren Colenzo Semple, where they're like, we're going to take people off GLP-1s if they're not exercising. It's like, well, look, we want people to exercise. We know that exercise, even if you're not on these medications, very health promoting, even independent of any change to your weight. But if somebody doesn't, the idea that they're going to be less healthy without these medications and they're not exercising still, that's unlikely. So, Austin, you want to talk about some of these like additional effects, like health benefits that people get from GLP-1s and also just how you think about this overall? Yeah, I kind of wish, you know, the initial take from the question had me kind of curious as to what exactly the question asker here meant. I wish they would have elaborated a little bit more on their on their thought process. But I think I can follow follow your lead here. But but yeah, so GLP-1 agonists and the multi agonists that we have nowadays that are hitting more and more receptors. They aren't drugs that just work via that single hormone, like in the stomach, for example, like, you know, early on, a lot of people and some people still hold these thoughts of, oh, it just slows down your stomach. It makes you feel really sick. And that's why you lose weight. That is definitively not the case for these for these medications at this point. There can be a bit of an early effect with some GI side effects. Those tend to improve with time and those are not reliably predictive of people's weight and health related outcomes. So it is not nearly that that simple. And additionally, by working what we call centrally or in the brain, we also observe these impacts on appetite reward pathways that it seems to be extending with early evidence into people's use of alcohol. Now I have a pretty large, I would say, base of experience working with patients on these medicines over the years and have observed this in my own practice with them, as well as with some emerging evidence that alcohol use and other substance use disorders actually tend to improve. People tend to spontaneously consume less in the same way that they tend to spontaneously consume fewer calories and lose weight, which is, you know, the main mechanism of benefit for weight loss and a lot of the cardiometabolic downstream consequences. Similarly, they tend to spontaneously end up seeking out and consuming less alcohol. But getting back to this original question, if the idea is I have a patient who tends to drink alcohol, maybe above recommended limits, and they're on this medicine and they continue to do so, you know, this question of is it cognitive dissonance? Like, should we take the medicine away from them, quote unquote, or decline to prescribe it because they are drinking? And this is a deeply, I would say, problematic, very paternalistic approach to clinical medicine. And I think there's some degree of like baked in moralization just around the alcohol itself, but also the medicines. And so I've talked about this a bunch before where a lot of these sorts of interventions that we have available in practice, I wish that we could propose them in a completely like decontextualized, almost like a like a Mad Lib type way where it's like, here is the intervention that you have available just in terms of outcomes. It offers this percent benefit on weight, it delivers this percent benefit on risk of mortality, it provides this degree of benefit on liver fat accumulation and cirrhosis. And here are the potential risks or the downsides in contrast, this like minuscule risk of this, tiny risk of this, tiny risk of this. How do you feel about this intervention without knowing what it is or anything else about it? And most people would look at these data and be like, oh, yeah, that seems like a no brainer to do something like that. And then you can like, you know, open door number one and reveal to them what that intervention is. And if it turns out to be a GLP-1 agonist, everybody starts losing their minds because they're like, you know, it's cheating. It's this or that, the other thing. If the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks, then I think that that is a valid basis on which to use these tools. We view them as amoral tools that we have available to us. And then even if there are some potential risks, if the patient goes through a fully, you know, full conversation and you can you get them as informed as they can be. And they say, look, I accept that risk in order to gain those potential benefits that I'm still willing to pursue it. And so this comes up because I do now a decent amount of like menopausal hormone therapy, for example. And so this came up recently where I had a woman who was dealing with pretty significant perimenopausal slash postmenopausal symptoms. And she, for her own personal reasons, was declining to get mammographic screening for breast cancer. And yet she was stating a clear preference to have her menopausal symptoms treated. Now, I think in the past and even in the present, many people would say, oh, you're unwilling to get screened for breast cancer. I'm never, ever going to give you any kind of hormone therapy to address your symptoms. But if the person if you walk through this with them and you understand, try to understand where they're coming from, what risks they're willing to accept. Maybe they're reasoning for declining, that kind of thing. It might be the case that, hey, I'm willing to prescribe it to you because we've had this whole conversation. And you understand this potential risk in order to gain this potential benefit. And it's not my job to withhold this from you. Now, if alternatively, the intervention is clearly more harmful than it is potentially beneficial, then things get a little bit more tricky. But that clearly, to date, based on the available evidence, is not the case for GLP-1 receptor agonists, whether the person drinks too much, whether they are not eating the preferred dietary pattern that we might recommend. And even in some cases, if they're not exercising in the exact ways that we might recommend. Now, there is a certain limit where, OK, this person's BMI is like, you know, 20 or something. It's cracking, 19, they're getting cachectic, frail. It's like, yeah, the medicine probably should have been stopped a while ago or they should have been advised to stop the medicine a while ago. Maybe because now you're starting to reach a point where, OK, we're starting to go up on the other side of that U-shaped mortality curve as your BMI gets too low. And I'm like actually concerned that I'm harming you more than I'm helping you. And so that's why there's a conversation to be had with people. But I really shy away from this, like, aggressive paternalistic style of care, but rather try to make as many decisions jointly as possible with people and not really moralizing any of this. If the intervention has the potential to benefit, here it is, you know, and then we can work through it together. Yeah, shared shared decision making is the is the key phrase here. You know, I think there's another way to look at this question and perhaps the the question askers original intent was with cognitive dissonance from like maybe the patient standpoint, whereas they're, you know, taking this personal responsibility to seek out treatment for presumably obesity, but not doing that for what the question asker views as excessive alcohol intake. And, you know, is that cognitive dissonance at the level of the patient? And it's like, well, not really. You know, you don't have to check all of the boxes for health promotion to make a healthy, you know, choice. It's like a person who starts exercise but doesn't necessarily change their dietary pattern or vice versa. And it's like, look, there are so many ways that we can influence health and performance and all these things. You don't have to do all of them, you know, to do one of them. That's kind of like this perfectionist idea. So I don't know. I agree that from the physician patient, that sort of thing, you summarize that perfectly. Just, you know, when it comes down to the individual level, behavior changes is challenging. And like you can pick a single target for behavior change or multiple targets. And that's really up to the individual and the sort of bandwidth they have to do that. Does that square with your understanding? Yeah, I agree. You can have you can be, you know, in a different stage of behavior change for all sorts of different potential outcomes. And maybe with the GLP-1 use, if somebody does, you know, drink above recommended limits, that'll start to improve. And maybe they get super motivated based on that early progress that they didn't even mean to get. And it leads to a snowballing effect. Or maybe they say, you know, it's helping, but I want to get more. And then maybe then they start to open up the conversation with pursuing some other form of, you know, clinical care for that use of naltrexone, other sorts of medical therapies, psychotherapies, things like that. But, you know, I think that getting the ball rolling in a positive direction with the meds here is would be my intent in this type of situation and not, you know, withholding it for that kind of a reason. Yeah. It's like a backdoor treatment almost to like open up the conversation or other options for managing. Again, if there is excessive alcohol intake and a person doesn't want to change that. Yeah. It's that's a bridge that you're creating there. But if you want to go deeper on this, we did just drop a podcast, GLP One Update with Dr. Nidolsky and Dr. Baraki. It's also on our YouTube channel if you prefer to watch rather than listen. And a bunch of references also in the show notes there. I've linked that in the description here. You know, the hardest part of training isn't doing all of the workout. It's the 30 minute argument I have with myself afterward about what I'm going to eat. I'm thinking must consume protein and carbs, but also must not spend an hour cooking a massive meal, especially this time of year. Holiday season is crazy. A lot of dinner engagements, a lot of travel, a lot of having friends over. Finding the time to cook something actually good can feel like an extra workout. That's why I love Factor. Their chef prepped, dietician approved meals are basically cheat code for a busy, goal oriented life. You peel back the film, you heat it up, and you're eating something comforting and delicious that actually helps you stay on track, not derail you. And they keep getting better. First, the variety is ridiculous. I'm talking premium seafood choices like salmon and shrimp at no extra cost. Second, they're dialing in the nutrition goals that you care about. If you're tracking macros, you can hit those GLP One friendly goals. Or if you're wanting a new Mediterranean diet option packed with protein and healthy fats, Factor has your back. Look, 97% of customers say that Factor helped them live a healthier life. And that's a stat I can trust. I use this myself and frankly, I wish I'd start using it sooner. It saves me a lot of time and a lot of money from eating out so much. If you're ready to save time and eat smart, go to factormeals.com slash BBM50off and use code BBM50off to get 50% off your first box plus free breakfast for one year. That's code BBM50off at factormeals.com for 50% off your first box plus free breakfast for a year. Get delicious, ready to eat meals delivered with Factor. This offer is only valid for new Factor customers with code and qualifying auto-renewing subscription. You know, whether we're talking about training, nutrition, or anything else, we take our recommendations very seriously here at Barbo Medicine. If we're talking about something, it's because there's solid evidence, sound reasoning, and personal experience behind it. No hype, just the good stuff. And Figs is no different. For those of us in the healthcare field, Figs makes scrubs and medical apparel that are actually designed for the work that we do. I mean, they're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough to stand up to those ridiculously long shifts and endless cycles in the washing machine. Plus, they're antimicrobial, which is always a bonus when you're working in a clinical setting. But honestly, the best part is that they fit really well. Seriously, no more boxy, scratchy, uncomfortable scrubs that feel like they belong in 1985. Figs completely rethought the design with better tailoring and a massive selection of styles and colors to choose from. And it's not just the scrubs. They've gone and teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers, they make compression socks for those long days when you're on your feet, and they have great outerwear for when the hospital AC is on full blast and it feels like an icebox. And with the holidays right around the corner, it's the perfect time to treat yourself to some fresh looks for the new year. And that's awesome because Figs just dropped a ton of new, limited edition colors and styles for the season. So if you're working in healthcare, or if you want to shop for a loved one who is, Figs is offering 15% off your first purchase at wearfigs.com with the code FIGSRX. That's wearfigs.com, code FIGSRX. Weight Watchers now offers access to affordable GLP-1s. Weight Watchers has everything I need, from weight loss medications to nutrition support and help with my side effects. With our program, our members are losing more weight. With expert nutrition and side effects support. Weight Watchers prescribing GLP-1 medications, it's been life-changing. Better results. Expert support. Lose more weight. Make it last. Get started today for as low as $25 at WeightWatchers.com. Hey guys, a quick heads up before the year is over. If you've got unused HSA or FSA funds, don't let them go to waste. You can use them towards Barbell Medicine coaching, consultations, programs, supplements. They're all eligible under these accounts. It's totally legit, by the way. Your accountant will approve, and your future self will thank you. Your quads will maybe not right away. Jokes aside, it's a smart way to invest in your long-term health and performance, instead of rushing to stock up on random medical supplies that you'll never use. Before the year ends, head to BarbellMedicine.com, choose your plan, and at checkout, select FlexPay with HSA FSA. Because those dollars were meant to make you healthier, and that's exactly what we do. Barbell Medicine, evidence-based training that pays off, literally. Time is precious, and so are our pets. So time with our pets is extra precious. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24-7 access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow-ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments, and shipping is always free. With Dutch, you'll get more time with your pets and year-round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just $92 a year. All right, on to the next question. We're talking about training now. This is basically a religious war. All right. Am I missing critical gains by using the trap bar to save my lower back? Does the handle height matter? So this is about the debate between a trap bar and a straight bar deadlift. All right. Now, to me, people argue about this like it is a religious war, like it's a theological discussion. But physiologically, it's like arguing Coke versus Pepsi. You know, when you look at biomechanical studies comparing the two lifts, sure, there are distinct differences about where the training load goes, where the muscular tension is created. So for a straight bar deadlift, particularly conventional, that's been the comparator. Bars in front of the legs, there tends to be a longer moment arm, the distance between the center of the barbell to the hip and back. So you get more hamstring and more erector sort of loading. The same weight is distributed differently. More on the hamstrings and the erectors. For the trap bar, this tends to be a little bit closer to the ankles. The center of mass does. So you have a more upright torso. So you get a little more quadriceps involvement and more glutes, less lower back. The result is just that the training load is distributed differently. You're not really missing any, quote, gains that are generally applied. They just tend to get a little bit more training load on the quadriceps and glutes versus the glutes and the hamstrings and the erectors. It's just slightly different. And to be clear, all of the studies to date on this are focused on EMGs, EMG data, which is just a study of electrical activity at the levels of the muscle. We don't have like longitudinal outcomes like group one did trap bar deadlifts. Group two did straight, you know, conventional deadlifts. At the end, we tested their leg press one rep max or their erector hypertrophy or their hamstrings hypertrophy. If we had that data, we could say with confidence, like, here, look, these are the differences in training outcomes that you can expect if you fit into that population that was studied. But so far, it's just EMG stuff. And EMG data to date does not really correlate well with those outcomes. It's a signal on some level. Like if somebody did a lift and there was, you know, 90 percent voluntary activation of a particular muscle group versus another exercise that had zero percent, you know, activation of a particular muscle or muscle group. Well, sure. At that point, you're like, yeah, my brain still works. I have more than one synapse that functions. You're going to get more gains out of the first exercise where the muscle or muscle group of interest is actually being, you know, electrically active. But other than that, when someone's like, well, this is 60 percent versus 50 percent, I'm like, dude, I don't care. To date, that's just we have a lot of EMG data out there. It just is not really instructive as far as what you should prescribe. Overall, I would predict similar strength gains in unrelated low skill strength tests, whether that's a leg press, whether it's an isometric leg extension or leg curl, something like that. But yeah, at the end of, you know, 12 weeks of trap bar deadlifts versus conventional deadlifts with a straight bar, the biggest differences I would predict are the performance in those individual exercises, but not really outside of that. And then further, I would like to explicitly reject the idea that conventional or straight bar deadlifts are more dangerous or risky on the lower back compared to the trap bar deadlift. Instead, I think that both are safe when loaded appropriately. Just between the two, the training load is distributed slightly differently, though to what degree and like that that matters depends on what outcomes are being tested and how. You know, you can't say that a regular straight bar deadlift makes you stronger than a trap bar deadlift. It's like, well, in what specific context or a conventional deadlift drives more hypertrophy than the trap bar deadlifts like, well, what specific muscle group and then where's the proof? Because to date, that doesn't really exist. So I could not say that confidently. Austin, what do you think about this trap bar deadlift or straight bar deadlift debate? Is it missing? Is the trap bar deadlift missing anything compared to just a regular straight, you know, conventional deadlift? Or is there ever a time that you would specifically prefer a trap bar deadlift over a conventional deadlift? Yeah, I mean, there are, to your point, slightly different exercises that distribute loads slightly differently. And that leads to the expected slight differences in the adaptations that you get as a result. I just generally struggle to care about this in general. I think that if the person asking this question, or if you're trying to answer this question for yourself, like, do I have a non-negotiable reason that I must conventional deadlift from the floor? Like I'm entering a barbell strength related competition where that is the, you know, the task that I must complete. If that is not the case, as we've talked about before, you have every possible exercise in the world at your, you know, that you can, that you can use to facilitate your, your training towards whatever desired outcomes and goals are, are important to you. And so if somebody is not a competitor in a sport that requires it, then it's like, okay, is this just for health? Then I extra don't care about the difference between the two. Because, you know, if you, if you told me, hey, I'm going to have somebody who starts training at pick your age and then a decade, two decades, three decades, however many years later, between trap bar and conventional deadlift, and then I'm going to measure their resting blood pressure or their hemoglobin A1c or their blood lipids, would I expect to see a difference? Obviously, no, I wouldn't. Might there end up being over a long enough timeframe, some differences in their abilities? If you were to focus, do a focused analysis of their like hamstring versus quadriceps hypertrophy, maybe a little bit if that's all they did, right? But at the same time, it's like you're also doing other exercises that probably make some of that come out in the wash, right? Or their strength on a hamstring focused task versus a quadriceps, again, maybe slightly, but you're not only doing trap bar and conventional and leaving the gym. At least I don't think you are, right? You're probably also doing maybe some squatting. Maybe you enjoy doing some, I don't know, good mornings, or you do, you know, some machine work or something else that probably also serves to close that gap even further. So my answer is no, I don't think you're missing any critical gains by doing one over the other, unless, again, you're a competitor in a sport that requires it. Handle height similarly just makes it a different exercise. A trap bar with low handles is slightly different than a trap bar with high handles. It leads to slightly different adaptations. It's probably some slight differences in, you know, strength performance through that range of motion in your training, some slight differences in hypertrophy. Again, if that is the only exercise that you're doing and you're not kind of sure.  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo the trap bars remain movement, that's great. But maybe we can either, you know, just sprinkle in a little bit of some conventional deadlifting, even if it's load capped at a super low load, just to expose you to that so that you can maybe start to, you know, address some of that fear around that. Or maybe we just start out, if that's too concerning to you, of just a conventional RDL or something like that to mimic it and move in that way. If on the other hand, you say, look, I've been doing this for years. Every time I train conventional deadlifts, it goes great early on as I build up my strength, the weights go up, and then eventually I inevitably end up having a significant setback. And when I train trap bar instead, I never have a setback. It's like, okay, you know, I would be perfectly accepting of that explanation, even though there's probably some things that we might still be able to modify, you know, with your programming as it related to, but for some people, it's just like, I don't actually care that much. It's not worth it to me to go through all this, you know, you know, nitpicking of my program to make me tolerate an exercise that isn't that important to me that I'm not missing out on a ton of by doing other things. And that I've experienced so many setbacks on over the years. So this is kind of like that last question of like a give and take in this conversation. So that's what I mean is I wouldn't say that a trap bar necessarily saves, quote unquote, your lower back or is safer for your lower back compared to conventional deadlifting, assuming it's, again, reasonably programmed, but different people tolerate different exercises differently, right? And there's some things that are just don't feel good to some people for, you know, even for between you and I, I know that there's some movements that you like that I don't and vice versa. And that's just, that's okay. You know, as, as part of a more comprehensive training program, the gaps are all shored up one way or another, even if we go about the tiny details of exercise selection somewhat differently. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of view this. It's like a, when it comes to exercise selection, it's like a buffet, you know, like you're, you're at old country buffet and like, you're going to pick different foods than I am. But at the end of the day, we're still like, all right, we want to make sure we get our protein. We want to make sure we get some, you know, carbohydrates want to make sure we get a decent fat source and maybe dessert. And it's like, you know, the way we go about it, you know, that's your squat pattern, your hinge pattern, your press pattern, your pull pattern. We're going to get exposed to all of those things, but the specifics are mostly personal preference, especially when it comes to health. And, and, you know, when it comes to performance, yeah, it's, it's just specific. So I can envision selecting a trap bar deadlift as the main hinge type pattern. If a person prefers it, if they have this long injury history, like you mentioned, I still would probably want to expose them to something, um, where they do maybe get a little more, uh, horizontal just to, you know, exposure just so they have that, you know, in their back pocket. But also like if someone was really wanting to do power training, specific power training, plyometrics, they didn't really want to do power clean or Olympic variations that really wasn't on the table. I'm like having done a lot of this with both the trap bar and a straight bar, the trap bar is an easier choice for this, like a, you know, a speed deadlift or jumping trap bar, you know, deadlift, something like that. Um, but also someone super intimidated to deadlifts period. They're like, do even a rack pull for them is like, no go. They might feel more comfortable starting that. That could be, again, your Trojan horse to deadlift is the trap bar deadlift. So ultimately that, yeah, all of those are good use cases, but something that really bothers me is that people will say, well, look, people, uh, folks who choose a trap bar deadlift, they just do it because they're bad at regular deadlifts. And it's like, again, you don't need to moralize exercise selection. This isn't, you don't need to harangue people to do a particular exercise that you like or ascribe some sort of arbitrary value to that's not important. All right. Yes. If you are a competitive power lifter, you're entering a, like you said, a barbell sport related competition where there's going to be a conventional deadlift. We want you to be prepared for that. And at that point, yeah, you do have to do it, but otherwise you don't, you can live a full and complete life, uh, you know, without doing a conventional deadlift from the floor. I mean, some former strongman competitors might say, you know, the full life you can't, what, what is the point of living if you cannot deadlift? I think that was Magnuson. Uh, although many of them don't in fact live full and complete lives because they die early depending on how they got there. Yeah, exactly. So I just think like, good. We don't need to moralize exercise selection. You don't have to do a conventional deadlift unless you are this very niche population. That's probably makes up the large proportion of people listening to this. In fact, but trap or deadlift is fine. Um, that's, that's my take. I think that the outcomes specific to each exercise are relatively unimportant for health related applications, um, more, uh, important for performance related applications. And that's kind of our view on exercise selection. Yeah, I agree. All right. That wraps up this teaser of our direct line AMA. Now this is just a small portion of the full 90 minute episode where we also covered bouldering for health, the stabilizer muscle myth, and Dr. Baraki went over a behavior change mini masterclass. Now, if you want the full episode, the complete archive of all of our past AMAs and our new action plans, join the subscriber community at the link in the description below. Your support allows us to keep pumping out this content that's evidence-based and free from industry influence. Thanks for listening. And we'll see you on the next podcast. Time is precious and so are our pets. So time with our pets is extra precious. That's why we started Dutch. Dutch provides 24 seven access to licensed vets with unlimited virtual visits and follow-ups for up to five pets. You can message a vet at any time and schedule a video visit the same day. Our vets can even prescribe medication for many ailments and shipping is always free with Dutch. You'll get more time with your pets and year round peace of mind when it comes to their vet care. Go to Dutch.com to get vet care that is always there for just $92 a year.

=== FILE: Ozempic & Alcohol, The Trap Bar Myth, and A Medical Mystery ｜ Barbell Medicine AMA Teaser [f238kxXXW98].txt ===

 Ifне 2020, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets, buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzziets buzzi buzziets buzzi buz deep dive and you want to join the queue for our next AMA, head over to the link in the description to subscribe to our Plus feed. All right, let's dig in. This is going to be interesting to you. I can feel it. The question is, is it normal for my legs to get itchy when starting to run? What do you think about that? If we frame this as a mystery case, I would start to have a lot of follow-up questions, but I do think that there's this phenomenon known as quote-unquote runner's itch that is probably what this person's getting at. Again, there are some other possibilities that we can get to in a little bit, but the thought has to do with changes in basically blood flow. So the way capillaries deliver blood throughout our bodies when we start exercising, our peripheral vasculature tends to vasodilate to deliver oxygenated blood to our tissues. And there's a bunch of different changes that happen in the cardiovascular system. And so the thinking is that these changes in the, what we call hemodynamics, the changes in the vascular system, our heart rate, our blood flow, our blood pressure, especially when somebody is not habitually adapted to this, might lead to kind of mechanical stimulation in the local tissues, like in the skin and things like that, that can be experienced as a sensation of itch. There are some other mechanisms of itch. And so just broadly speaking, again, if this were a mystery case, I would actually start by thinking about the different types of mechanisms of itch. There's neurologically mediated itch. There's itch that's mediated by histamine release. There can be itch mediated by other things. For example, I see patients get itchy when they have a lot of bilirubin and they're like jaundiced and turning yellow when they have elevated blood urea levels, things like that. So there's a lengthy list of substances and mechanisms by which people can itch. So I've talked about cardiovascular, neurological. Histamine is another one that you might think of as being kind of associated with allergies, but that's also involved in this kind of like blood flow regulation, vascular regulation. That's why, for example, when people are having an allergic reaction, you might see them develop what are called like wheels on the skin or what we call urticaria as the medical term, this kind of like raised light red to pink area. A lot of that tends to be histamine related as blood flow increases to an area and then it kind of leaks out into the tissues, leading to a little bit of swelling. And it makes the nerve endings in the area a bit more sensitive. And again, the sensitivity of nerve endings can play into the experience of something like itch. Again, I mentioned neurologic. There's this phenomenon called cholinergic urticaria. And there's also other forms as well. If you just look up exercise induced urticaria that people can experience or when they sweat, that can also trigger some of this kind of itching responses, again, also impacted by environmental conditions. I experienced this briefly during a time in my swimming career and I suspect it was multifactorial, some combination of like sweat and like chlorine exposure and maybe something else about the environment that I was in at the time. It wasn't something that I experienced indefinitely or always or reliably, but I just distinctly remember a period of time where I would get kind of red and splotchy on my skin and itchy. And that might've been due to some exposure in that context. So I've experienced it, but what about you? Yeah, I have not, at least not to my conscious knowledge. Perhaps I just attributed to something else, but you mentioned it perfectly. A handful of mechanisms likely involved in this runner's itch, the vasodilation, right? Some histamine release that is normal with particularly exercise can sensitize skin nerve endings. And so people can feel an itch and that obviously varies between individuals. It typically goes away in a few weeks. And then that cholinergic urticaria is far less common, but pretty interesting. All of those are relatively benign. However, things can get weird when it comes to itching during exercise. So Dr. Baraki, imagine this 24 year old fit Marine. He went for a run, he got itchy and then he got hives and his blood pressure dropped to 60 over barely palpable. He didn't know that he didn't have like a blood pressure cuff on him, but he did become lightheaded, thought he was going to pass out. So he sat down to rest for several minutes. And when he attempted to stand, he became even more lightheaded and felt like he was going to black out. So he called 911 and went to the emergency room. Now he was subsequently diagnosed with exercise induced anaphylaxis, which is a rare life threatening syndrome where the immune system reacts to physical exertion often combined with food triggers like wheat, shellfish, et cetera, but not in this specific case. Now, the lesson here is that there's a difference between this case and normal like itchy legs or runner's itch. It's the progression and the symptoms. He didn't just itch. He developed hives and hemodynamic instability, dizziness, low blood pressure. So this case highlights the critical difference between itchy skin or runner's itch and exercise induced anaphylaxis. Pretty interesting case. Now we can't use that for upcoming mystery case now because I gave you the answer. Yeah, I've actually heard of one, a mystery case that I listened to somebody else discuss. I have heard of this once before. It was in the context of some wheat exposure and then subsequent exercise. And yeah, this is a classic story for anaphylaxis, the skin itching, you know, potentially a rash, and then you combine it with some other form, other systems that get involved, either respiratory, people start wheezing, their gastrointestinal system, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, or cardiovascular complications like low blood pressure. Some combination of those are kind of part of the diagnostic criteria for anaphylaxis. This person gets an epinephrine and then you probably have to get assessed by an allergist, immunologist to figure out like, because I don't actually know, aside from avoidance, what the, if there's any sort of treatment for this that can mitigate it, if they use some kind of, you know, a mast cell stabilizer or something like that. I don't, because it'd be nice so that you don't have to like, you know, worry about if I exert myself, am I going to anaphylaxis and die and have to EpiPen myself? Bring an EpiPen. Movies like in Crank, that old, that old movie or something like that. But yeah, interesting and unfortunate condition to have. Yeah. So to summarize, normal runner's itch, you just get itching on the legs and thighs, no visible rash. You feel fine. You're just annoyed because you're itchy. Yeah. Capillary wake-up call. It should resolve in a couple of weeks with consistent training. Keep training. It'll typically resolve. That's different than cholinergic urticaria. So you got the itching and the pinpoint hives or wheels, a little red halo kind of thing, usually heat, sweat related. So usually when folks cool down, potentially it can be mitigated with some antihistamines, although we would want to refer to some clinical expertise for that because just generally taking like a Benadryl before you go exercise, probably not, not the move. And then that's all different than exercise induced anaphylaxis, which was the case report we talked about, which is itching and large hives plus dizziness, wheezing, nausea, you know, other sort of hemodynamic instability type symptoms would recommend stopping. Immediately activate emergency medical services. You need to be seen by some professional. Alcohol use and GLP-1 receptor agonists. So the question is, how do you view heavy alcohol use alongside GLP-1 medications? Is this cognitive dissonance? Whereas someone could be on this medication for treating obesity, for example, while still continuing to drink alcohol. To me, treating the obesity with GLP-1 receptor agonists immediately can improve things like metabolic health, liver function, cardiovascular risk profile. And a patient with treated obesity and excessive alcohol intake is objectively better than a patient with excessive alcohol intake plus untreated obesity. So I think, you know, these are, these things don't have to be like linked together. There's like a little false dichotomy there. Um, and also I should point out like the original question suggested maybe like a substance use disorder thing, whereas excessive alcohol intake is not necessarily substance use disorder. There's specific DSM-5 criteria, um, for substance use disorder. It does get gray there, but I just wanted to clarify, it doesn't automatically mean pathology. It, even though it might not be health promoting, it might not be an actual pathology. So we don't need to medicalize that. Uh, but overall, I kind of think the aggregate health risk is lower, even if the alcohol variable remains constant. Um, although the evidence suggests, and I suspect you'll get into it, it often improves GLP-1 receptor agonists often seems to improve, um, excessive alcohol intake, and maybe even some indication for substance use disorder. But to tie it all together, you know, we don't tell a speeding driver to take off their seatbelt because they don't deserve safety until they stop speeding. We use the seatbelt to keep them alive while we address the speed or the other driving habits. The last part of this, before I, uh, get into, uh, uh, Dr. Baraki's take, it's just like this perfect patient idea, you know, like the patient has to be perfect in order for us to treat them. So like we don't withhold statins from people who eat fast food. Uh, we don't withhold metabolic treatment for those who drink in this particular case. This reminds me of the diary of a CEO, uh, kind of review podcast. Uh, we, we just did with Dr. Lauren, uh, Lauren cleans a sample where they're like, we're going to take people off GLP ones. If they're not exercising, it's like, well, look, we want people to exercise. We know that exercise, even if you're not on these medications, very health promoting, even independent of any change to your weight. But if somebody doesn't, the idea that they're going to be less healthy without these medications and they're not exercising still that that's unlikely. So, uh, Austin, you want to talk about, um, some of these like additional effects, like health benefits that people get from GLP ones and also just how you think about this overall. Yeah, I kind of wish, you know, the, the initial take from the question had me kind of curious as to what exactly the, the question asker here meant. I wish they would have elaborated a little bit more on their, on their thought process, but, um, I, I think I can, uh, follow, follow your lead here, but, but yeah, so GLP one agonists and the multi agonists that we have nowadays that are hitting more and more receptors, they aren't drugs that just work via that single hormone, like in the stomach, for example, like, you know, early on a lot of people and some people still hold these thoughts of, Oh, it just slows down your stomach. It makes you feel really sick. And that's why you lose weight. That is definitively not, uh, the case for these, uh, for these medications at this point, there can be a bit of an early effect with some GI side effects. Those tend to improve with time and those are not reliably predictive of people's weight and health related outcomes. So it is not nearly that, that simple. And additionally, by working what we call centrally or in the brain, we also observe these impacts on appetite, uh, reward pathways that it seems to be extending with early evidence into people's use of alcohol. Now I have a pretty large, I would say base of experience working with patients on these medicines over the years and have observed this, uh, in, in my own practice with them, as well as with some emerging evidence that alcohol use and other substance use disorders actually tend to improve. People tend to spontaneously consume less in the same way that they spend, tend to spontaneously consume fewer calories and lose weight, which is, you know, the main mechanism of benefit for, for weight loss and a lot of the cardiometabolic, you know, downstream consequences. Similarly, they tend to spontaneously end up seeking out and consuming less alcohol. But getting back to this original question, if the idea is I have a patient who, uh, tends to drink alcohol, maybe above recommended limits, um, and they're on this medicine and they continue to do so, you know, this question of, is it cognitive dissonance? Like, should we take the medicine away from them, quote unquote, or decline to prescribe it because they are drinking? And this is a deeply, I would say, uh, problematic, very paternalistic approach to, to clinical medicine. And, and I think there's some degree of like baked in moralization just around the alcohol itself, but also the medicines. And so I've talked about this a bunch before where a lot of these sorts of interventions that we have available in practice, I wish that we could propose them in a completely like decontextualized, um, uh, uh, almost like a, like a Mad Lib type way where it's like, here is the intervention that you have available just in terms of outcomes. It offers this percent benefit on weight. It delivers this percent benefit on risk of mortality. It provides this degree of benefit on liver fat accumulation and cirrhosis. And, and here are the potential risks or the downsides in contrast, this like minuscule risk of this tiny risk of this tiny risk of this. How do you feel about this intervention without knowing what it is or anything else about it? And most people would look at these data and be like, oh yeah, that seems like a no brainer to do something like that. And then you can like, you know, open door number one and reveal to them what that intervention is. And if it turns out to be a GLP one agonist, everybody starts losing their minds because they're like, you know, it's cheating. It's this or that, the other thing, if the potential benefits outweigh the potential risks, then I think that that is a valid basis on which that to, uh, to use these tools, we view them as amoral tools that we have available to us. Um, and then even if there are some potential risks, if the patient goes through a fully, you know, full conversation, uh, and, and you can, you get them as informed as they can be. And they say, look, I accept that risk in order to gain those potential benefits that I'm still willing to pursue it. And so this comes up because I do a, now I'm a decent amount of like menopausal hormone therapy, for example. And so this came up recently where had a, had a woman who was dealing with pretty significant, uh, perimenopausal slash postmenopausal, uh, uh, symptoms. And she, for her own personal reasons was declining to get mammographic screening for, for breast cancer. And yet she would, was stating a clear preference to have her menopausal symptoms treated. Now, I think in the past, uh, and even in the present, many people would say, oh, you're unwilling to get screened for breast cancer. I'm never, ever going to give you any kind of hormone therapy to address your symptoms. But if the person, if you walk through this with them and you, you know, understand, try to understand where they're coming from, what risks they're willing to accept, maybe their reasoning for declining, that kind of thing. It might be the case that, Hey, I'm willing to prescribe it to you because we've had this whole conversation and you understand this potential risk in order to gain this potential benefit. And it's not my job to, you know, withhold this from you. Now, if alternatively, the intervention is clearly more harmful than it is potentially beneficial, then things get a little bit more tricky, but that clearly to date, based on the available evidence is not the case for GLP one receptor agonist, whether the person drinks too much, whether they, you know, are not eating the preferred dietary pattern that we might recommend. Even in some cases, if they're not exercising in the exact ways that we might recommend. Now, there is a certain limit where, okay, this person's BMI is like, you know, 20 or something, or it's cracking eight, 19, eight, they're getting cachectic frail. It's like, yeah, the medicine probably should have been stopped a while ago, or they should have been advised to stop the medicine a while ago, maybe because now you're starting to reach a point where, okay, we're starting to go up on the other side of that U-shaped mortality curve as your BMI gets too low. And I'm like, actually concerned that I'm harming you more than I'm helping you. And so that's why there's a conversation to be had with people. But I really shy away from this like aggressive paternalistic style of care, but rather try to make as many decisions jointly as possible with people and not really moralizing any of this. If the intervention has the potential to benefit, here it is, you know, and then we can work through it together. Yeah. Shared, shared decision-making is the, is the key phrase here. You know, I think there's another way to look at this question and perhaps the, the question askers original intent was with cognitive dissonance from like maybe the patient standpoint, whereas they're, you know, taking this personal responsibility to seek out treatment for presumably obesity, but not doing that for what the question asker views as excessive alcohol intake. And, you know, is that cognitive dissonance at the level of the patient? And it's like, well, not really, you know, you don't have to check all of the boxes for health promotion to make a healthy, you know, choice. It's like a person who starts exercise, but doesn't necessarily change their dietary pattern or vice versa. And it's like, look, there's so many ways that we can influence health and performance and fit, you know, all these things. You don't have to do all of them, you know, to do one of them, but that's kind of like this perfectionist idea. So I don't know. I agree that from the physician patient, that sort of thing, you, you summarize that perfectly. It just, you know, when it comes down to the individual level, behavior changes is challenging. And like, you can pick a single target for behavior change or multiple targets. And that's really up to the individual and the sort of bandwidth they have to do that. Does that square with your understanding? Yeah, I agree. You can have, you can be, you know, in a different stage of behavior change for all sorts of different potential outcomes. And maybe with the GLP-1 use, if somebody does, you know, drink above recommended limits, that'll start to improve. And maybe they get super motivated based on that early progress that they didn't even mean to get. And it leads to a snowballing effect. Or maybe they say, you know, it's helping, but I want to get more. And then maybe then they start to open up the conversation with pursuing some other form of, you know, a clinical care for that use of naltrexone, other sorts of medical therapies, psychotherapies, things like that. But, you know, I think that getting the ball rolling in a positive direction with the meds here is, would be my intent in this type of situation and not, you know, withholding it for that kind of a reason. Yeah. It's like a backdoor treatment almost to like open up the conversation or other options for, for managing it. Again, if there is excessive alcohol intake and a person doesn't want to change that, yeah, it's, that's a bridge that you're creating there. But if you want to go deeper on this, we did just drop a podcast, a GLP one update with Dr. Nadolsky and Dr. Baraki. It's also on our YouTube channel. If you prefer to watch rather than listen and a bunch of references also in the show notes there, I've linked that in the description here. All right. On to the next question. We're talking about training now. The, this is basically a religious war. All right. Am I missing critical gains by using the trap bar to save my lower back? Does the handle height matter? So this is about the debate between a trap bar and a straight bar deadlift. All right. Now to me, people argue about this, like it is a religious war, like it's a theological discussion, but physiologically it's like arguing Coke versus Pepsi. You know, when you look at biomechanical studies, comparing the two lifts, sure, there are distinct differences about where the training load goes, where the muscular tension is created. So for a straight bar deadlift, particularly conventional, that's been the comparator. Bars in front of the legs, there's tends to be a longer moment arm, the distance between the center of the barbell to the hip and back. So you get more hamstring and more erector sort of loading that the same weight is distributed differently, more on the hamstrings and the erectors. For the trap bar, this tends to be a little bit closer to the ankles, the center mass does. So you have a more upright torso. So you get a little more quadriceps involvement and more glutes, less lower back. The result is just that the training load is distributed differently. You're not really missing any quote gains that are generally applied. They just tend to get a little bit more training load on the quadriceps and glutes versus the glutes and the hamstrings and the erectors. It's just slightly different. And to be clear, all of the studies to date on this are focused on EMGs, EMG data, which is just a study of electrical activity at the levels of the muscle. We don't have longitudinal outcomes like group one did trap bar deadlifts, group two did straight conventional deadlifts. At the end, we tested their leg press one rep max or their erector hypertrophy or their hamstrings hypertrophy. If we had that data, we could say with confidence, like, here, look, these are the differences in training outcomes that you can expect if you fit into that population that was studied. But so far, it's just EMG stuff. And EMG data to date does not really correlate well with those outcomes. It's a signal on some level. Like if somebody did a lift and there was, you know, 90 percent voluntary activation of a particular muscle group versus another exercise that had zero percent, you know, activation of a particular muscle or muscle group. Well, sure. At that point, you're like, yeah, my brain still works. I have more than one synapse that functions. You're going to get more gains out of the first exercise where the muscle or muscle group of interest is actually being, you know, electrically active. But other than that, when someone's like, well, this is 60 percent versus 50 percent, I'm like, dude, I don't care. To date, that's just we have a lot of EMG data out there. It just is not really instructive as far as what you should prescribe. Overall, I would predict similar strength gains in unrelated low skill strength tests, whether that's a leg press, whether it's an isometric leg extension or leg curl, something like that. But yeah, at the end of, you know, 12 weeks of trap bar deadlifts versus conventional deadlifts with a straight bar, the biggest differences I would predict are the performance in those individual exercises, but not really outside of that. And then further, I would like to explicitly reject the idea that conventional or straight bar deadlifts are more dangerous or risky on the lower back compared to the trap bar deadlift. Instead, I think that both are safe when loaded appropriately. Just between the two, the training loads distributed slightly differently, though, to what degree and like that that matters depends on what outcomes are being tested and how, you know, you can't say that a regular straight bar deadlift makes you stronger than a trap bar deadlift. It's like, well, in what specific context or a conventional deadlift drives more hypertrophy than the trap bar deadlift? Like, well, what specific muscle group? And then where's the proof? Because to date, that doesn't really exist. So I could not say that confidently. Austin, what do you think about this trap bar deadlift versus straight bar deadlift debate? Is it missing? Is the trap bar deadlift missing anything compared to just a regular straight, you know, conventional deadlift? Or is there ever a time that you would specifically prefer a trap bar deadlift over a conventional deadlift? Yeah, I mean, there are, to your point, slightly different exercises that distribute loads slightly differently. And that leads to the expected slight differences in the adaptations that you get as a result. I just generally struggle to care about this in general. I think that if the person asking this question, or if you're trying to answer this question for yourself, like, do I have a non-negotiable reason that I must conventional deadlift from the floor? Like I'm entering a barbell strength related competition where that is the, you know, the task that I must complete. If that is not the case, as we've talked about before, you have every possible exercise in the world at your, you know, that you can, that you can use to facilitate your training towards whatever desired outcomes and goals are important to you. And so if somebody is not a competitor in a sport that requires it, then it's like, okay, is this just for health? Then I extra don't care about the difference between the two. Because, you know, if you, if you told me, hey, I'm going to have somebody who starts training at pick your age, and then a decade, two decades, three decades, however many years later, between trap bar and conventional deadlift, and then I'm going to measure their resting blood pressure, or their hemoglobin A1c, or their blood lipids. Would I expect to see a difference? Obviously, no, I wouldn't. Might there end up being over a long enough timeframe, some differences in their abilities? If you were to focus, do a focused analysis of their like hamstring versus quadriceps hypertrophy, maybe a little bit if that's all they did, right? But at the same time, it's like you're also doing other exercises that probably make some of that come out in the wash, right? Or their strength on a hamstring focused task versus a quadriceps focus, again, maybe slightly, but you're not only doing trap bar and conventional and leaving the gym, at least I don't think you are, right? You're probably also doing maybe some squatting, maybe you enjoy doing some, I don't know, good mornings, or you do, you know, some machine work or something else that probably also serves to close that gap even further. So my answer is no, I don't think you're missing any critical gains by doing one over the other, unless again, you're a competitor in a sport that requires it. Handle height similarly just makes it a different exercise. A trap bar with low handles is slightly different than a trap bar with high handles, leads to slightly different adaptations. It's probably some slight differences in, you know, strength performance through that range of motion in your training, some slight differences in hypertrophy. Again, if that is the only exercise that you're doing and you're not kind of shoring up any gaps in other ways. My last comment here is the question, the way it was phrased to quote, save my lower back. And I just would like, I would be kind of poking at that a little bit and asking, tell me what made you say that? Is it that I have a history of back issues and I'm worried that conventional deadlifting is going to flare it up. And so I don't do it. So I'm avoiding that movement that I might say, okay, well, I would rather that we feel a little bit more confident in just like moving in all sorts of different ways in an unrestricted capacity. So if you'd like to train the trap bars or main movement, that's great, but maybe we can either, you know, just sprinkle in a little bit of some conventional deadlifting, even if it's load capped at a super low load, just to expose you to that so that you can maybe start to, you know, address some of that fear around that. Or maybe we just start out if that's too concerning to you of just a conventional RDL or something like that to mimic it and move in that way. If on the other hand, you say, look, I've been doing this for years. Every time I train conventional deadlifts, it goes great early on. As I build up my strength, the weights go up. And then eventually I inevitably end up having a significant setback. And when I train trap bar instead, I never have a setback. It's like, okay, you know, I would be perfectly accepting of that explanation, even though there's probably some things that we might still be able to modify, you know, with your programming as it related to, but for some people, it's just like, I don't actually care that much. It's not worth it to me to go through all this, you know, you know, nitpicking of my program to make me tolerate an exercise that isn't that important to me that I'm not missing out on a ton of by doing other things. And that I've experienced so many setbacks on over the years. So this is kind of like that last question of like a give and take in this conversation. So that's what I mean is I wouldn't say that a trap bar necessarily saves quote unquote, your lower back or is safer for your lower back compared to conventional deadlifting, assuming it's again, reasonably programmed, but different people tolerate different exercises differently. Right. And there's some things that are just don't feel good to some people for, you know, even for between you and I, I know that there's some movements that you like that I don't and vice versa. And that's just, that's okay. You know, as, as part of a more comprehensive training program, the gaps are all shored up one way or another, even if we go about the tiny details of exercise selection somewhat differently. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of view this as like a, when it comes to exercise selection, it's like a buffet, you know, like you're, you're at old country buffet and like, you're going to pick different foods than I am. But at the end of the day, we're still like, all right, we want to make sure we get our protein. We want to make sure we get some, you know, carbohydrates want to make sure we get a decent fat source and maybe dessert. And it's like, you know, the way we go about it, you know, that's your squat pattern, your hinge pattern, your press pattern, your pull pattern. We're going to get exposed to all of those things, but the specifics are mostly personal preference, especially when it comes to health. And, and, you know, when it comes to performance, yeah, it's, it's just specific. So I can envision selecting a trap bar deadlift as the main hinge type pattern. If a person prefers it, if they have this long injury history, like you mentioned, I still would probably want to expose them to something, um, where they do maybe get a little more, uh, horizontal just to, you know, exposure just so they have that, you know, in their back pocket. But also like if someone was really want to do power training, specific power training, plyometrics, they didn't really want to do power clean or Olympic variations that really wasn't on the table. I'm like having done a lot of this with both the trap bar and a straight bar, the trap bar is an easier choice for this, like a, you know, a speed deadlift or jumping trap bar, you know, deadlift, something like that. Um, but also if someone's super intimidated to deadlifts period, they're like, even a rack pull for them is like, no go. They might feel more comfortable starting that. That could be, again, your Trojan horse to deadlift is the trap bar deadlift. So ultimately that, yeah, all of those are good use cases, but something that really bothers me is that people will say, well, look, people, folks who choose a trap bar deadlift, they just do it because they're bad at regular deadlifts. And it's like, again, you don't need to moralize exercise selection. This isn't, you don't need to harangue people to do a particular exercise that you like or ascribe some sort of arbitrary value to. That's not important. All right. Yes. If you are a competitive power lifter, you're entering, like you said, a barbell sport related competition where there's going to be a conventional deadlift. We want you to be prepared for that. And at that point, yeah, you do have to do it, but otherwise you don't, you can live a full and complete life, uh, you know, without doing a conventional deadlift from the floor. I mean, some former strongman competitors might say, you know, the full life, you can't, what, what is the point of living if you cannot deadlift? I think that was Magnuson. Uh, although many of them don't in fact live full and complete lives because they die early depending on how they got there. Yeah, exactly. So I just think like, good, we don't need to moralize exercise selection. You don't have to do a conventional deadlift unless you are in this very niche population. That's probably makes up the large proportion of people listening to this. In fact, but a trap bar deadlift is fine. Um, that's, that's my take. I think that the outcomes specific to each exercise are relatively unimportant for health related applications, um, more, uh, important for performance related applications. And that's kind of our view on exercise selection. Yeah. I agree. All right. That wraps up this teaser of our direct line AMA. Now this is just a small portion of the full 90 minute episode where we also covered bouldering for health.  gненене,amentalistr buzzi, buzzi gне,amentalistr buzzi gне,amentalistr buzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi gнеzzi Thank you.

=== FILE: Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS)： Definitions, Diagnosis, Causes, and  Treatments [CL7vIgB2cUk].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're going to talk about one of the most common endocrine and metabolic disorders of women that's Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, or PCOS. PCOS is a complex medical condition affecting reproductive, cardiometabolic, and psychological health. While it affects millions of women worldwide, there are many gaps in diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring related to PCOS. In this podcast, we'll cover what PCOS is, how it's diagnosed and treated, and special considerations for diet, exercise, and sport with the help of our very special guest, Dr. Lorraine Baraki. She's the most handsome doctor in North America. She's a board-certified obstetrics and gynecology physician and a lieutenant colonel in the Army. She's also competed in powerlifting, making her one of, if not the strongest obstetrician in the world. What's going on, Lorraine? Hey, Jordan. Happy to be here. I will make one correction that I am but a mere month away from my promotion to lieutenant colonel, but thank you for the early shout-out. It is appreciated. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that there's my knowledge of how the military promotion system works, but, you know, captain to lieutenant colonel, we need to recognize you. Congratulations. Thank you. I appreciate it. Do you think that you're the strongest obstetrician in the world? Jordan, at this time, I have no data that would suggest otherwise. That's a resounding yes. Yeah, I think so. Very confident. Very cool. So this is obviously Dr. Austin Baraki's better half, and she is our resident expert. So we're going to talk about PCOS. We're going to start off with what is PCOS? So, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome or PCOS does not have a universally accepted definition, and the term cis is kind of a misnomer since we're really talking about dormant ovarian follicles in the ovary, not true cis. Still, the syndrome is characterized by three common findings in affected women, such as abnormal ovulation, elevated levels of androgens, like testosterone, and an increase in dormant follicles in the ovaries that look like cis on ultrasound. Now, Dr. Baraki, when seeing a patient who is concerned about PCOS, how do you describe what PCOS is to them? Sure. Well, that's a great question, and unfortunately not a very straightforward question, because PCOS is not one thing. And so a lot of how I answer that is going to depend on what brought them to the clinic in the first place. But to kind of give a better scaffolding for how I would answer, I would just say that the criteria that's used, in this case the Rotterdam criteria that came about in 2003, describes the three elements that you mentioned, ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, and then PCO-looking ovaries on ultrasound. And that is a criteria that is says, yes, this is PCOS if two of the three are found in an individual, while also ruling out a variety of other conditions that can potentially explain some of the symptoms that brought the person into the office in the first place. And so I mentioned that because that leads to a little bit of a nuanced approach to how you're going to navigate this conversation with the patient, and also how you are going to pursue this diagnostic workup, because there's not a one size fits all, even in the lab evaluation, for coming to the conclusion that this patient may have PCOS. So that's kind of the quick and dirty rundown of what it can entail, but we can get into a little bit more detail of how that may be individualized. That discussion and the complications thereof, I can appreciate because, yeah, you're right, it isn't just like one thing and why the patient came in as, you know, that's the most important thing to them, not like they're not seeking a diagnosis of PCOS, for example, they're not like, hey, work me up for exactly this. And the workup, as we'll talk about, is a little more nuanced, as you mentioned, but I wanted to go through these three, like, principle or common findings and just make sure that everyone understands them a little more thoroughly. We talk about ovulatory dysfunction. Most resources on PCOS describe abnormal ovulation as like oligoaminorrhea or amenorrhea, and those are two jargon terms that people may not be familiar with, particularly if they're not healthcare professionals. So what does those two terms mean exactly in this context? Sure. So just to break down the Latin of it first, taking the menorrhea portion of it to refer to the menses itself or having a period, and the oligo suggesting a lower than normal amount, or A as in amenorrhea, suggesting the absence of. And so specifically when we use these terms, we are referring to women who have been identified as not ovulating 12 to 13 times in a year, and that is going to be evidenced by irregularities in their menses. That can look a couple of different ways depending on the person, but it can be just the prolonged absence of menstrual flow, or it can be marked by periods of weeks to months of bleeding even, because there isn't any regulatory reset that the event of ovulation is helping to control, and so it can be a little bit chaotic, unpredictable, frequent, and prolonged bleeding. Yeah, that makes sense. And there's also some specific concerns around like transit transition periods in a woman's life, whether that's puberty or perimenopause, for example, because there are norms for how often they should be ovulated, and how regular that should be. And so a person who's being evaluated for PCOS, it's not just like, oh, have you had abnormal menstrual periods? It's more like, okay, how old are you? How far are you removed from puberty, or how close are you to perimenopause? So yeah, it can be more complicated. Exactly. The second common finding that we discussed, and part of the Rotterdam criteria, is this hyperandrogenism, so increased levels of testosterone in a woman, which affects a lot of folks with PCOS. What sort of signs and symptoms does this actually produce in folks who do have PCOS? Sure. So the two big ones that really end up causing quite a bit of the distress that's associated with this syndrome tend to be excessive acne, facial and body acne, excessive body oils in those same areas, as well as hair growth. Specifically in women, we're looking at facial hair growth on the neck, between the breast, periareolar hair growth, thicker hair growth between the thighs, the lower back. And so those are some of the more outward manifestations that can really impact a person's self-esteem, self-image, and contribute to some of that psychological distress, like I mentioned. Some other things that can go along with a hyperandrogenic state, could be deepening of one's voice. It can be enlargement of the clitoris. Those are things that are also going to be queried when a patient comes in and is describing things such as hair growth or excessive acne, because I mentioned earlier that when we're trying to make this diagnosis, we also need to tease out whether there could be other reasons that are causing the patient's symptoms. And so particularly we're interested to know if it can be explained by something much less common, such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, an adrenal tumor, things along those lines. And so those are the consolation of symptoms that we're thinking about when we are looking to satisfy this criteria or to see if the patient rules in this way. Yeah, so you're describing some clinical manifestations of a biochemical finding, which is excess testosterone in this case. And so you can identify that two different ways, a lab test, and then also just by evaluating the patient. And generally those two things do converge together, but not always. Humans, as it turns out, are complicated. And then the last part of this Rotterdam criteria is this polycystic ovarian morphology, basically saying that the ovaries look a little pickled on ultrasound. And I don't say that to make a joke about this condition, because obviously it can affect folks. But yeah, it is interesting that it's described as being polycystic, but they're not true cysts, which would just be like fluid filled or air filled or substance filled sacs. What they really are are dormant ovarian follicles that have failed to mature. And in other words, they're just hanging out. And so there's like specific cutoffs for how many you see on ultrasound of the entire ovary or per field on an ovary, or even ovarian volume. But really, again, what we're talking about here are like arrested follicles that have not gone through their normal life cycle. So what is that? What is an arrested follicle? And like, why does this matter? Sure. So if we take it way back to the very beginning, when a female embryo is developing in their mother's womb, we actually have the highest number of like precursor eggs that we're ever going to have in our ovarian tissue that's developing. And there are certain milestones that we reach as after at the time of birth, at the time of puberty, when you first have your first period and so on and so forth. And then ultimately to when you reach menopause and you have ovulated your last egg. And at each of these different thresholds or milestones, there's a bit of a culling of the initial population or quantity of precursor eggs, if you want to think of it that way. And these precursor eggs essentially all exist in the tissue of the ovary. And when they meet certain triggers, specifically with hormonal stimulation, they are going to be promoted to grow, they're going to be nourished in little groups and cohorts. And these groups are intended to go through a trajectory of growth and development. And ultimately within each group, what you can expect for a reproductive age female is that you're typically going to have one follicle that is selected to be the follicle that's going to go all the way, if you will. And in this case, going all the way means it's going to reach the point where it's going to be stimulated to ultimately release that egg and to ovulate. And so all of the other precursor eggs in that cohort will undergo degeneration and a breakdown and then it's kind of on to the next cohort and the next cycle of a pregnancy doesn't happen. And so when we're thinking about what we see in PCOS, you think about the cohort that's being stimulated, but they don't get past a certain point. So you don't end up having a leader, if you will, that goes all the way or that goes on to reach the point of ovulation. And you really just have a lot of these follicles that are in between state and they're not waxing or waning, they're not harming you either, they're dormant, like you said. And that's something that's characteristic and that can be observed on the ultrasound. Yeah, no, I like that. Because effectively, you'd want the one that leads them all or there can only be one and it's been fully matured and it's ovulated and under the right circumstances can become fertilized. And look, that's when the stork comes. That's exactly how that works. I think that's exactly how that works. But in PCOS, it's disrupted due to hormonal things that are going on that are not consistent with the normal physiology. We'll cover that. We try to tease out some of the pathophysiology, but first, I wanted to talk about some more of the symptoms of PCOS. Now, PCOS has a bunch of different subtypes and it can present in different ways depending on a variety of factors, like the severity of the condition that the person has, the age of onset, much different from somebody who's an adolescent, fresh out of puberty and somebody who's perimenopausal, for example, and other concomitant health conditions, obesity, for example. Is there a typical PCOS presentation that you see in clinical practice or a common history among patients that come in to be evaluated by you that triggers your spidey senses like, oh, shoot, we might be dealing with PCOS here? Sure. I think before describing it, I will caution any listener to recognize that this scenario that I will describe can sometimes, I think, be a little bit harmful in terms of creating a bias for the clinician and potentially be harmful in the way that may exclude other patients that don't necessarily fit this description. Didn't read the textbook, yeah. Exactly. And so the textbook description or the presenting patient that you think probably has PCOS is going to be someone who is overweight or obese, caveat, not all patients with PCOS are overweight or obese. They are going to have a little bit of extra hair growth that you can see usually like in the upper chin or markedly noticeable acne on the face, but not always. And they're going to be presenting with the chief complaint of either abnormal periods or inability to conceive. And so those are kind of the hallmarks. Regardless of what the patient looks like or what they're presenting with, that's kind of our branch point is saying I have super irregular periods or I've been trying to conceive for six, 12 months or more and have been unsuccessful with the constellation of other things that I mentioned. Yeah, yeah, you're not looking at a patient and just based on their physical appearance and saying, hey, you know what, I'm kind of concerned that you have PCOS absent of any other concerns, the major concerns that would trigger somebody to get motivated to come see that they're obese, problems conceiving, abnormal period, potentially both. And then you can unfold their history and like, oh, well, this all kind of makes sense and I'm going to work you up a little further. But yeah, good caveats there because again, there is no like, I don't know, model patient for this particular condition. That's why I call it a syndrome and not just a syndrome. Exactly. Yeah, there you go. All right. So with respect to epidemiology, like who gets this, how many people does this affect, it affects millions of women globally, and it appears to be increasing. So recent data shows a 54% growth from 1.3 million global cases in 1990 to 2.1 million in 2019, where PCOS affects approximately 10 to 13% of women. Is this what you're seeing in clinical practice, like an increase in diagnoses? And if so, like, why do you think it's increasing? This is really interesting, especially because you've mentioned those dates, particularly as we go back to the original criteria that we used to diagnose. So in 1990, we were still using the NIH criteria, which was a lot more selective. Specifically, the NIH criteria in comparison to the Rotterdam criteria was one that said you necessarily had to have ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism. And the PCO or the polycystic morphology or look of the ovaries was plus minus in this criteria. And going off of an NIH description, then that percentage was about 5% to 8%. And it wasn't until 2003 that the Rotterdam criteria was published and since then has become widely used and has ultimately replaced the criteria per the NIH. And that's what puts us at about 15%. And it's really the inclusion of other factors or capturing women who have different combinations of these symptoms that then end up with this diagnosis of PCOS. So I can't say that there's a particular phenomenon or that something is happening with human population in the last 15, 20 years that is leading to more of this syndrome occurring in women. But rather, I think that we're just capturing more. Yeah, because people are going to see this increase. They're like, oh, look, it's the GMOs, it's something in the water, it's... I told you. We told them, trying to tell you. But yeah, that was my interpretation as well. It seemed like that the criteria for diagnoses and inclusion actually brought in. So you're capturing more people that before would have been plus minus PCOS and now they get that diagnostic label. Exactly. To the extent that's helpful, that's maybe another podcast. But yeah, I want people when they hear that to not think, like, oh my gosh, what's happening to the female reproductive health? Is it the SSRIs? Is it the water? Is it the GMOs? It probably has more to do with the diagnostic criteria and surveillance being a little bit loosened, a little more liberalized than it was. But again... Exactly. Yeah, it's nice to hear it from the expert. All right. Well, yeah, let's continue on here and we'll talk about this diagnosis and walk and work up. We've talked about the Rotterdam criteria a number of times and as you mentioned, it came out in 2003 and you need to have two, at least two of the three criteria here. So you have to have some ovulatory dysfunction. So oligo, amenorrhea, amenorrhea, something like that. You have to have hyperangogenism. So again, increases in testosterone and or these polycystic appearing ovarian morphology, which you see on ultrasound. And so you're using this in clinical practice regularly, but when you're working somebody up, is that that's part of your kind of workflow? Yes, exactly. And so I mentioned earlier that the that diagnostic work up is not going to be the same for every person, specifically for those who are presenting with very pronounced symptoms of hyperangogenism. There are going to be other labs that should be drawn at the same time when we are evaluating for this that are not necessarily required or part of the usual work up for someone who maybe doesn't even report any hyperangogenism or symptoms of it rather, or who just have kind of mild acne or it's quote unquote hormonal acne, things like that, but really no appreciable pursuit ism or hair growth on the face or body. And so that that's kind of where some of the the art comes into play, along with the science to say, does this person require, you know, getting a DHEAS, for example, from the adrenal potential pathology, not every person that has abnormal periods and PCO appearing ovaries needs a DHEAS or a 17 OHP, there's another lab that you may get. And so you really just need to tailor the work up to the individual, because if you just take it like black and white, there's nothing extra or nothing weird else going on like that requires additional investigation. When we're looking at the when we're looking at the clinical finding of hyperangogenism and want to investigate that through a lab, it really should just be through a total testosterone. There is suggestion of obtaining a DHEAS as a surrogate or as another way of determining is this person hyperandrogenemic. But there are not very straightforward cutoffs for determining what is normal or abnormal. There's a lot better clarity in determining a cutoff on DHEAS when it comes to this person could have a tumor or below this number could be normal, could suggest that they have hyperangogenism, and it's just not as helpful. But a total testosterone is a bit of a cleaner test in a tighter window diagnostically to evaluate that part. Getting into the weeds a little bit too, but just total versus free testosterone, just stick to the total because free is going to have more variation as well that that isn't necessarily going to be helpful in making this diagnosis. Yeah, and you can and you can calculate the free as well with the was the free androgen index if you need it. Exactly. Yeah. But it does seem like you're thinking in the back of your head that, okay, look, maybe looks like smells like feels like PCOS, but this particular patient the way they're presenting, I don't know, they might have this non classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia or an androgen secreting tumor or, you know, prolactin just something else. And so you're like, I want to send these other things. But to your point, there's not like a this algorithm, where it's just you follow this exactly, don't ask any questions, don't think about it. There's some art here. Yeah, you mentioned you I just heard you mentioned prolactin. So that also brings us to another branch point too, depending on whether one of their concerns is abnormal bleeding. So if they have abnormal periods, and that's a part of the constellation of symptoms going on for them, then it is important to consider checking a complete blood count to quantify, especially if they're someone who say they have ongoing bleeding. That just persist for weeks and weeks without end. It's important to evaluate their blood count, as well as checking a thyroid stimulating hormone and a prolactin. Yeah. Yeah. And there's and that's just, you know, again, to try to get at this hormonal sort of basis like look like what else could be going on just to make sure. But even within PCOS, there is additional workup because it is associated with all of these other wide reaching effects on the body and its function, specifically around like PCOS related increases in heart disease, metabolic dysfunction, psychiatric conditions and so on. And so the workup is not just like, all right, let's get a test to Ostrone, let's slap an ultrasound on you, and let's ask you about your periods. You also want to make sure that the person's blood pressure has been measured recently. You want to check their lipids, for example, you want to check their weight, their BMI, waist circumference, an oral glucose tolerance test to see if they, you know, what level of insulin resistance may be going on. You are testing the testosterone certainly, but you may also be looking at some of the other hormones that we had mentioned. On the skin exam, you're not just looking for the hair stuff, but also to have they had hair lost some of this androgenic alopecia. Do they have evidence of like acanthosis, nigricans, things like that? And so the list really does go on. I mean, even something like obstructive sleep apnea, women with PCOS have a much higher prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea compared to women that are age matched, but don't have PCOS. And so yeah, the work up here, again, it does highlight the art of medicine, because it's not just like, okay, look, we're testing for these handful of things, just symptom based management, you're really trying to get at, if I can use a term that's getting a lot of buzz, the root cause, like what's going on, and also manage any potential sequelae to the condition. Is this done in batches? Because I'm just imagining like the person comes in, and you're kind of getting their history, you're getting a sense of like, what do you want to do while you're also trying to massage any of these concerns, you don't want to freak the person out. Is this just like, all right, shotgun approach, we're testing everything, come back, and we're seeing you on a second visit, or is this like, meet it out over a longer period of time? So I think that different clinical practices, outpatient practices, probably take a variety of approaches. And it's really a shame, I think, some of the pressures that sub specialists like OBGYNs face, and some of the workload that we're needing to achieve on any given clinic day, I think may pressure some clinicians to take a shotgun approach. I think that in an ideal world, however, whether I think someone has PCOS, or something else entirely, it's really important to establish rapport, set expectations upfront, and to be very transparent about the fact that the evaluation and the time spent reviewing results, and in interpreting those results, and applying them to the individual as you develop a patient-centered plan of care, is something that really should take several appointments. And while an individual's time is valuable, hers and mine, if we say that upfront, I think that it helps to decrease a lot of the angst and the distrust and the frustration that a lot of patients tend to feel. Because I can be upfront and say, this matters to your health, and you matter to me, and I want to help take care of you. It's going to take time if we're going to do a good job of this, and also understand that if PCOS is the conclusion that we come to in this case, it is a chronic condition. It is not something that we're going to establish treatment plan for, and that we're going to fix, quote unquote, not to say that you are broken, but we're going to have to address your goals and priorities, and also identify risks, and continually think about how we're going to mitigate those risks lifelong. It also is nice in that we don't want people to have to spend their entire life in the doctor's office and go to the ends of the earth to access health care, but if there's a silver lining to all of this, you have more opportunities to interface with the patient, and when it comes to mitigating long-term risks and improving long-term quality of life, having more opportunities to get your foot in the door and come up with a shared plan, it does seem like that's much better than like, I'm going to see you once, I'm going to give you a prescription and then be gone, go on, go forth and prosper. And unfortunately, I tend to see a lot of that secondarily when a patient then represents later on, or maybe they moved another establishing care again, and I just hear tales of, you know, patients being told that they had to do this particular treatment plan, and that was it, and they didn't understand why, and they're scared of that treatment plan, or they don't fully understand it, so they don't like it, so they don't want to do that, and so it really sets the stage for a little bit of an uphill conversation, but that person in front of me deserves to understand what's going on with them, and and if they will confide in me and give a little bit more time, I do appreciate the opportunity to do that over several visits. Yeah, yeah, it seems like that has the opportunity, at least the potential to work better, although as the amount of appointments increases, there's, you know, some level of attrition that happens, and so I can see that being a double-edged sword. Yeah. When we talk about PCOS, you know, invariably people are going to ask, well, what causes it? You know, what's the path of physiology? What, you know, what really is the root cause, again? And unfortunately, we don't have a great answer for you, and, you know, we could write it off as simple as that and say, yeah, sorry, but we don't understand this completely, but I think we can get at a potential better understanding when we talk about this increased production of androgens by the ovaries and its subsequent disruption in the normal feedback loop that traditionally goes on between the hypothalamus, the pituitary, and the ovarian glands. I mean, that's happening on some level, and as you alluded to earlier, you know, normally females are born with like what, one to two million follicles, and then by the time they hit puberty, it's 400 to 500,000. And then it gets less and less, and, you know, what is the difference in normal physiology during a menstrual cycle compared to  and some body with PCOS. Because I think if we can identify, like, look, traditionally we have these hormone changes, that's what normally happens. And then an individual with PCOS, these are the hormone changes that we're seeing, and this is kind of why that cycle starts, and it's almost like a positive feedback loop that continues to progress unchecked. Sure, so it's a bit tricky to describe with words alone, and is often best supplemented with a diagram or a graph. We need that one picture. One that, yes, with all the little peaks and troughs and all the roller coasters that tends to show us the relationship between estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone, and follicle stimulating hormone throughout a normal, quote unquote, 28 day menstrual cycle that demonstrates essentially a lower estrogen state in the first half of the cycle and as the follicles are being stimulated, you see increases in follicle stimulating hormone, and then about halfway through this cycle, there are triggers that lead to a surge or a spike in the luteinizing hormone. That spike is associated with the ovulation event, and after which time there is an increase in estrogen production, and all of these, mili-u of hormones are interacting with each other and causing a variety of different actions, reactions there in this feedback loops. And so if we take it back to kind of one of the, one of the fundamental elements of PCOS is this oligo or an ovulation, then what we take from that is that you don't have a normal low LH until it's time to spike. You don't have a period where there's lower estrogen than higher estrogen or lower progesterone and then higher progesterone, and there's a bit more of a static state where it is more of an estrogen predominant state more persistently without having that interaction to fluctuate and to kind of switch places with progesterone as a progesterone dominant state in that part of the menstrual cycle. And so, and that leads to one of the risk factors that we'll talk about here in a moment, but additionally, the LH itself is kind of at a steady state too. So it's not peaking when it should, so it's not triggering that follicle to ovulate, and that was preceded by follicle stimulating hormone, not behaving normally to encourage that cohort to progress and so on and so forth. And so you do find these periods of more static hormonal statuses, which also speaks to the lack of utility of kind of measuring these things at any point in the workup because none of those levels are gonna be diagnostic or really helpful. What's helpful is listening to a person's story, like what they're actually experiencing. If they're telling you they're bleeding, you can tease out more to determine whether it sounds like they are ovulating or not. And just as a plug to kind of get that out of some folks mind that we don't need to be measuring every single hormone at play here, just recognize that they are not interacting normally and therefore the downstream effects are something that you experience and that you can glean through an interview with the patient. I think when people are trying to wrap their head around this again and before we went on air, I was like, man, just trying to figure out this pathophysiology, if I could just understand it better then I can understand the condition better and you're like, not really. I'm like, I know, but I just want to, just to summarize for folks, there is this complex interplay between FSH, LH, estrogen, progesterone, there's a bunch of others, players there too, and they cycle in this very complex orchestrated month long, journey to ultimately produce a viable follicle and then look if that doesn't get fertilized. Well, you got some changes on the back end of that too. That's the quote, normal physiology, but instead of having these cyclical cascade of multiple things happening, it's pretty much static the whole way through. And if you had to take home one thing, it's like, well, LH is way too high and FSH is way too low and because LH is high, you get a bunch of weird things that happen. Testosterone levels are higher, and androids and dione, these are precursor, prohormone to more testosterone-like hormones that those end up being higher. And so the outcomes from a hyperandrogenism standpoint, almost predictable, you're like, well, shoot, if my testosterone, my androids, you know, steen dione is higher and all these things are higher and FSH never gets as high as it should be. I don't get this ovulation event. Well, shoot, I'm gonna have all these dormant follicles, I'm gonna have all this excess testosterone and oh, shoot, dang, that's kinda, that's PCOS. Now, I don't wanna reduce PCOS to just that because it's much more complex, but I think if you wanted to wrap your head around it, like maybe you could do worse, you could do worse than that. Do you agree with that? I think you did pretty well, yeah. That's a great summary. I spent a lot of time on OB. With respect to risk factors, here's where it starts to get a little weird in my mind because there are significant risk factors that are like independent of PCOS, the condition itself. And then there are ones that not only contribute to PCOS, like having it, but also like contribute to the severity of the condition. And so just to give an example, like genetics, certainly genetic targets, mostly having to do with like sex steroid, hormone signaling, ovarian follicle, maturation, insulin production and activity, those sort of things. There's a lot of genetic targets here that when combined, it's not a single gene, one weird gene is contributed, but it's polygenic. That doesn't, it influences the likelihood of somebody developing PCOS and their course, but that static, it doesn't really change over time, whereas something like obesity, you have a higher risk of not only experiencing PCOS, but the worst the obesity is also tends to make it more severe too. So it's kind of like works in both ways. When you think about risk factors and a patient, environment where you're explaining this to them, do you bring up risk factors at all? Or is it more like it's in the back of your head, trying to stay like, oh, this makes more sense why this person's experiencing this? Sure, so the main risk categories that my counseling will cover includes endometrial risks. We talk about metabolic health. We talk about psychological propensity towards stress, depression and anxiety. We essentially tie those into, like you said, it can be linked to or tied into the diagnosis of PCOS. In other words, we're gonna talk about mitigating risk and also addressing some of their symptoms that are part of their diagnosis. Or independent of their symptoms say you have PCOS and therefore going forward, you do have an increased risk with regard to your metabolic health and your health outcomes. And so we talk about healthy, establishing what their baseline for physical activity is and healthy weight and some strategies to achieve that as well as in terms of the endometrial health, we talk about how we can try to prevent basically an excess of endometrial stimulation. So what do I mean by that? I mentioned that in PCOS, it tends to be a higher estrogen state and especially if you are not having a period on a regular basis, that means that the uterine lining or the endometrium is not shedding regularly and therefore has the opportunity to overgrow essentially what we would call hyperplasia. And hyperplasia exists on a continuum, which can lead to basically like a precancerous condition and ultimately endometrial cancer. And so this is not to say that anyone with a PCOS diagnosis will have or might have endometrial cancer, it totally depends on what their menstrual patterns are, how often they are having withdrawal bleeds and whatnot. But we talk about strategies for either regulating or just suppressing endometrial growth. And then to address the psychological risks, I think it's important to just take a step back and to identify the individual as just a whole person that is there to see me for this one thing, but it's really not just one thing. And depending on what their goals are or what their concerns are, what their insecurities are, what their hopes and prospects for whatever the future may hold, whether it includes fertility goals or not, whatever the case may be, it's important to just recognize that they are a whole person and to encourage just behavioral health resources to just have the opportunity to talk through these things. Cause I just mentioned that it's a chronic disease as well or a chronic syndrome, I should say. And so those are kind of the big categories for risk identification and mitigation. Circling back to the healthy weight part, I did wanna mention that in patients who are overweight and obese, who do have some weight loss, that it is quite common to see improvement in symptoms, specifically symptoms of abnormal bleeding. So it is quite common to experience normalization of menses with five to 10% weight loss of adipose, as well as improving fertility outcomes as well because if I regulate your menses, well, not me directly, but if your menses regulate because you had some weight loss, then that is telling me that you are probably ovulating on a more regular basis. And the more often you are ovulating, and if you are engaging in unprotected intercourse, then the more likely that pregnancy can happen if that's what you desire. The store comes, that's what you're saying. That's exactly what I'm saying. Yeah, I actually, this is a good segue cause I didn't wanna belabor the point too much on weight management, body fat management, body composition, or even obesity, generally speaking, mainly because in my coming up with this outline and working on this and relearning a lot of stuff that I had selectively blocked from my medical training, I became acutely aware that as far as obesity stigma goes or which weight stigma in general goes, PCOS may be like one of the most affected medical conditions by that. And I don't mean that just from like a general populist standpoint, but even amongst medical professionals, they see an individual with PCOS and the person may be overweight or have obesity, for example, and they're like, oh, well, just lose weight. Just lose weight, you know? And it's like, well, that may, in some cases, yeah, lead to a big improvement in the symptoms and help them reach their goals, whether it's fertility or otherwise, but the actual effect of obesity on this condition is far more complicated than that. And there's been a lot of research into this. Are the appetite-promoting hormones significantly higher in individuals with PCOS? Are the satiety or fullness hormones that people experience as they eat and when they can finish eating a meal? Are those lower? Right, is that what's tripping off this propensity to gain weight at a faster rate than individual without PCOS or have more difficulties with weight management? Yeah, not really. There's been a lot of investigation here, but my point on saying all this is that we haven't had great treatments for obesity previously. It's mostly like, hey, have you considered exercise or eating differently? And it's like, yeah, my whole life I've been trying this. And we've been limited with opportunities to intervene otherwise. And having gone to medical school together, Dr. Fangbom and I, we're speaking from the same era and literally from the same learning environment, but we now, me as a board certified OBGYN, we don't come into this specialty and are armed with extra knowledge or information on how to effectively handle this particular topic. And it is something that I think that each of us need to take upon ourselves to stay in the know and to stay up to date with any other ways that we can approach this topic without coming off like in a paternalistic way or an overly reductionist tone to the patient too, because it's not her fault that she has PCOS and while some weight loss can help with the symptoms, any weight gain that she has experienced is not the result of her in activity or sloth or decision to gain weight, whatever the case may be. And honestly, we just need to get smarter on how to address this in a multidisciplinary way and a multifactorial and really like in a biopsychosocial way. I mean, obviously I know that it's been discussed on this podcast and a lot just on the interwebs in general, but obviously with various weight loss medications that are becoming more and more popular. I did want to mention just that with GLP-1 medication specifically that like with a lot of things in reproductive health or pregnancy in general, it's important to recognize that the side effect of some weight loss in a person who has had fertility issues can be increased fertility because of like a downstream effect ultimately, leading to ovulation, leading to that opportunity for the stork to come. And so, and at this point in time, we don't have any safety data really. We're in the information gathering phase for that. You may have heard of some ozympic babies and the like. There are registries for these things. So it's one of those things that I think that as time goes on, there will be more and more and we'll be in a position to try to speak on the safety and efficacy of that in the preconception timeframe, but for now, if someone's trying to conceive and you're on a GLP-1, it's advised to come off of it for a couple of months. And then the other thing I wanted to mention is just when it comes to weight loss surgery. That's another thing that is not really heavily anchored in our curriculum, just in medical school in general and certainly not like an OBGYN training, but I am a surgeon and I have patients that can absolutely benefit from at least having a discussion with a bariatric surgeon to talk about some of the benefits of potential weight loss surgery and just the myriad of health considerations that we can positively impact through that. Yeah, it's a great segue into our break. When we come back after this, we'll talk more about PCOS and how to treat it. We're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast with Dr. Lorraine Baraki, the most handsome doctor in North America. She's a board certified of Cetrix and Gynecology Physician. Again, we're talking about PCOS and now how to treat it. So we're gonna start with lifestyle stuff here. And when it comes to lifestyle-based treatments, for PCOS, weight management is a big component for nearly all published guidelines. Now, most of these guidelines acknowledge that the rate of weight gain and the prevalence of obesity are higher in those with PCOS compared to those without. And in addition, excess body weight and body fat appear to increase the risk of not only developing PCOS and PCOS related symptoms, but also increasing the severity of those symptoms. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is when it comes to lifestyle-based treatments for both PCOS and weight management in general, exercise is at the top of the list. Now, recent studies show that individuals with PCOS tend to engage in similar levels of physical activity and exercise as those who don't have it. But the problem with that is most people are not meeting the current physical activity guidelines. Most people are not exercising. So when it comes to counseling individuals with PCOS on exercise, how do you start this conversation? I would argue that it doesn't differ too much from anyone. That's a perfect response. Yeah, that is my answer, is just that there's not a special treatment or a special approach or a special program that applies to patients who have been diagnosed with PCOS and that general health guidelines and general physical activity guidelines apply to this population as it does to anyone else. With the understanding that the prevalence of insulin resistance is quite a bit higher in this population and goes back to the conversation of expectation management and just acknowledging some things upfront, including the fact that achieving your weight loss goals can and usually are a bit more difficult and our timelines probably need to stretch out a bit more. But it's important to be encouraging and to not take those factoids as deterrence to getting started or to even moving in that direction. Yeah, yeah, this actually brings up a bigger, maybe we'll call it a barbell medicine point if I can be so bold. Well, because people invariably will say, look, I have this medical condition, what specific exercise prescription do I need to undertake? And in the majority, but not all, certainly not all, of cases, medical conditions, there's not really a unique secret sauce here when it comes to exercise prescription. It's generally the same as somebody who did not have that particular condition and PCOS is exactly like that. There's not a particular look, they need a particular split, particular amount of exercise or anything like that. We want people to first achieve this sort of minimum amount of exercise that's consistent with the current physical activity guidelines and generally speaking, more would be better. We effectively want people to be as active as humanly possible where the limitations are really logistics and then their physiological tolerance to exercise. The limit does not exist. The upper limit does not exist. But if there's anything that's unique about this particular situation with PCOS, to my mind, it's mostly that we can use some of these long-term risks that are associated with PCOS as leverage during motivational interviewing. And that also tends to bolster people's understanding of the condition. So for example, you mentioned insulin resistance and you're like, look, insulin resistance is associated with the condition that you have. It can lead to type two diabetes. It can lead to increased rates of heart disease. It can lead all these other things. Exercise is a very potent tool that we can use to limit that, attenuate that or even in some cases, reduce it back to what would be considered like baseline. baseline. Same thing, body image improvement. If that's a big issue with a particular patient, their mental health, there's just so many levers that you can pull. And again, these aren't really unique to PCOS because this would otherwise be true of anybody. But because it is pertinent to this condition, you could use that theoretically in this motivational interviewing process. But there's not a specific, I'm not gonna release a PCOS template. Like, look, here's the training that you need to do. It would more, if I did do something like that, if we collaborated and did something like that, it would look a lot like the rest of our exercise programs. We would just have more information about PCOS and how like, this would benefit you. And so that would be the template, but the template would it look really any different than a general template for strength conditioning that we'd release to the public? Absolutely. So buyer beware for that one. Yeah, that one's a great trick. Yeah, just for you. Yeah, if somebody's putting out stuff that's like, look, you gotta do this exercise, the PCOS patient. Like that's the red flag. If it's to lure people into this, get more physically active thing than maybe, I don't know that you need to use misinformation to get there, it seems a little sketch. So that's so good about that. Doesn't make me feel good, no warm and fuzzies from that. But maybe more important to this population with respect to exercise. Now there's little data available on exercise counseling and prescription practices delivered to individual PCOS. But if you go to other medical conditions, whether it's heart disease, whether it's individuals with obesity, whether it's diabetes, unfortunately, you see the exact opposite of what you would want to see from like a public health perspective. If anything, you'd want folks with these chronic medical conditions and risks to be counseled more frequently on exercise than folks who are otherwise healthy. Of course, you'd want everybody to be counseled, but if you had to choose, you would want folks who stand to benefit the most, the most vulnerable populations. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is do you think that exercise is being discussed with the majority of patients with PCOS? I do not. I absolutely do not. Why do you think that is? Do you think it's because this syndrome is so complex and to your point earlier, multiple sort of appointments and multiple, like a pretty extensive workup and there's a lot of comorbidities going on? Is it because of the complexity or is it because doctors, look, we just don't know anything about exercise and so we don't know what to do? I think it is twofold. I think that the thing one would be that there is so much to cover and there is so much on the interviewing and the exam side of the house that is gonna take up time so that you can find yourself in a diagnostically appropriate place to then recommend a way forward for working this patient up and then there is all the different interpretations and how do we apply meaning to these things? What does this mean to you? That by the time we get to treatments or interventions, we can be very well-passed to a normal appointment time. At that point and the plate is very clinically full. It's not a great excuse, but I suspect that it is a very common cause for that to be nixed. And the other thing is that we tend to avoid the things that we don't feel super competent in just as humans and that applies to physicians and healthcare providers as well. So that's thing too is just that if we are not trained or don't feel super savvy in what to tell a patient that is meaningful or actionable, don't feel super confident in that, then we're typically gonna skip over those things or leave them out or at the very most maybe provide a handout or a resource or something like that. That's not individualized or tailored to the patient. So I think it is both of those things synergizing to lead to that. So if you're a fitness professional, listen to this and you have a client with PCOS, standard exercise prescription techniques apply. What amount of exercise are they willing to do or can they do based on their previous or current fitness level and resources? What types of exercise do they wanna do? You come up with a shared sort of plan for how that all shakes out. And ideally that at least meets the current physical activity guidelines of twice weekly resistance training for all major muscle groups. And you're doing at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity. That's cardio, only counts as cardio. And that's where you start. And ideally you'd get them to do more and you'd monitor the results. Ideally you'd like a program that makes them stronger. Ideally you'd like them to be doing a program that makes them more fit from a cardio respiratory standpoint and you go from there. But there's no specific PCOS related concerns to ooh, don't have them do back squats because or don't have them do supersets because or something like that. That's, there's nothing really, really there. So you can feel confident in your exercise prescription techniques provided that you're actually doing it. And that message is to our healthcare professionals. Make sure that if you don't feel comfortable doing it, no hate comms, peace and love, but a referral would be appropriate in that case. I did wanna bring up something interesting. And I don't, I don't know that you're gonna have expertise here but I don't wanna like, you know, box you in. But this is, I thought this was interesting. It's about PCOS in sport. All right, so the proportion of women who engage in sports at all levels is at an all-time high. It's increased dramatically over the past 50 years. And this is reflected in the proportion of female Olympic athletes. This is probably one of the cohorts we have the most data in. So for example, in the summer Olympics in Munich in 1972, only 15% of all participants were women. In 2012, the London Summer Games, that increased to 44%, but it wasn't until this past Olympics, 2024 Paris Games that we finally reached the 50-50 thing. We're half of all competitors. Hey, finally. Thanks, good. Yeah, it's okay. Also, by the way, if you're keeping score at home, London 2012 was the first Olympic Games where women competed in all disciplines that men competed in. So just if you're keeping score at home about opportunities to participate in sport and how that may affect participation rates, well, there you go. Here's where it gets interesting. Amenorrhea and hyperandrogenism are far more common in female athletes than in non-athletic female populations. And in addition to that ultrasound evidence of polycystic ovaries are again far more prevalent, about 37% of female athletes, compared to the prevalence in the general population, which is about 20%. And so at the time of this recording, there's limited evidence comparing the true rate of PCOS in female athletes, but it does seem a bit higher. So in your opinion, Dr. Baraki, is it possible that there's an athletic advantage to having PCOS? Like is it the hyperandrogenism, for example, that may be advantageous or something else? Any insight there? I will acknowledge to your point that you're right, I am not an expert in this very specific question, not being boxed in, but I think that it's a very interesting finding. It is certainly hypothesis generating and it takes us back to questioning or just looking at the diagnostic criteria, looking at the Rotterdam criteria, to evaluate whether any of these individual components can be clinically reasonably explained by some other physiology or pathophysiology. And also kind of highlights the place that we find ourselves in that we have found ourselves in for decades now is basically like a chicken or the egg situation where is the insulin resistance leading to increased levels of LH, which is leading to ovulatory dysfunction and also just circling back to more insulin resistance and increase adipose and higher weight and obesity and cardiometabolic outcomes. Is that the cycle that we're in or are there offshoots of this equation that are operating with a completely different rule book? Which I have to believe that it may be more the latter, but it's certainly interesting query and worth further investigation to know, are we on the same continuum or are we so far down in a different branch entirely that we're just seeing similar findings but how we got there is quite different? Yeah, so I'm gonna present two hypotheses. Oh, okay. And you get to pick one. Okay, sounds great. With the full understanding that both could be wrong, to your point, I agree, more research needs to be done and ultimately this is a twud. It's a time wasted on useless detail, but like, could be used. Maybe, yeah, maybe not. Look, could be used as leverage during the motivational interviewing process for activity. Like, look, you got PCOS, you could be a world beater. Going to the very top. So here are the two hypotheses, right? Hypothesis number one, this is a teleological or evolutionary based argument for PCOS. Like, hey, why does this thing persist in populations? Why? What the heck's going on? So is it the relatively high testosterone had conferred some sort of survival advantage to women in ancestral environment?  amylodipines, because they had increased strength, reduced fracture risk, and maybe the insulin resistance was actually adaptive to ameliorate some of the signs of low energy availability, for example, because that can happen. So maybe this is like, look, it just persists and now our ancestral environment, the closest thing we can get to is sport and so women who are selected into sport, you know, they thrive. So that's hypothesis one. Sure, just to add a little bit more to hypothesis one, I have heard a semblance of that and there's also a layer of war and famine and this mortal threat and also tying that into fertility or relative infertility and basically being a manifestation of basically genetics getting it right and saying this is not a great time to reproduce. To reproduce exactly. All right, so that's hypothesis one called the evolutionary hypothesis and then the second hypothesis is the artifact hypothesis. So for example, amenorrhea being common is not surprising in sport due to the high volumes of intense training perhaps with insufficient fueling and the types of people that end up selecting themselves into sport and same thing for hyperandrogenism people with particularly women with high volumes of exercise and sport tend to have higher testosterone levels mainly in comparison to their levels of estrogen which tend to be lower right and so proportionately there's this hyperandrogenic type state and so maybe these are just artifacts of participating in sport for a long period of time at a high level with high levels of training and not sufficiently fueling because various body types, body compositions are selected for in sport and so you have to maintain that. So that's hypothesis too this artifact thing it's like we're seeing similar signs and maybe biochemical findings to PCOS but they're more reflective of the person's general practices in this case in sport but it's not PCOS. Sure, I of the two I certainly do find hypothesis number two to be more likely just based off of that energy equation imbalance if you want to call it that and how that affects the hypothalamus and how that's affecting downstream signaling to your ovaries and so on and so forth and how that manifests in not having a period for example as well as looking at individuals who for one reason or other typically a genetic predisposition to adapt very well to high levels of intense physical activity in the sport or that sport also tend to express more in the realm of a higher circulating androgens and and so it's just kind of happenstance exactly and then we see it or catch it so to speak because they're highly visible because they are performing at such a high level at such an elite level and so therefore presenting these artifacts that you mentioned. Yeah well look if you're listening to this you made it this far in the podcast and you got a hot take or even if it's a tepid take let us know weigh in comment you know helps the algorithm anyway but we want to know is it takes only is it evolution or is it artifact maybe or or option c neither and your bunch of idiots and move on fair fair all right so that's the exercise that's the story on exercise we want everybody who is able to exercise to exercise and that certainly includes individual individuals with PCOS trying to get them to not only meet the physical activity guidelines but to more than that if possible and no specific exercise considerations other than starting and maintaining that those are the real considerations here now moving on to dietary interventions so similar to exercise and its effects on PCOS related health risks dietary interventions are also heavily promoted in nearly all PCOS guidelines now despite individuals with PCOS having a higher prevalence of obesity most evidence shows that women with PCOS have comparable total energy and macronutrient intakes as individuals without PCOS now despite that it is unfortunate that there's a widespread misinformation campaign and promotion of specific dietary compositions that are designed to treat PCOS particularly on social media most of these lacking evidence and in fact if you go to the evidence you'll see that there's a wide range of macronutrient compositions and dietary patterns that can be used to improve health and quality of life in individuals with PCOS so the question to you Dr. Baraki is how do you discuss changing nutrition with your PCOS patients and is there any difference in how you would approach that conversation with any other type of patient yeah this answer does mirror the exercise answer a lot but just like with exercise if we're starting out with nothing then we want to trend towards something and ultimately get to a place where we are meeting and ultimately exceeding the movement guidelines and recommendations so when it comes to diet like you said there isn't a single PCOS diet it has been queried time and time again it's been looked at and folks certainly want to promote and usually sell some kind of diet that they've slapped PCOS onto but the reality is is that at this time we don't have compelling evidence that tells me that there is a unique composition like macronutrient composition or micronutrient composition in the diet of someone who has PCOS that will be more effective at healthy weight loss or optimizing anything else under the hood so to speak that's going to impact their symptoms there are some investigations and some recommendations based off of not great data of some supplements talking about things like chromium and acetal things like that which and particularly in acetal the thought being that it can help to improve sensitivity insulin sensitivity specifically there there are a few things like that that pose a very low potential for harm and might demonstrate a marginal response so far there's not an overwhelmingly you know compelling response that tells me that anyone that has PCOS needs to be supplementing with x, y, or z at this time and so essentially my discussion with someone with PCOS is the same discussion as someone without PCOS that's in my office for something else but also has obesity and we're talking about some strategies to to increase fiber intake to identify and ultimately decrease saturated fats in their diets and increase mono and saturated fats and just look at the overall balance between their macronutrients but not to say that there is like a perfect recipe for PCOS specifically yeah a large variety of dietary interventions are going to work here and they've been studied almost to the nth degree you know whether it's very low calorie diet low calorie diet very low carb ketogenic high carb but it's all it's all there it's all been studied and yeah there's no one diet to rule them all mainly you would want to involve the patient whatever their preferences are for a dietary pattern what they have access to and it focused on minimally processed foods lean proteins fruits vegetables whole grains high fiber you know limiting foods with added sugars especially sugar sweetened beverages the standard dietary pattern recommendations to the extent somebody can do that modifying the food environment eating environments and we've discussed at length on this podcast however i'm gonna i'm gonna push back just a little bit on what both of us have said so talking out of both sides of my mouth there are in my mind to my mind three maybe unique concerns with respect to the diet for a person with PCOS the first one being that there are generally speaking higher rates of disordered eating amongst individuals with PCOS and so that may deserve its own particular not only work up but subsequent management by a specialist a registered dietitian who has expertise in this and you may not pick that up initially especially if you're not listening to the patient so ideally you're you're listening to women yeah again the second thing i would bring up is that there does tend to be a lower baseline dietary quality in those with PCOS now this doesn't really affect management because when we talk about dietary quality and how it's measured these are just standard indices a healthy eating index for example is one of them and so your recommendations don't really change it's just a a maybe a bigger gap to go from your average PCOS patient compared to somebody without but again it doesn't really change what you prescribe or what you recommend but more so like how much effort it may take to get there and there are multiple contributors to that you know why that is in the first place and the third thing perhaps the most actionable thing here with respect to dietary interventions for PCOS to my mind is this idea around chrono nutrition but this isn't PCOS specific it's more like insulin resistance specific and so individuals with insulin resistance whether it's uh you know the run of the i hate to call it run of the mill but it kind of is like type 2 diabetes something like that metabolic syndrome or in this case PCOS there does seem to be a benefit to time restricted feeding but not what most people think about when I say those words when I say time restricted feeding people jump to intermittent fasting and then the way most people think about intermittent fasting is that oh you skip breakfast and then you have a big lunch you're eating windows like 1 pm to 9 pm right you just eat throughout the rest of the day and that's how you do it and there's been a bunch of weird mechanisms that people propose look you you're fasting autophagy in the beginning of the day and ultimately the way that works as far to the extent that it does is that it gives people less opportunity to eat if they follow it and so calorie restriction but in this particular case time restricted feeding is flipped the incomplete other way where most of the calories are consumed earlier in the day less later in the day and it seems like there's some circadian rhythm some bio rhythm related processes that this helps regulate a little bit better in individuals with metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance and so if you were trying to like ratchet things up to the nth degree person's already eating a health promoting dietary pattern they're exercising like crazy and they're like what else can I do lifestyle wise you could suggest hey look if dinner is your biggest meal of the day right perhaps if you flip that on its head where breakfast is a bigger meal lunch is a bigger meal and dinner is a little bit less that may work a little bit better in this particular setting um caveats to that include if somebody's working out at night that's all off the table like just doesn't doesn't seem to matter and the effect of doing this is not like crazy big where it's gonna completely change somebody's life but if somebody was looking to pull every possible lever that is maybe a unique consideration for an individual with PCOS sure okay all right no disagreement I love that let's do it yeah well the final anything anything we can add to the old toolbox yeah there you go yeah you have uh more arrows in your quiver uh yeah we went Renaissance fair on that the last thing I wanted to talk about here were actual treatments for PCOS with respect to like medical management and perhaps even surgical interventions and so you know if you go look online and you have access to to some of the professional materials you'll see different groups or categories of of medications so everything from contraception androgen blockers certain metabolic uh uh care type medications like metformin for example things related to pregnancy and fertility um and so just briefly can you give us a general lay of the land when you have a patient that you have diagnosed with PCOS you've gone through the whole work up um when you start thinking about our medical management where do you start and what are some common things that you end up uh using in these patients yeah so before I invariably end up with my foot in my mouth and start talking about a particular treatment strategy or a path if you will I always always always try to remember to get their goals written down upfront um because I can counsel and counsel and counsel until I'm blue in the face and and whatever I've counseled them on is just not consistent or not compatible with what their goal is and we just waste it a lot of time and so um so super important to not only ask the individual what are the things that concern you the most and what are your goals and so particularly if they're not sure what kind of goals I'm referring to I will then specify um do you want to become pregnant um in the near term um or would you say that your primary goal is to regulate your menstrual bleeding if that is one of their presenting um concerns is irregular bleeding or absent menses for long periods of time because that's going to take us down to very different pathways because if I'm talking about regulating menstrual cycles it will involve some form of a recommendation for a hormonal contraceptive it's going to be mainstay being oral birth control pills doesn't have to be that and I can explain some of the the the differences there but obviously if we are addressing your bleeding it's going to be with something that prevents pregnancy usually and if your goal is to become pregnant then we need to go in a different direction entirely um with regard to um hormonal birth control I mentioned the oral form specifically um and that's going to be the mainstay for that individual that has um clinical signs and features of hyperandrogenism um that have the acne oily skin perhaps herstism um as well as irregular bleeding patterns um from that ovulatory dysfunction um the thought being that if you take the pill that has a synthetic estrogen in this case um ethanol estradiol combined with a uh progestin um then we are seeking to uh have that pill be processed like at the level of your liver and once um it is um absorbed and processed there then you are ultimately going to produce more sex binding uh sex hormone binding globulin you can think of that as um something that is produced by the liver that circulates in your blood and that will grab up any free testosterone circulating endrogens and it will bind to them and when those things are bound then they don't have the opportunity to uh bounce around the rest of your body and to have some of those outward effects that you see such as the acne the oily skin the herstism and whatnot um and so if you go with a birth control option that is not ingested then you are not necessarily going to get that benefit but you do have other approaches to trying to control um the disordered bleeding patterns and so that could be with a vaginal ring that can be with a patch um if there is a reason that an individual can't or shouldn't have estrogen there are progesterone only options as well that would include a pill it could include um an intrauterine um system such as a marina iud as well as an implant in your arm um and then finally the option for an injection which is the depoprovera yeah and so you move to like androgen blockers afterwards most common androgen related features of the pcs being like your suit is a acne female pattern uh androgen related pattern hair loss um and so like spironolactone or aldactone is like one of the mainstays here it inhibits ovarian and adrenal steroidogenesis so just making the the sexteroids and other various pathways are like a ton of different mechanisms of action yeah um and that's standby there's also flutamide i think but i don't know how widely used that is the only thing to add about spironolactone i'll let you talk about it some more if there's other concerns but this is a banned substance in tested sports and so um you need a therapeutic use exemption and so each organization um that follows wada uh or usada in the united states has a tue therapeutic use exemption form that you would need your physician to help you uh fill out and submit so that way you know you wouldn't want somebody who was uh diagnosed with with something started on a treatment to go to a competition right the recreational powerlifting meat they get drug tests and oh you're banned because you're taking spironolactone it can be a it's a diuretic not great one but what a bummer yeah and a and a masking agent so they're like look it's banned so you need this tue but yeah that's what i think about androgen blockers and pcs i think about spironolactone and i start thinking about other medications for maybe a hair loss like finasteride for example how often are those being uh prescribed in in practice uh the finasteride not very much the spironolactone i would say that gynecologists are much more comfortable and more commonly prescribing that and that would be usually in in series so first step would be to try the the oral birth control pill and typically after about three to six months wanting to reassess um symptoms and if there hasn't been really any movement or improvement in in some symptoms specifically um hercetism um then you can consider adding on spironolactone at that time to use both of those agents to address those symptoms um and then further down this pathway is the option to consult with dermatology as well um to talk about other management options for excess hair growth for those patients that do suffer with hercetism yeah uh and then you move along there's like some metabolic concerns so metformins commonly uh prescribed in in pcs is that something you guys are still doing or is that you're getting a little a little uh standoffish when it comes to metformin oh well it's not uh it's not standoffish due to any specific harm i would say other than pretty common gi side effects but the the fact is that um we've had some pretty reasonable theories and hypothesis over time they've been studied they're at this time there is not compelling evidence that um that would indicate that the addition of metformin to your treatment strategy or metformin alone um is particularly effective for regulating ovulatory dysfunction for improving fertility outcomes or for reducing um some of these hyper angiogenic symptoms um and so it has mostly fallen out of favor um you'll see that um folks of our generation and then slightly older um will just knee jerk like reflexively still be tacking this on to um the treatment plan for anyone with pcs metformin contraception let's go yeah exactly as the combo um but um but individuals who are staying a little bit closer to the evidence and really scrutinizing and over time saying is this uh actually doing anything for us um at most for all of those different dimensions that i mentioned um may have a very very very modest impact but um should not be considered a mainstay really these days yeah that's the same thing uh like when i was doing my reading on an anositol anositol being that it's a sugar alcohol uh plays a role in insulin signaling you do make it and you obviously can ingest it and can supplement it um there's some thought that it improves insulin sensitivity and some other uh you know glucose uptake by the cells and a bunch of other stuff and there is some i don't want to call it defectiveness but there's a change in the anositol pathway in individual pcos um and so look hey let's supplement you can take it may help problem is is it's expensive uh thing one thing two supplements generally speaking are poorly regulated and then three the effects are relatively modest and so like my interpretation of this as a non ob gyn is that it's like look if this was a slam dunk this thing works and does a great job at it you guys would be like take an anositol and oh by the way like maybe there's some a pharmaceutical grade one similar to like like fish oil well there's uh lavasa there are other options that are prescription grade um but that's not really the case and so my interpretation tell me if you agree is that look if somebody wants to take an anositol they have pcos um they want to take it they had a discussion with their physician that they're all behind it find a brand that is third party tested it's all it's going to be on the label is gmp accredited you can either search it or it should be on the label and you know again setting the expectation that it's not going to set the world on fire but maybe uh potential benefit is that how you kind of see this on this stuff frame bomb i agree we concur all right fair enough yes doctor we fair enough we concur the other two components i was thinking about with metabolic care had to do with anti-obesity medications and and unfortunately you alluded to this earlier there's not really great data on uh you know the newer agents uh semaglutide for example terzepotide and there are going to be other ones coming down the pike most the data is on exenotide with a very old drug loraglutide a very old drug uh and uh you know fentramine topiramate though that data does exist and it's mostly for treating obesity um that's uh can be associated with uh pc us and individuals with pc us who also have obesity so it's more like a weight management thing versus like right let's look at the pc os specific outcomes fertility and ovulation whatever now can weight loss five ten five ten percent which is very consistent uh with these drugs and sometimes they do they do much more than that you would predict that that would be helpful but unfortunately we don't really have good evidence uh on that and in particular around like conception infertility like that's a even more i think it's a matter of time though with how the tides are have turned recently and just the direction that we're going i think it's a matter of time if and it's a big if if research dollars are allocated to find it uh an important enough query to fund and to ultimately study yeah but i think that it's a matter of time okay uh that's the same thing i mean metabolic bariatric surgery is also like it's not that it's new right but in this field it's it's relatively under research there are some studies on uh individuals with pc us undergoing metabolic bariatric surgery and effectively all of the we'll call it excess adiposity related concerns of the condition tend to get better so cardiovascular risk because blood pressure tends to normalize insulin resistance tends to get much much better here satism tends to improve sure but uh this doesn't appear to be like a mainstay in treatment and i don't know if there's just like a disconnect between like obesity management and pc us management or if there's more of this concern related to women where it's like well i don't know these are reproductive age females mostly we don't want to surgeries them prior to conceiving i don't know what's your take on that i don't know that um well there's there's lots of uh hot takes and opinions um as to why there is not better integrated um considerations for conditions that only affect women um in greater health questions and concerns different podcasts but i will say like on the ground i i don't feel that necessarily like within myself and my colleagues and in the spaces that i practice um i don't think that there is a concern for um precluding these treatment strategies for women because of their reproductive potential i don't see that at all and certainly not the way that i practice um and so it comes back to what their goals are and whether or not that includes fertility and what that timeline looks like and how we optimize things um from here to there yeah i would just i was unable to find any evidence on this for example how many uh individuals with pc os um are being their obesity is being managed using current evidence which would include either pharmaceutical interventions and or metabolic bariatric surgery early uh sort of like referral for a a surgeon's opinion on the hey are you a good candidate for this or not i couldn't find any evidence on that but my suspicion is that it's really low i mean it's low in general like it's underutilized people talk about metabolic bariatric surgery like oh too many people are getting surgeries they're getting this the you know the lap and the just to make your stomach smaller make your gut smaller like well that's not really why we're how it works we talked about that in our podcast on metabolic and bariatric surgery but overall it's underutilized right now i assume it's even more underutilized in patients with pc os yes i would i would agree and um just to kind of add that onto that clinical plate we were referring to earlier um and and then thinking about the clinicians um prowess and they're like they're bandwidth essentially to navigate all these different topics is exactly the reason why um this particular problem set or these particular symptoms and this particular um syndrome is something that i capture in a very comprehensive template that i use in the clinic in my documentation it serves as a great reminder to help queue me to cover um all this variety of um uh risk identification and counseling topics um and as reminders to say hey don't don't leave this out don't leave out that physical activity um motivational discussion with the patient and don't forget to acknowledge whether this is someone who would be a candidate for weight loss medications or metabolic bariatric surgery um so you protocolize it for yourself you put in a checklist and it can cue you to um to make it a part of the regular conversation that you're having and the more and more we have these conversations too um hopefully that leads to continuing to reduce stigma around this topic as well um and ultimately just in the name of trying to do what's right for the patient and really set them up for success the old checklist manifesto love love to yeah shout out to hear it yeah last thing i wanted to get you to talk about where we wrap this up is about fertility related treatments so you have a person who you've diagnosed with PCOS you're managing all of these other constellation of potential risk factors and long-term health sequelae um and they desire pregnancy and there are the laundry list of different agents and interventions that can be used whether it's clomaphen, letrosol, gonadotropin, etc um can you just give us like a two or three minute summary of like how your brain is operating in that space and like how you communicate that to the patient sure so uh before getting even to the treatment part um i always want to remember remind myself that someone who's been identified as having PCOS is not someone who needs to reach a 12 month of actively trying to conceive without a pregnancy criteria for that infertility criteria before you're moving forward with a general fertility evaluation um and starting to counsel them on some treatment strategies so this is going to be someone that we are moving forward with those things probably more like at the six month mark because they you can have someone in PCOS wait 12 months but the reality is the rate of pregnancy is going to be lower especially if they have that oligo or an ovulation if there's not an opportunity for um that egg to have that handshake with the stork then we're going to find ourselves in the same place but just like kicking the can down the road essentially so just keeping that in mind um to uh to go down this path a little bit sooner um and after completing a workup for female and male infertility um then we are at this point looking at offering letrosol um and rheumatase inhibitor um you mentioned clomaphen and um that is uh old and and very widely used medication it's been looked at head to head um in a variety of studies and where we are now with the body of research um is just that patients with PCOS the preferred agent is letrosol um they um can receive this from a general gynecologist not necessarily from an infertility specialist um and they can take this medication um during specific days in their menstrual cycle um that would typically  ably-be-within-the-first-half. It's gonna be for five days that they take it, usually starting on day two or day three. And if they are someone who does not have regular cycles, say they are anabulatory, they can do something that's called a quick start, so they just take it anytime, regardless of where they may be, because the truth is, we're not sure where they are, because they haven't had a period, which means has ablation happened, when was the last time it happened? Not sure, but this romatase inhibitor is intended to induce ovulation, so this strategy is called ovulation induction. And there's a variety of ways to also test if they take that medication at the first part of that cycle or a quick start, approximately 10 to 14 days later, depending on whether or not they are cycling normally, when an LH surge would potentially lead to an ovulation event and the opportunity to become pregnant. You can do ultrasounds that can verify whether someone has abulated, you can test a progesterone in what should be the medleodial phase of the cycle, or you can just wait and see, because if they go on to have a period, if they bleed, if pregnancy does not occur, then at least we know, okay, that did induce ovulation, because the period is something that we also call like a withdrawal bleed, because ovulation happened, a pregnancy did not occur, and then we're kind of wiping slate starting over. And so that is just like a very rough summary of what this medication is, how it works when you take it, and what should happen afterwards. This is something that can be prescribed for three to six cycles consecutively, and if pregnancy does not occur, then referral to a fertility specialist is absolutely an option at that point. Yeah, no good summary. Well, I appreciate your time on this. We've talked, I would argue not long enough about PCOS, but I also understand the attention span in the podcast universe, if perhaps if we normally had four hour podcasts, we could keep it going. But I think just to summarize briefly, PCOS is a complex medical syndrome, the diagnostic workup is complex, the patient care, it's all complex, and you would really be best served by having an individual like Dr. Baraki in your corner, who is coordinating all of these moving parts here. It's not just one thing, and there's no weird trick that I can sell you, or she can sell you, or anyone can sell you. And so I've listed a ton of resources in the show notes for you, and also Dr. Baraki's gonna be doing some work here with Barbel Medicine with respect to women specific consultations and such. So if you're an individual with PCOS and you want some more hands-on care, you can contact us support at barbelmedicine.com. Dr. Baraki, is there anything you wanna leave the audience with? I know I've taken up too much of your time, but if there was a parting shot here, if you chance. No, I turn, I'll echo what you said. Yes, complex, this, complex, yes, it's complex, but it's not insurmountable, and it's not impossible to overcome and to optimize and to reach a healthful place in your life if this is something that affects you. I like that. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbel Medicine PCOS podcast. Now, before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. A special shout out to Dr. Lorraine Baraki, the most handsome doctor in North America for joining us here, and we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbel Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Powerlifter Competes in Strongman. I REALLY Messed Up on a few of these events. [H5WW6SKlzG0].txt ===

My name is Jordan Faganbaum, I'm the creator of Barbel Medicine and I'm going to do a strong man competition. Yeah, so I normally compete in powerlifting, I just did powerlifting me two weeks ago, never had done a strong man competition or anything like this before. I don't know, I had this competitive bug where I was like, I want to compete in powerlifting again and I want to compete in strong man. And I'd been wanting to do a strong man meat for a while just because the events look fun, you get to display your strength in different ways, it looks like it's a fun thing to watch for the crowd and I don't know the idea of doing these different types of strength displays. It seems fun. You get to do axle bar deadlifts and clen and press and pull a truck like that all seems cool and I don't know, I just finished it and try and it. I've never trened any strong man stuff before actually, which is interesting because I used to tren at this gym, brute strength gym in Norfolk, Virginia and I was in medical school and they had all of the strong man stuff there. They had everything from like finger fingers to the appallants wheel to a Hussophel stone. They had regular stones, yolks and farmers walk handles and framed heres and a car deadlift and IMean literally everything but I didn't touch any of that stuff. I think in fact one time at the gym some of the guys were goading me into do like a car deadlift and I don't know. Because they knew I was like decent polar. They were like yeah, you know, I'm fighting about going and do this car deadlift and luckily no video exists from that because it was not a good display of my strength. But I literally have never done a joke, never have done stones or anything like that up until two weeks ago when I started trening for the strong man meat. Yeah, so a parallel thing that like said two weeks ago and then since then basically got right back on the horse and started trening. So I had to meet on Sunday and then Tuesday we went to Chicago and I started trening again. IMean, it's still been squatted and deadlifting but I have been squatting with the yoke, the yoke attachments if I can find them and I've been doing more reps because I'm trying to build some capacity to walk with this heavy yoke. So I've been basically working up to heavy set of five and then doing some sets of ten for back off work and then all the pressing work I've been doing with has been mostly with an axle. I think I've bench pressed once in the last two weeks, something like that and then everything else has been either axle press or axle clening press or something like that. And I've used the flip all bar Swiss bar to bench press once and then for my deadlift trening I've just been doing deadlifts with the axle if I can get one to play on. If not, I've been just deadlifting for high reps on the regular barbell because it's Amrap deadlift in a minute. So just kind of trying to build some capacity there. But yeah, how it basically has been working is just one or two, you know, couldnt go big lifts, so it would be like squat with the yoke attachments or yoke bar or something like that and then axle press and then I would do some event specific work like farmers walk or yoke yoke walks or actually don't know if they call them that. This is just what I call them. So over a heavy sled push and pull medley, something like that. So it's basically how I've been trening for the last two weeks. IMean, obviously it'd be nice to have more time to tren. It just hasn't worked out like that. Oh yeah, okay, so event-wise there's a max deadlift. I think it's 500 pounds for the lightweight men. I'm going to be at the 200 pound class. Although they did just combine it. It's like under 231, so I'm not going to cut. I'm just going to go weigh in at like 202 or 205 or whatever. I end up being into the middle of the day, so I'm going to eat normally and then just weigh in because it doesn't matter. But yes, so there's an Amrap deadlift at 500 pounds using an axle bar. And I asked Alan, I was like, why are you guys using the axle? You know, if it's from the floor, like what's the deal? He's like, yeah, so the bar doesn't give it all, like a normal bar belt would and then the plates don't roll. So, and obviously the thing is thicker, so it's a little bit forward. I was like, IMean, weird flex, but okay, Alan. So it's one minute as many reps as possible, so it's at 500. I feel pretty confident about that because deadlifts. So I think the last time, I've been, I've trened this a few times over the past two weeks. 525 for a set of 10, like an 8 and then I did 500 for 12 at an 8. And yeah, some pretty confident about that one, it should be okay. Although I wonder if they allow you to like, touch and go, because I don't know how to do that. IMean, not efficiently anyway, so we'll see how that goes. And then the second event is a clen and press. I think most people are going to be continental clening pressing, and I don't know how to do that. So I'm just going to like muscle clen it and then strict press it because I'm pretty efficient. If that's I did 260, 255 and 260 have done that in the last two weeks and Allencing to think that'd be pretty competitive. So so then they have a yoke and farmers walk medley, so it's 700 pounds on the yoke and then 300 pounds in each hand on the farmers walk. So the first time I did the yoke was three days after my meat, uh, and I was in Chicago, and I loaded it up to 600 pounds and that felt fine. And then the next time I did it was two days after that, uh, in Chicago, Alan was there, and I loaded it to 700 pounds and that felt terrible. I think the yoke was too high and my stance was too narrow and whatever and I don't know what I'm doing. So that just it felt bad. And so that was my, those were my two times, um, you know, being exposed to the yoke, basically just like walking school hot, so there's something like that. But heavy, uh, so we'll see how that goes. I've been able to practice on the farmers handles a few times, so I'm more confident in that, although I guess it's going to depend on which farmers handles they use. So I just I bought a pair from rogue, which seemed fine. And, um, yeah, it's hard to hold onto 300 plus pounds in each hand, but I've been doing it. So, uh, I feel okay about that. The next one, the stones, uh, I've touched stones once in my life. Alan was there, and, uh, there's definitely some skill to it, and then I just don't know what I'm doing. Um, but I can pick the stones up pretty well. Uh, it's just figuring out how to like, readjust and get it over the, over the bar. Uh, and I guess you, we have to carry them, too. So I'm not very confident about that, just given the fact that I'm only going to want's. And then, uh, the last event, I think is the truck pole push medley, which seems pretty self explanatory. Uh, I've been just pushing and pulling a heavy sled to try to get ready for that. So we'll see in my cardio is, you know, reasonably good. Uh, so overall, I feel pretty confident. I don't have no idea what to expect competition-wise, and I have no idea, like how the flow of the meat's going to go. So we'll see how all that shakes out. Uh, it should be a good time though. And, uh, I don't know, I'm pretty competitive guy. So, let's see if I can sneak in there for maybe a podium or something like that. Also my favorite thing so far. Uh, I don't know. Honestly, probably the, the farmer's handles have been like the most quote unquote fun at just because like, I don't know, you feel like more athletic, just carrying something really, really heavy and it's hard. And I don't know, it's like cool, because you get to use a lot of weight. I like that. Uh, the yoke has been the least fun. And I know it just said it's cool to like do this thing with a lot of weight or whatever in the yokes even heavier, but it's just so uncomfortable. And I know that sounds like whatever it excuse. I just, it's really uncomfortable. And I think the learning process for that maybe is a little longer than farmer, so at least for me. So, uh, but yeah, that and the stones are cool. And I don't know, I just think it's going to be fun to go out there and do something different. And, uh, so if we can, uh, see if we can put in a good result. If you're not using a new iron mind straps that I just got, they're not paying you say these. I love their straps. I have their so easy straps that I normally use, prepare a lifting for a lot of supplemental pulls when I need them. But these are the longer ones for straw man, which are handy for the accident. So I got to check out those water bottle, action probably gonna wear my deadlift shoes. Certainly on the accident deadlift. And probably on the farmers walk and yoke medley. I'll probably wear my Olympic shoes for the clen press and the stones. And then I'll probably wear these things. These are just like mechons, whatever for the truck pull push. I don't love those shoes. I'm just saying, I don't love them. I probably wouldn't tren them, uh, although I did pull 500 for 10 in them and I never find. And I think I pulled 5, 15 for 10 in 2 and they're also fine, you know, but that's still, I don't love these shoes for just like general trening. I was trying to push it heavy, heavy and the shoe kept coming off. And I had these things like cinch down. Like the heel kept coming off. Not, not certainly comfortable. Uh, let's see, pair X. This YouTube video has been sponsored by pair X. I guess some kind of wood. But yeah, just some caffeine. Uh, to use that, you get my Olympic shoes, watches, whatever, and cool, short of loads. This is in here. I'm going to bring my wrist straps, even though I don't think I'm going to use them for anything. But if I do want to use them on the clener press, I haven't been using them, but maybe I won't just in case. I have all these, uh, uh, uh, don't see it all, bringing these knees sleeves, probably these just in case. I have one among the, uh, or farmers, which I, IMight. Um, but, uh, you know, balance, that's a good idea. But yeah, almost brain just in case. That's the other stuff. Okay. Yeah. So these are the, the row straps that I bought, because I thought they were going to be long enough to use on the axle. They're like one inch short. So I'm not going to bring those out. And then these are my normal straps, so easy. Once for my reminder, I probably had these for like five or six years. I'm not going to bring them, because I don't get a strong enough comp, but these are my favorite straps. Also, and I think has the same ones, but they make a longer version. There's like one or two inches longer, and I think he's got that. This had a spin of my fan, I think. It's probably a thing to put it in the belt, ammonia, baby powder. Yeah, I'm probably not. I don't know if I've been bringing this. I think balance got tacky for me, I didn't buy my own, but what are these? Oh, just socks. Do those in there? Yeah, I'm like most of my life is very unorganized. Oh, I brought a spare change of clothes. I still have a similar. And my meat shirt, I think those things fall in need of your wash. What do you guys think? This is gross. So, headphones, chaps to great. Well, I'll get packed up, get ready to go, and the blast off in the morning. I'll go see Alan. I'll put on tape straight. All right, made it to the venue, rep in the old vintage barbell medicine shirt. Getting ready for rules briefing and first event, things to axle deadlift. So, I'll talk to about that. First, I'm in me. Let's do it. And I fell in a corkerance when I was a kid. And still I can a girl芝ifi on short barbell medicine shirt popping up. I'm gonna get up and start getting through I'm gonna get up and start getting through I'm feeling cold I can't wait to hear the melody go I'm gonna go into the beat I'm gonna go into the beat I'm gonna get up and start getting through I'm gonna go into the beat I'm gonna go into the beat I'm gonna drop that stuff. I'm gonna drop that stuff. I'm gonna drop him with a bear. What happened there, Jordan? Not strong enough. Yeah, the yolk just, IMean, as the third time I've ever touched the yolk. So, I'm gonna drop you again. Four, four, four. So I think, IMean, you saw like, the first two, like, it's not knowing what to do. I was just, I was just, I was just, I was just, I was like, oh, I figured it out. I almost made the whole pass and a farmer thought I was tired. And retrospective? How would I have done more, you? I'm saying you're under a tren. I'm saying, for this specific type of strength, I'm under tren. Can I change my clothes? Touch me. Oh, my clothes... Oh, my clothes... There she is. Here you go. There he is. There he is. There he is. There he is. Where are you going? There's my hot plan. There he is. There he is. There he is. There he is.osse- roast and Yeah, when you were like, we're taking, we're taking. Yeah, remember when we were, yeah, we were like Steve, I said you were just going to sweat. I was like, pick it up and it was like, yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's a job dude. It's like a deadlift bar with stones. Yeah. Yeah. I'm really, really. Yeah. Yeah. I'm really, really. Yeah. Go. I'm really, really, really. I'm really glad to be here. I'm really glad to be here. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. We're going to get this backpack, and we're going to get this backpack. I'm really glad to be here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm really glad to be here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a good, a good, a good, a good, a good. I'm here! I'm the winner! I'm going! Let's go! Come on! I'm going! Come on! You go! Come on! You go! You should sit. Hey, you're out! Hey, we did do it, go, go, go! Can you do it with a coaching? She's like... She's like... Yeah, literally I was like... Trying to dig in? Yeah. Like the MX. Slip it. I wanted to shine up. You're pushing with the tires straight. Super man, bro. Yeah. Alright, so that was my first strong man competition. I had a ton of fun, all the events werecompletely different than anything I had done before. And I had a blast. Things I would do differently. I would tren actually for strong man competitions, been a longer amount of time preparing, doing the specific events. Mainly just to improve my skill set with respect to doing those actual movements. The actual deadlift obviously was fine because it's deadlift. But the clen and press even I would have preferred to learn how to do the continental clen and press. So my best strict press of all time is 295 pounds. But if I have to muscle clen it and then press it, especially with an axle of the best I've ever done. It's 260 which was a week prior to the meat. The issue was this particular bar was like smoothly machined. It wasn't like chrome or polished or anything like that. But it was just very, very smooth compared to the textured rogue bar that I had bought and practiced with. So ultimately I would have liked to learn the continental clen and press because I think that I could do a lot better. I would have liked to have known the rules a little bit more clearly on the axle clen and press as far as how they do tie breakers. So in my mind it was like a powerlifting me where you could just do you know you have your three attempts and whoever's got the heaviest weight at the end of the three attempts is the winner. If there's a tie they go on body weight or just everyone gets the same amount of points. In strong man it the tie is broken by who opened heavier. So I opened at 180 just because I wanted to take all three attempts and my plan was go from 180 to 220. Then if you 20 felt great I was going to go to 260 because they were taking 20 pound jumps but I felt pretty confident on my press 220 felt okay but the texture of the bar. I just didn't feel confident being able to muscle clen 260. So even though a lot of us tied at 240 I lost the tie breaker which is why I got fifth in that event. How I opened at 220 I would have actually taken second or third in that event and won the overall for the lightweight men's division. So I wish I would have known that rule and I wish I would have learned how to do the continental clen press. The yolk in farmers carry medley actually went way better than planned. I got second in that event. I would have liked to have practiced more on the yolk so that way I didn't drop it so many times so that I could have a fair shake at doing the farmers carry. Because I think I could have done better on that had I had an opportunity to drop it more than once. I just needed to get my grip set and that didn't do a good job of that. The stones actually went better than planned because I've only touched stones once before and so being able to carry and then load 240 was pretty good for me. The last stone I was actually surprised that I couldn't pick it up. Yeah, I decided to use medical tape around my forearm because I was told that that would help with the tacky that was already on the stones and from the other competitors. And then I would like that. However, my forearms got sweaty and the things just slid down. I wish I wouldn't have used them because every time I tried to pick up that last stone it was just kind of like pulling down. So that was a mistake and I would have obviously liked to practice with the stones more but I was just really surprised to not be able to pick it up because I picked up a heavier stone than that before with no tacky, nothing. I just yeah the medical tape was just sliding on there. And then on the truck pull and push that actually went really well. I don't think that I could have prepared any better for that. I did well on that. The shoes that I had those Nike Metcon flying it, whatever the heck they are. Nike's definitely not paying me to say this because I do not like those shoes. Even for other sort of general trening, you know, just for like a trening sneaker. I think they're much better options. I prefer the Metcon one or Metcon two if I have to stick with it Nike or the innolvates. Those are like my preferred sort of just general trening shoe. If I'm not going to wear weightlifting shoe or something like that or deadless specific shoe. At the meat at this competition, I probably should just want my deadlifts shoes. They're a little stickier. Those Nike's were like just sliding all over the place. And my heel was trying to come out of the thing even though they're the correct size. And I had them cinched down and it's not the first time I've had that problem. I just thought that they needed to break in but yeah, the not my favorite not my favorite shoes. But getting second on that event and second overall, I, you know, can't be unhappy with how I did and I had an absolute blast. So I want to thank Alan Throll and Robert Striehan for putting this meat on the untamed strength. And Sacramento, it was great. I'll probably do another one maybe some time early next year. But before then, I have to move to San Diego and actually a parallel thing to me coming up in October that's in San Diego. So that's going to be a good time. Hopefully a full meat prep can help me pee on my total and all my lifts. That would be a good day for me. And so I'm looking forward to that. But as always, thank you so much for watching the Bartle Medicine YouTube channel. We bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning. I'm Dr. Jordan Faganbaum. If you dug the video, make sure to leave a comment below, hit like, subscribe for all the latest content. Share it with your friends. See you guys next time. For a cameraman, what I do is fuckinGHis life. How the hype teams? That's what I do. Yeah, and hype team. Thank you guys for coming out. This is chocolate. Free bucket to cocaine. Oh, this is for the ladies right here. Thank you.

=== FILE: Quadriceps & Patellar Tendinopathy： Choosing the Right Entry Point for Barbell Athletes [dhrbIW_S9HU].txt ===

 naringin. What equipment do they have access to? What are their goals? And what things provoke that specific pain along their knees? So we're talking quadriceps tendon or patellar tendon. And the things I'm looking forward to find an entry point, obviously once I have their training history in place, I'm trying to find out where that loading threshold is for them. Let's use a squat, for example. Let's say they're typically, when they're in their first few warm-up sets, they experience a lot of symptoms. It might get a little bit better, and then they reach, let's say like it's 80% of their max, and that's where they really start to feel that sharp pain in the bottom of the squat along that tendon. What I may do to establish an entry point, I will likely keep the same squatting frequency. I might have them warm up with something like a leg extension, slow and controlled, somewhere in that 10 to 15 rep range, maybe like two or three seconds on the way up, two to three seconds on the way down, to help warm that tendon up and to achieve that warm-up effect before they get underneath the barbell. If they're having a lot of issues with their squat, with the knees coming forward, I might switch them to a box squat on one of their days and limit how much their knee is traveling forward, which will offload that tendon a little bit. It might feel a little bit more comfortable, but they're still able to get a good training stimulus. So they're focused on setting back, keeping a more vertical shin angle. Another strategy on top of that is you could have them work up to a top set. Let's say a top set of six or eight reps. We'll say RPE seven. And from there, and I might cue them, I want you to stay within a tolerable threshold of symptoms, meaning there isn't like a huge spike in symptoms. Tolerable for each person is going to be a little bit different. I'm essentially going to anchor it to, you know, it might be like a three out of 10 pain. Ultimately, it's up to that person to decide, but I want them to stay under that threshold. From there, I might remove the box for their back down sets, take like 15, 20% off the bar, and have them go full range of motion, slow and controlled, something like three seconds on the way down, maybe even a pause on the bottom, allowing the knees to come forward and reintroducing the range of motion component. So that's just an example with that specific sort of archetype. Do you have anything to chime in with, Derek? No. So most of the time, I will use the same open chain knee extension, but I will use it much more in the beginning, looking at what is tolerable for them. In the grand scheme for tendinopathy, eccentrics versus heavy slow resistance, neither one's really proven superior, and we want it to be what is most tolerable for this athlete. So it's setting up wherever we are on our machine for a weight that's tolerable for them through a range of motion they can control and really aiming to try and get some work done and warm that up. Now, like you, I often come right behind it and after they're warm and after we've done the things that are more tendinopathy specific, we'll go into whatever their primary pattern is, like a squat and work from there. If it is a quad tendon, quite often early on, I'll try and have them push their knees a little bit forward. If it is more of a patellar tendinopathy, I'll often aim for a more vertical shin, but often being the key here because it is completely contingent upon the athlete. We have principles we work within, but what works best for one person may not work best for the other. And in some cases, you might not even need to make a lot of modifications. It might be just as simple as dialing the load back a little bit, and that's why it's so important to kind of get a sense for who that specific person is, what their training history looks like, and also their goals and what they're looking to get back to. If it's a powerlifting athlete, they have a big competition coming up in four weeks, we might not be modifying that much, and it might just be a conversation setting expectations like, hey, this is going to suck for the next few weeks, but this is a very important meet for you. Afterward, obviously, that would be the time to really focus on dialing it back, but you might just need to, you know, make very minimal modifications to get you through this period so that you can go out and compete. And the other side of that, an athlete that doesn't have anything on the horizon, we may just be looking to work around it for a while. We don't necessarily need to squat as part of a program, even for a barbell athlete. When I say squat here, I'm mostly referring to a barbell back squat. Like for a while, we might need to substitute it out with something like a leg press or drive it with a belt squat or something else that gives us that same stimulation, but is much less symptomatic for the athlete. Another example of that is maybe in that off-season period for that specific athlete, they do their competition. Maybe they're squatting, you know, they're just working up to maybe one top set. Maybe they're doing multiple sets within a particular session, but maybe they just work up to one set that's comfortable and they get their other leg training on something like a belt squat or a leg press for a little while and then get that variability within their training routine before getting ultra hyper specific. Once again, you know, jumping into another competition prep, for example.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia

=== FILE: Rise in Colon Cancer, LDL Elevations, Does Strength=Size, and What Do Doctors Know About Nutrition？ [xcUIe2wxu9g].txt ===

 aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo Annually, about 50,000 people die from colorectal cancer in the United States, and their lifetime incidence of colorectal cancer is about 4%. In the United States, colorectal cancer incidence rates have been declining by approximately 2% per year, but this rate of decline has slowed to approximately 1.2% per year in the period from 2014 to 2018. So it's been going down, but then as of late, it's been going down less, and notably, in the United States, the declining mortality overall is masking trends in younger adults. So colorectal mortality rates per 100,000 people in the population amongst individuals aged less than 50 have declined by about 2% per year from 2000 to 2004, but then after that has been increasing by about 1% through 2018. So things have been going down for like years and years and years, and now, as of late, they've been going up, especially in people under the age of 50. So overall, the incidence of colorectal cancer is increasing in individuals under the age of 50 while it is decreasing in older individuals in the United States and Western countries. So with that lay of the land out of the way, Dr. Baraki, why is there such a large rise in colon cancer in younger people? Dr. Baraki, Jr.: Yeah, certainly a concerning finding and pretty relevant as at the moment I happen to be taking care of somebody with this very issue at the moment, which is pretty tough to watch that happen to somebody so young. And it's something that's been investigated quite a bit. I don't think that we have a single definitive cause nailed for this kind of thing, as with most cancers. There are a couple cancers that are like pretty simple, and it's like you got this one gene mutation, and that's it. And if you treat that one gene mutation, then this becomes a treatable cancer, like CML, for example. But most cancers are much more complex, multifactorial, not necessarily homogeneous, meaning they're not all the same. Even if you have the same cancer diagnosis, you have unique tumor biology between people and things that may have predisposed you or led to it, or certain different levels of aggressiveness and how it manifests in you. So all in all, super complex field, there's a reason why there are people who dedicate their lives to studying this and people who specialize and dedicate their lives to treating it. And I'm not one of those people, even though I see folks with cancer daily or the complications of cancer, et cetera. As it relates to colorectal cancer, it's something that does have a lot of different risk factors, a lot of predisposing things, some genetic, less commonly, and then some things that are more behaviorally related. And so obesity is a major variable here. It's one of the obesity-associated cancers. There's a list of those. Obesity and its associated, oftentimes, you know, insufficiently active lifestyle habits. The, quote-unquote, Western diet, which involves a lot of consumption of highly processed meats and generally low fiber intake from whole foods, are things that are pretty consistently and strongly linked to the risk of colorectal cancer. And then other things like alcohol and smoking have some relationship. It might not be quite as strong as some of these other variables. There are tons of other kind of hypotheses that are being investigated. For example, are there issues with the gut microbiome that increases this risk? Or is that just, you know, another derangement that happens because of the diet and the activity? Or is one causing the other? It's hard to say. Various aspects around inflammation. We know, for example, patients with inflammatory bowel disease are at much, much, much higher risk of developing colon cancer. So they get screened way more aggressively starting much earlier in life. And so, yeah, there's a ton of other kind of hypothetical or things that are being researched. But I think that the best guess at the moment is kind of this westernized diet, obesity, and the associated behaviors as far as the biggest, at least easily modifiable factors on the individual level to mitigate your risk of colorectal cancer. So shifting the dietary pattern in a much healthier direction, increasing fiber from whole food sources, maintaining, you know, healthy body composition, physical activity, not smoking, not drinking, all the usual things that any good doctor would tell you, things that we advise frequently would be most of the things that I would advise to mitigate your risk as much as possible. And then if you wanted to take it further than that, then initiating, you know, age-appropriate screening when that time comes by working with a physician on that. Yeah. A lot of the conditions that we see like an increased, quote-unquote, prevalence of, particularly during this era of, you know, modernity, I just initially go to obesity, insufficient physical activity, and the current dietary pattern because from a time perspective, temporally, it just makes sense. Most of these conditions have like a long or relatively long latent period, you know, they start early and then insidiously kind of turn into a problem later in life. And, yeah, we're talking about people under the age of 50, but, you know, 30s and 40s, that's not exactly like a short-term sort of thing. This has been going on, festering for a long period of time, these risk factors where people are carrying too much adipose tissue, where people are eating a dietary pattern that's not really that health-promoting, and they're insufficiently active. And so to me, those are the most likely smoking guns, so to speak, and then we can identify other things that are downstream from that. But I don't feel confident enough to say like, ah, it's just obesity. Yeah. And hand-wave it away because that would be a smooth brain take as we've – so do you want to talk about screening real quick because these have recently changed, and I just want people who are listening to this, there are probably some folks in this demographic, you know? Yeah. So the guidelines did recently change within the past – it might have been the last year or two years ago, whereas historically average-risk individuals, so those who don't necessarily, for example, have inflammatory bowel disease or you have a first-degree relative who is diagnosed with colon cancer at an early age, if you don't have those kind of risk factors that would put you at elevated risk, that would make you average-risk. And historically average-risk individuals were advised for screening at age 50. Those – because of these trends that have been observed, that guidance has shifted a bit to initiate at age 45. There are – there is admittedly some controversy around this both within the U.S. and worldwide, and we don't necessarily need to get into all the weeds on that here. There are different modalities that can be used for colorectal cancer screening, stool-based tests that are aimed to be initially non-invasive, and then if they're positive, then you would proceed to a more invasive test like a colonoscopy or a flexible sigmoidoscopy, et cetera. And so those are things to discuss one-on-one with your physician to see if, you know, which one, if any, is more or less appropriate for you. And then the other consideration that is maybe less applicable to our listeners but something that I teach about a lot has to do with not only when to start screening but when to stop screening when it does not make sense to screen somebody for these things anymore at the older age of the spectrum. It's like 80-something, isn't it? Well, it varies based on the patient, right? So if you see an absolute kick-ass 80-year-old who looks like they're going to live for another 40 years, then, you know, you might have a conversation with them and they might want to continue screening. And others who maybe by that age, they're on death's door, unfortunately, due to other reasons, and it might be a situation where it's no longer appropriate. And so for my trainees that I work with, I often point them to help them understand these concepts to actually an online tool from UCSF. It's called the ePrognosis tool. So I just have them Google UCSF ePrognosis. And on that website, you can actually click the option of, for example, cancer screening relating to breast cancer screening or colon cancer screening, and you can put in your patient's demographics, and it actually helps you weigh out what are the potential benefits of screening and what are the potential harms, and is it actually worth pursuing this in the particular patient that I'm seeing? Yeah, I like that. We'll have to come up with our own GAINS tool for resistance training. Would resistance training benefit this patient? 99.9% of the time. Yeah, permanently set it to yes with very, very rare exceptions. Yeah, do you have an emergent condition that needs to be, you know? Do you have complete obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy? Okay, maybe pause until we fix that. Yeah, or imperferent anus, one of the two. Yeah, okay, next question. My latest labs indicate that my low-density lipoprotein, LDL, is up for the first time ever. I'm a 45-year-old healthy female with, quote, mostly good nutrition and exercise. Top tips to reduce. And, you know, we could just sort of say, well, these are the things that can reduce your LDL levels, and we just move on. But I think conceptually I want our audience, and most of them are probably already aware of this, but when we talk about risk stratification for, like, risk of, in this case, heart disease, it's not just your LDL level in isolation. It is an integration of other risk factors that we know contribute. And, in fact, we did a podcast on this latest tool called the PREVENT tool. That was Episode 278. I've linked that in the description below. But the risk factors that it incorporates are not just the results from the standard lipid panel, where you would get, like, an LDL level, an HDL level, and triglycerides and so on, but also what's your current blood pressure, tobacco use status, what's your BMI. And, of course, social determinants of health are also incorporated if you have a person's zip code, because we know that can play a role. And so when I start thinking about, like, should this even be intervened upon in the first place, the doctor-y answer is, like, well, what's your risk? And then we've got to plug it into a tool and come up, well, what's your risk at five years, ten years, and so on, and how likely are you to benefit if we take an intervention now, because this is the sort of dose-related exposure risk. The higher it's elevated and the longer it's elevated for, the higher the risk. But I don't know your LDL level. And, you know, for example, if it's, like, 105, I'm like, okay, like, that's close enough to sort of a really good level. And we know that there's some variation in not only the lab, but also day-to-day variation, so maybe it's fine. I'd want to know more information before I said, you need to lower this right now. In saying that, however, I am of the opinion, I think you are too, that, generally speaking, lower LDL is better. Not, of course, if you have a disease that, like, you know, causes you to have low LDL, but, generally speaking, you would prefer lower rather than higher. So if someone had 105 versus 80 and you were like, well, I'll just be an equal. I kind of want the 80, you know, if I had to pick. And so when we start thinking about what sort of things would you do to lower not just LDL, but also all of the atherogenic sort of lipoproteins? Well, weight loss, if somebody is carrying excess adipose tissue. And I know when I say that, people are like, well, I'm not, you know, I'm healthy. She just said she was healthy. Why are you talking about weight loss? And it's like, well, there's this sort of, you know, individual sort of fat level that above which confers increased risk of disease. And so a person might have a BMI of like 26 or, you know, 24, you know, not even in the overweight category. And you're like, yeah, but I think that there might be some, you know, contributory sort of effects of carrying a little more adipose tissue. So perhaps some weight loss might be beneficial physical activity. And so somebody who's, you know, says they have good nutrition and exercise, I'm like, yeah, well, how much exercise are you doing? Specifically conditioning in this particular standpoint, because I don't know that there's a big sort of impact from more resistance training than the current guidelines. But I don't feel the same way about a conditioning exercise. If 150 minutes per week is the minimum for conditioning, I actually would want somebody achieving maybe double that. Just kind of check that box from like this lipid related risk and how to intervene with that with exercise. Fiber intake, another big one, at least 35 grams per day, which most people, even if they have a quote good dietary pattern, may not be getting. And I would, again, prefer that this comes mostly from whole foods. Although in this particular case, I would also be open to increasing supplemental fiber. Smoking, I assume this person is not smoking because I don't know that anybody is under the assumption that like smoking is beneficial. Although there was a firefighter related forum that I was poking around on. This is years ago now. And they were like, do you think we should like smoke cigarettes sometimes just to like get used to inhaling smoke? I was like, I don't know. Like, do you think radiologists are like, hey, should we like expose ourselves to a little radiation and see if we can get better? Sure. Genetics, obviously, you can't do anything about, but you would want to know if you had a genetic sort of predisposition to high LDL and other atherogenic lipoproteins. So if this person's LDL was like 300, for example, and it was a fasting test and you're like, does this person have familial hypercholesterolemia? And like, in which case that would take you down a different maybe, you know, management pathway. And then after that, if someone's like, look, it's high. Okay. It's high. And my risk is higher than I want it to be. What do now? Well, medications, which we've talked about at length, and I'll let you kind of go off on that more. And probably some additional screening to sort of further characterize like, okay, if we do agree that you're at elevated risk, well, how high is that risk? And are there other, you know, how hard should we pull these other levers, right? If you can get a better sense. So do you want to talk about meds and maybe some additional screening stuff here? Totally. Yeah. So I would want to add a couple things on the dietary front. So I think that from a lifestyle standpoint, if somebody does not have strong genetic predisposition to high blood cholesterol levels, I think that diet is probably the biggest lever that you can pull from a modifiable lifestyle standpoint. I think it tends to be more potent than, you know, actually than weight loss. I think it tends to be more potent than exercise, actually, specifically for modifying your blood lipids. And so fully agree. I think one of the strongest recommendations we would have would be to really try to crank up the intake of dietary fiber from food sources. And so I often try to get my patients who are interested in making some of these dietary changes to eat foods like berries are a fruit source that is like actually quite dense in fiber. So I personally really like frozen berries in various formats. So that's that's one option or any other fruit or vegetable that, you know, non starchy vegetable that you prefer is likely to come with at least some fiber in it. Legumes like lentils, like lentils, like lentils, if you if you tolerate them from your dietary or digestive standpoint. And then the other tends to be foods like oats and things like that as a couple kind of high potency fiber sources in the diet that I aim for. Aside from fiber, the other thing tends to be more relating to your dietary fat sources, which can also overlap with some of your dietary protein sources. And so what we know is that when people consume high amounts of saturated fats from animal, mostly from animal derived sources, that tends to have a negative impact on LDL receptor function. So meaning that your body is not as good at clearing LDL out of your blood. And so by substituting out some of those food sources, we can actually improve LDL receptor function. It can clear this stuff out of your blood a little bit more efficiently. So if you consume high amounts of fatty red meats like ribeyes, for example, if you cook frequently with butter, you eat a lot of butter. That's another source. Certain like coconut fats and things like that also can have this kind of LDL boosting effect. And so substituting those out for unsaturated sources, ideally from like fish, nuts, plant sources, things like that, tend to be health promoting. So I try to get patients, for example, if they eat a fair amount of beef or other saturated animal fats, substitute it out with some kind of fatty fish. So incorporating some like mixed nuts into their diet on a regular basis, things like that, altering what cooking oils they're using for food preparation purposes. And then certainly not adding tons of additional fat to their food if they don't have a need to. So those are some of the dietary changes. As far as meds go, there are a lot of options. We've talked about them a bit before. And getting into the weeds on the meds is a bit outside of probably the time that we're going to allot to this here today. But, you know, the first line tends to be statins. And there are many different statin options. There are different statin potencies. There are different statin dosages. And so when I have a patient who does well on one, great. If they don't do well on one, they don't love it. They have some side effects. I'll often trial another. You can try it at very low dose. You can try taking it every other day. You can try taking it every other day at bedtime. These are all strategies to minimize, you know, any kind of adverse effects. And then if you don't tolerate those, then there are alternatives. Or if I really need some potent LDL lowering, I will often combine a low or moderate dose of a statin with a dose of ezetimibe. That combination therapy, moderate dose, low to moderate doses of both have been shown to be as effective as higher doses of statins alone in a few different trials at this point. And so that's something that I tend to use, especially in somebody who I need more aggressive lipid lowering. And I'll tend to use higher doses of multiple different agents to get them as low as possible if they're at very, very high risk. And then lastly, making sure that my overall risk stratification, to your point, is complete, right? So if somebody is completely healthy in every other detectable way, but they have a mildly elevated LDL, I might not be likely to treat that terribly aggressively. If they have higher risk factors, things like that, then I might treat them more aggressively. And part of that risk assessment can involve other testing to include measurements like a lipoprotein little A level or an LP little A, which is something that we had, I believe, a whole dedicated podcast episode to maybe about a year ago or so. Something that's probably under-tested as far as risk stratification goes. There's not currently a U.S. recommendation for widespread screening, but it is recommended in European cardiology guidelines. And it's something that I tend to do with folks, just a one-time check of this. Now we are pending some upcoming data on medicines and treatments to lower LP little A or lipoprotein little A levels to see. We know that we can very potently lower those levels. How much does that translate into reducing people's risk of heart disease, which is the next big question to answer before we start actually treating that directly. Lipodiceran? I have no idea. Yeah. We'll have to hear some other people pronounce it to see. Dude. But this is one among a couple. There's a couple others that also work in different ways. And so we have different options that have already proven that they can lower it, but we got to see does that actually make people have either fewer heart attacks or another risk of having elevated lipoprotein A levels is the premature development of aortic stenosis. And so I've had some patients who developed aortic stenosis by age 50 or something, which is definitely early. And they, by and large, tend to have either a significant bicuspid aortic valve or lipoprotein little A that's elevated. And so that's something that it would be nice if we could detect that and prevent that because that's a pretty tough thing to have to go through if you need a valve replaced at midlife. Yeah. Yep. Links to this stuff in the show notes below. All right. Next question. For microcycle lengths, what do you think is too short and what do you think would be too long? So some definitions here that we can riff on this. So a microcycle is the smallest unit of trainings of a training cycle that is repeated. So it could be a day, for example, if all of your workouts are exactly the same. Maybe you're like a hyper-specialized powerlifter running like – imagine you're running like a Shaco program, a squat bench deadlift every single time, right? And now, to be fair, in those programs, you do alter intensities and stuff like that, but it's the same exercise, so that really wouldn't count. But imagine if it's just every single day, it's squat, bench, deadlift, 80% of your one rep max for the same number of sets and reps. Technically, your microcycle then would be a day long, and you would just repeat it multiple times per week. More commonly, there are some beginner-type programs where it's just two different workouts that are alternated. So in that case, the microcycle length is two days. And then most training, like most of our programs, for example, are like a week-long microcycle where you have a set amount of programming through the week, and that's repeated each week of the mesocycle, which is basically how long microcycles are repeated for until it's changed. This is also like a block, for example, so usually multiple weeks. And the last thing I'll talk about is the macrocycle, which is the long-term plan of mesocycles, which include all of those repeated units of training, which we call microcycles. The macrocycle typically is over a year, although for like Olympic athletes, it could be like a quadrennial, for example. If the question really is about microcycle length, so like what is too short and what is too long, I think that having like a one-day microcycle where you just do the same workout every single time, I think for most people that's going to be too short. My exception is that if somebody's training like once a week, for example, and that's the only resistance training that they're doing, I could see a case for like a one-day, you know, sort of microcycle. It's not great, but it's certainly better than not, you know, so I imagine if my dad at some point is like, look, man, I can lift one day a week. What do you want me to do? And I give him the same three exercises. That's not probably how I would program it, but I could see if he was like, I just prefer these three or four or whatever it is. I'm doing these in perpetuity. I'm like, all right, I guess your microcycle is a day. I have stronger opinions, though, of how, you know, what is it, too long of a microcycle. I've definitely programmed stuff where a microcycle is really like two weeks long, you know, where people are like alternating things, you know, every other week. And so the actual microcycle, instead of being one week, it's two weeks. But I started thinking about like CrossFit type programming. And if you went from like, all right, workout number one is push jerks, five heavy singles, right? And then workout 309. That's when you finally get back to push jerks for five singles, you know, and you're repeating the thing all over again. To me, that's too long of a microcycle. It's too much randomization. And you're basically you've spread out your ability to adapt too far. That's kind of how I would feel about that. I don't think, though, that this is what the person's asking. I think they're actually asking about like how long should a block of training last? What is too short and what is too long? And that I actually have a, you know, a better answer for, I think. Most of the time, an actual training block. So not a deload block, not a pivot, not a low stress, not like an injury rehab type approach. I think for most people, a mesocycle is going to last somewhere between three to eight weeks on average. If it's a bad program, like or somebody blows up initially, it is just not working. They hate it, whatever. It could be shorter. But you're doing that in response to some feedback that you're getting. Similarly, the mesocycle, the block could be longer if somebody is off to the races. They're just killing it for, you know, maybe 10 weeks, maybe 12 weeks. I haven't had people go for much further than that unless we've done some significant modification within the training program, in which case it's not the same as a cycle. So, like, yeah, you got to cut it. So most of your training blocks, I think, should be somewhere between like three to eight weeks long. And you should plan on at least having an option to change sometime as you get closer to the end there. If you – the reasons for you needing to change usually come down to three major categories. One is logistics. So, like, your time availability to train has dramatically changed, for example, or your goals dramatically change. You're going to a meet, for example, or you have to – you know, it's in season now. Your preferences. That's another reason to change your training mesocycle, right? Someone could be getting great results from a particular training program. It's for, like, hypertrophy, say, and now they want to, you know, prep for a powerlifting meet. Well, you have to change your mesocycle. So it's another reason to change. And then the last one is stagnation. As people's results sort of peter out, they become accommodated and accustomed to the training block, and they stop making sort of gains. That's another indicator to change things up. Injury would be a fourth category, perhaps. So that's what I think about when I think about mesocycle length. Like, what is the optimal mesocycle length? I'm thinking somewhere three to eight weeks, changing it if you need to, if you want to, or if the program is no longer working for you. That's pretty much – those are the reasons. How do you feel about that? Yeah, there's little that I would take issue with in your answer. I think that I would even broaden a little bit up front to where if somebody had a set session that they really enjoyed and they habitually trained twice a week and they didn't have super high performance aspirations and they just wanted to do the same session twice a week, I'd be like, well, again, compared with doing less or doing nothing, like I'm down with that. I think that if we start doing the same session even more frequently than that, I start to have a little bit more concerns about like overuse syndromes and things like that. But if somebody wants to SBD twice a week within reason, I'm like, cool, I'm even fine with that. So I also do like it for my own training, for some of the folks that I've been working with, spreading them out across like a two-week repeating cycle to introduce a little bit more variation, not only to, again, mitigate some of that overuse risk, but also just to break people out of the mindset of like I have to beat last week's numbers every single week since we know that once you're trained to a certain level, that adaptation to the point of true strength gains doesn't necessarily happen on a weekly basis or that quickly. And so giving people a little bit more time to adapt and like kind of shake out the rest of normal ups and downs of training week to week can be useful. And I would have no problem even stretching it to three weeks or something like that. Going much longer than that, then you start to be like, okay, is this just a separate training block? But repeating cycles of a week, of two weeks, of three weeks, I'm down with any of that. Yeah, yeah, I like that. For more on how to program, our low fatigue e-book, it's pretty much our current meditation on programming. So if you want to check that out, I've got a lot of information there on how to program, how to troubleshoot, and so on and so forth. All right, a few more questions left here. Is progressive loading required for long-term health? I assume this means that the person is actually exercising because, look, there are a lot of people who have lived into an old age who like don't exercise. And I assume no progressive loading was had. So, yeah, I don't know. Blue zones, like, yeah, I don't know if they're progressively, like, walking further to get water or wine, for example. But I assume this is in the case of exercise. And so then, all right, well, what is progressive loading? So it's basically this principle that is formally, you know, called progressive overload that suggests the body must be challenged by progressively greater training stimuli in order to match the individual's fitness improvements and subsequently generate fitness adaptations over time. If you didn't do this, people wouldn't get as much fitness adaptations. They wouldn't get as much strength, gain as much strength, gain as much muscle mass, cardio-free fitness, so on and so forth. So how to do this? It's effectively adding something to your workout, whether it's more weight, more reps, more total volume, more distance, more pace, whatever, as you get more fit. So you get bigger, faster, stronger, and you can lift more weights, go faster, go further, et cetera. You don't do it in advance. Now, what would happen if you didn't do this? So I'm going to have a little thought experiment, Dr. Baraki. I'm going to have you answer this. What would happen? So let's say I'm training my dad, hypothetically, all right? And right now he's squatting. I think he squatted 125 today for a couple sets of four. I think, realistically, that's probably like 75% of his actual one rep max right now. So let's just say that in perpetuity he kept squatting 115 for sets of four. What would happen to him over time from a perspective of we'll call them like health-related adaptations, so laundry list there, and then performance-related adaptations? Would it work for a while? Would he just make no gains? Like what would happen to him? Yeah, it is an interesting question. I suspect just by the way that this question was asked that it may reflect not an entirely accurate understanding of what we mean when we talk about this. And I have a friend here behind me that will be on YouTube, I guess. Hi, Kat. So what I would envision is he starts out squatting these loads that you have him doing up front, and he's going to likely adapt to that in some capacity. And when I say adapt, it means that he is going to gain strength. And so if you said that that set is 75% of his one rep max, then in the relatively near term, as he adapts and builds strength to that, then he will suddenly begin squatting a lower and lower percentage of his one rep max as he gains strength. So he's effectively training less as he goes by not matching the load to his adapted kind of potential. And so that will work for a bit to the extent that he continues gaining strength. And then in also not terribly long, he will kind of tap out the maximum amount of strength adaptations that he's able to get out of that particular load. And I think that over the medium term, that is actually he would be fine from a health standpoint, right? Yes. The thing is that over the long term, over a long enough time scale, everyone dies, right? So there's some pathway to that death that involves a degree of regression. And so there will then over time become a point where as his body kind of regresses due to a combination of more trips around the sun and a lack of that stimulus, then that percentage of one rep max that he is squatting will interestingly start to come back up again to the point where it does eventually become 75% again. And then, oh, it became 80, 85%, 90, 95%, one rep max. I can't lift this at all anymore beyond a certain point. And I think that that is kind of the natural trajectory of everyone's strength across the lifespan. The idea is that we want to stretch that out as much as possible to where we gain much of that strength as early in life as we can, maintain it as long as we can. And then that like decline period, you know, is as abbreviated as possible. In other words, when you die, you want your one RM to be as high as you can. I like that. You like that? That's a good short quote. There you go. Yeah. And so that would be what I would expect from a performance standpoint. And honestly, I think that the health standpoint, he's actually likely to enjoy health benefits from that for a while. I do think that, you know, the idea here, again, the way I understood or I interpreted the question being asked is under the more traditional view of progressive overload where do I have to force more weight on the bar to get health benefits rather than the way that we're talking about it as as you get stronger, you need to kind of, you know, adjust it to keep up with your adaptations, to match your adaptations. Right. Right. And so. ! cschoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo about just load, like the weight on the bar in my, my, you know, thought experiment here, he's likely to receive pretty near maximal strength and hypertrophy benefits from that type of workout for a pretty good period of time until he falls out of this sort of effective intensity range. Once that becomes, I don't know, 55%, I'm like, it's, it's probably too, it's too light now. Right. And at that point he's getting less certainly performance benefits, but I also think less health related benefits too, because I do think that training that makes people stronger and makes them actually gain muscle mass or whatever works better for health than just going through the motions and moving your body, which to be clear is better than not going through the motions and not moving your body. But I think that the actual adjustments in load, so weight on the bar, reps, total training load, all these sorts of things, it doesn't need to be micromanaged week to week, it doesn't need to be micromanaged every other week, every third week, every fourth week, I could actually envision a scenario where no variable actually changes over, I don't know, a five week period, an eight week period, and people could do pretty well because there's sufficient, you know, range of viable intensities, viable sort of workloads. And so like, until it becomes far too light to work, it's still going to be fine. Yeah. So when people are like, I got to add one pound to the bar this week, right? Yeah. Or even I got to add five pounds to the bar today. I'm like, no, you don't. If it was sufficiently hard last time, you are highly likely to be smack dab in the middle, or maybe even towards the upper end of this sort of viable intensity range, VIR trademark. And until you get too low, or too high, you're going to be fine. Right? So I think that generally speaking, when people are asking this type of question, I agree with you. They're trying to add weight to the bar too quickly. And it's like, you don't have to bro. If you got a 405 squat right now for a set of four, for example, and it feels like RPA, don't add weight to the bar until it's like RPE less than five. At that point, you've gained enough strength where you're like, hey, I actually do need more weight on the bar because it's too light. You know, obviously, that's a gross oversimplification, but just to illustrate my point here. Yeah, that's a strategy. And I think that some people are going to be better or worse fits for that style of training based on their mentality and the way they go about it. But at the same time, if you go about it in the more aggressive way, where you do try to add more weight onto the bar every week, maybe you progress a little bit faster for any number of reasons. But also, you may be incurring a little bit of a higher injury risk from trying to force something that ain't there. You know, I could see both sides of that coin. I personally employed this strategy on my bench press for my last meet. The only thing that changed loading wise was my single, my top like single sort of thing. I would adjust that based on how strong I perceived I was. Sometimes I was right. Sometimes I was wrong. But all of my back offsets for, I don't know, nine weeks, eight, whatever it was, was 297. It was 68 and a half percent. And I just did all of my volume work at 297. I never went up. I never went down. I just did that because I was like, I can handle a lot of volume here. I don't get sore. And I, you know, as far as my technique, it's also excellent. My technique is also excellent at that load. And so I was like, I'm just going to try this, see what works. Yeah. And, uh, yeah, that's 200 kilos. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. We're going to have to come up with a program that's like do nothing, the do nothing program. Do nothing, but try really hard to move the bar fast. Yeah. I like that. All right. Two questions left here. Uh, does getting stronger over many years build significant muscle mass? Austin, what do you think about that? Just off the cuff? Uh, I mean, I think that the longer you train and the stronger you get, there's probably a closer correlation between your strength and the amount of muscle mass that you have, particularly if you achieve very high levels of strength. In other words, I think that if I could have done a DEXA scan or something on myself and quantitated the amount of muscle mass that I carried when I deadlifted 750 compared with when I deadlifted 700 versus when I deadlifted, you know, 600 or 500, I do think that there would be a general upward trend. It might not actually be perfect because I think that some of that variation in performance obviously is also mediated by skill, by neurological adaptations, things like that. But I think you'd see a reasonable upward trend. I mean, we've seen that at the highest levels of competitive strength and power sport, that the correlation between force production or strength and like muscle cross-sectional area gets to actually be tighter and tighter at very high levels of performance. Whereas like early on, there's very little correlation between that because so much of the strength performance is neurologically mediated and not as much due to muscle cross-sectional area and things like that. But over many, many years, I mean, you have, if you've been training productively, you've maximized as many of the levers as you can. So you'll have the most neurological adaptations, the most muscle adaptations, the most tendon adaptations, the most technical adaptations, things like that. And so, yeah, I would expect a gradual upward trend. I don't think that that's indefinite. I mean, I think that, but you know, we're to the extent that we are no longer willing to gain significant amounts of overall body weight. I think that we have probably achieved about as much muscle as our frames are willing to carry in the absence of pharmaceutical manipulation. And so that's kind of my take on that. Oh, well, I'm going to allow me to have a little gentle pushback. Sure. I do. I mostly agree. However, I don't think that either of us have ever run a program for a significant amount of time that was, you know, its major priority was muscular hypertrophy, you know, to the exclusion of all else, like one rep max strength, be damned, compound movement, performance, be damned. We're really just going to try to max out how much muscle mass you can, you can gain. So I would suspect that even if right now you or I adopt a bodybuilding program and we ran it for, uh, you know, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, like half a year, for example, we'd gain muscle mass. Sure. Yeah. I don't suspect that that would increase our strength in the movements that we care about squat bench deadlift. Um, because we, those, all that new muscle mass needs to be highly coordinated to actually do squat bench deadlift. And we'd have to give up some of that training to like, you know, uh, uh, uh, actually, uh, train the rest to, to generate muscle hypertrophy. But I think to this question, it's like, look, what's the overlap between strength training and hypertrophy training? And it's a pretty big, the Venn diagram, it's not a circle, it's not a circle, but there's a lot of overlap. So a good strength training program is going to increase muscular hypertrophy. A good hypertrophy program is going to increase strength in the movements that are being trained. However, prioritizing one over the other is likely to get you further down that particular aspect than just training over time. Right. So like you and I are mostly strength trained individuals. We are leaving certainly hypertrophy games on the table because we have not, you know, with a soul, a single mindedly, you know, focus towards that same thing for bodybuilders. Yeah. They've achieved a significant amount of strength gains, but they have not single mindedly pursued one rep max strength. And so, yeah, there's some additional adaptations to be had there. Um, yeah, but to answer this guy's question, yes, they're likely to build a significant amount of muscle mass, just not the most amount of muscle mass. And I like to bring this guy up because he has the most, the best nickname in all of strength sports, Tanner Segir, Olympic weightlifter. He snatched something like 440, like close to 200 kilos or whatever is a world record at the time. His nickname, the muscle less wonder. Amazing. Just imagine like if you can snatch close to, I actually don't know there was 200 kilos, but I thought it was real heavy. I thought it was like 190 something. Uh, we can, we can Wikipedia this, but if he's snatching anywhere near that, what do you think his front squad is probably like close to 500 and you know, and he's a 70, it was a 70 something kilo competitor and his legs are like not that big. And you're like, you imagine being called the muscle less wonder and being able to lift all this weight. Yeah. I just looked some things up. I think you were mixing up a snatch and clean and jerk. So he clean and jerked 195 and he snatched one, he snatched one 70 to five, uh, which is pretty, pretty impressive for, I think, uh, he's a 77 kilo lifter. So pretty darn good. Yeah. Pretty good, but not a lot of muscle. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, uh, yeah, if you want to figure out like, how do we blend these two? So imagine someone's like, well, yeah, I do want to get stronger, but I also want to build a lot of muscle mass. What would a program look like? It would look like our power building or hypertrophy programs. Those would be the two, uh, type of programs to run. All right. Last question. Save the best for last Dr. Baraki. We're going to, we're going to shit on doctors. Why do you think some MDs get sucked into promoting fad diets? Uh, do you want to start on this or you want me to, I mean, I can hypothesize, I guess. I think the first thing is that doctors are humans. And so humans get sucked into all sorts of things. There's not, you know, anything that fully, you know, protects them from natural kind of conspiratorial type thinking, which is very common in like the fad diet space or, uh, you know, dollar signs making people do certain things. And so those are probably the first two things that come to mind, um, that, uh, that would attract people in that direction. But those are just my off the dome thoughts. What do you think? Well, my thing is like, in generally speaking, I think that the number of physicians that do in fact promote fad diets, whether it is for financial gain, whether it is due to conspiratorial thinking, I think that they're a statistical outlier. There's just not that like, look, if there's a hundred of them, fine, but there's 12 million physicians worldwide. So like all you're seeing here is the impact of social media and like these platforms that people have to, with very large microphones and they can, yeah, say whatever. Um, that all being said, I, I, I would suspect that if nutrition education was better in medical school and like, you know, uh, uh, more doctors got exposed to this, maybe that would be lessened, but because it's such a small number of physicians and generally they're, they, they just do seem to all follow the same damn pathway. It's like functional medicine, longevity type stuff. And then they start spewing nonsense about nutrition. I don't know that it would help. I just, it's my feel good story. I'm like, look, if we increase nutrition training, behavior change, counseling training, like made doctors learn how to cook and do this, this, this stuff, it would help society. And then you on the other end, the night King, you're like, nah. Yeah. I'm, I'm less convinced that it would have a huge effect. I think it'd maybe have some positive in some folks, but at the same time, those who maybe come into medical school already with a conspiratorial mindset, maybe they're just going to already come in, you know, ready to reject this as well. This is the, this is the, the, the dietary guidelines from the government and I'm not listening to this or whatever, you know, I had the opposite experience. You go back 2010, 2011, Jordan Feigenbaum. You're like, Hey, what's the best diet I can eat for health. And I'm like, ah, it kind of probably looks like the paleo diet, but with like more carbs, like, you know, less not processed stuff, but mostly like paleo, you know, whatever. And maybe you avoid gluten and, and whatever. And the saturated fat stuff's all, all bullshit. So like, don't worry about it. And so it's not that that was like miles away from what I think now is like the quote optimal diet. It's just too rigid. Right. I'm like, well, there's a lot of different ways you could do it. You could be vegan, you could be vegetarian, you could be like paleo ish, it could be, you know, whatever. And I wouldn't be as hard lined on like eliminating gluten from the diet. I wouldn't be as hard lined about, uh, you know, I, I would maybe be more hard line about saturated fat and eating all this red meat, probably not the best, eat more plant foods, stuff like that. But as soon as I was introduced to like scientific evidence and the hierarchy of scientific evidence and like had to consume it like pretty regularly, I was like, it was, it was like a rite of passage. You have to go through like, what am I reading? And then you have to, you know, you wrestle with like, okay, well, is this legit? Or my, is my prior belief system legit or whatever. But I actually found it very freeing in a way I'm like, I don't have to like make this up. Yeah. I can, you know, I can literally stand on the shoulders of giants in the research space and I can say, look, there's multiple converging lines of evidence that have brought me to my current position right now, which, oh, by the way, isn't like my position that I own and like carved out myself. It's kind of like, this is what I think based on the evidence. And if the evidence changes, so do I. Yeah. Not tying your identity to stuff like that is, is a really nice, which is, I think something that we enjoy the luxury of is not having a identitarian kind of perspective on any of these things as it relates to training or nutrition. You know, I truly like don't actually care about a lot of these, these things in, in like a personal way, just my preference is my preference. But to your point, there's a lot of ways that you can achieve success in a lot of these different areas. Okay. A few lightning round questions and we'll wrap this up. One, do you think if we increase the nutrition education that doctors get in medical school right now, it's less than five and like, like 66%, two thirds of medical students right now get less than five hours of nutrition education. Do you think if we bump that up, we'll call 20 hours of the best nutrition education. I give the lecture, assuming I'm the best. Do you think that actually improves patient outcomes in primary care related to nutrition counseling? Probably not. And, and, and, and, well, the reason why is because, you know, I think you can appreciate this more so than maybe many of our audience members who have not gone through medical training is that what you learn in medical school, even though it's, yeah, four years of learning a lot of stuff, it is a small amount of what ends up being applied in your day-to-day practice. Right? So if I think back, for example, to like first year of medical school, how much of the material that I learned in first year of medical school is stuff that I routinely apply day-to-day when seeing real patients, making real decisions in, in, in practice in the hospital setting, really very little, right? Most of what I do think decide, manage, treat is stuff that I learned and absorbed mostly in the context of residency. And then honestly, from like on the job learning after residency, medical school is on, it's necessary to lay the foundation so that you can learn what you need to learn in those subsequent steps. But I think it's just so early that if you meet a first year med student or a second year med student, and it's great if you want to introduce this stuff to them, but if it is not kind of maintained as a steady drip of exposure throughout the rest of their school and certainly throughout residency training, then it's just not something like a third year resident who is in the depths of, you know, their, their final rotations or seeing a full, you know, continuity clinic day or something like that. They're not thinking about what's that lecture that I had as a, you know, first year medical student. And so I think it's necessary. It should, you know, I, I, I'm not arguing this to say you should, that type of education should not be increased in school, but rather that if we want to make any kind of impact on that, it needs to be more of a longitudinal steady curriculum across medical training. Uh, and it's going to be introduced in medical school, but it needs to be more heavily emphasized in this in residency and in the specialties that are going to interface the most with things where that's relevant to be talking about. Right. So if you're a neurosurgeon who specializes in like resecting glioblastomas, then maybe spending a ton of time learning nutrition education is not as valuable as spending more time in the operating room, practicing, cutting out these tumors. But if you're a primary care, if you're pediatrician, if you're, you know, uh, uh, I don't know, maybe even an orthopedist, uh, uh, seeing patients have like obesity related issues, arthritis, things like that. Then, then those are all types of situations where having a bit of nutrition education and behavior change counseling under your belt would be useful, but you don't get that from a couple hours of more hours or 20 hours, 30 hours, 50 hours in medical school is not going to be enough. It needs to be spread out and, and maintained throughout post postgraduate education as well. It was just my ploy to like remove maybe like immunology or something just cause like, come on, man, let's wait till we get to pathophys and like, all right. Second question of lightning round, same, similar type of scenario, but it's exercise related training. So in this scenario, in medical school, there is protected time where medical students get to exercise or learn to exercise and they get additional training on behavior change counseling related to exercise. So hypothetically, they'd be more apt to like recommend them to patients if they're doing it or have done it, have experience with it and are well-trained with behavior change counseling. Would that improve patient outcomes in like primary care specialties? Uh, I also would give a, I think a similar answer here, but I'd actually be almost more in favor of this, uh, mainly because I think that to the extent that it could be deployed and actually get these students doing this stuff, I think it would be so much better for them as they go through their training. Better doctors. I think they'd be, you know, healthier mental, mental health would be better. Stress management would be better. They'd probably actually learn more effectively. They'd probably sleep better. Uh, a lot of things would be better. And then maybe by way of them personally, directly enjoying the benefits of this, then maybe that would actually increase the uptake of it more. I still think that if it's not, you know, somehow, you know, persistent throughout residency training, then it's something that's going to fade away by the time people are actually in practice. I truly think that so little of what I was exposed to in school is stuff that I can see day to day that directly impacts things. That's not to say it wasn't necessary at the time as like a building block as a foundation builder, but the biggest impacts on my practice were experiences in residency, working with mentors in that context, and then things that I've learned on the job since then are done my own self-directed learning since then. Yeah. All right. That's the end of the lightning round. You just crusher of joy, dark night. All right. Fair enough. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine podcast. Thank you so much for tuning in all of the links to the stuff we discussed in here in the show notes below, but before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast. So we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: START HERE： The Cholesterol Action Plan Series [vbwyTm83Vlo].txt ===

viaviaviavia. and cholesterol action plan. This is the most comprehensive resource we've ever produced on heart health. It's a brand new six part audio deep dive accompanied by a full written guide that creates a specific roadmap to lower your lifetime risk of heart disease. Dr. Austin Baraki recorded this series to strip away the noise and focus on the actual science of risk reduction. This series is live right now for Barbell Medicine Plus subscribers. And if you're listening to this, I want to tell you what's inside because this is the stuff that you're going to want to know. In part one, Austin confronts the quadrillion particle problem and why risk starts accruing in childhood. In part two, we overhaul testing. We explain why apolipoprotein B or APOB is a far superior predictor of risk than LDL cholesterol alone and why fasting for the test is often a myth. In part three, we look at the CAC score and the difference between hard stable plaques and the invisible soft plaques that usually cause heart attacks. In part four, we fix the diet. We explain how saturated fat suppresses your liver's LDL receptors and give you the P to S ratio, the single most powerful dietary lever you can pull. In part five, we tackle the athlete's paradox, how high volume exercise stabilizes plaques, making them safer. And finally, in part six, we talk about the holy grail, plaque regression. We discuss why maxing out a statin dose is often wrong and how early combination therapy can lower your APOB to levels that actually shrink existing disease. If you're already a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, check your feed. The entire six-part audio series and downloadable seven-step PDF guide are there waiting for you right now, along with the full article. Download the PDF and start with episode one. If you aren't a subscriber yet, you can get instant access to the full series, the PDF, and our entire library of ad-free podcasts right now by joining Barbell Medicine Plus. Head over to the website, sign up, and get the full picture. Thanks for listening. See you on the next podcast.viaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviaviavia

=== FILE: Sarcopenia Deep Dive： Training, Nutrition, & Hormones for Muscle LongevitySarcopenia [ZYZHSRdji24].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. And as we head into the holiday season, you're likely going to see your parents, grandparents, or other older relatives. And if you look around the dinner table, statistically, at least one of them is likely suffering from sarcopenia, even if they look, quote, normal size. Now, we used to think this was just about muscles getting smaller, but we were wrong. It's actually much more related to the muscle becoming weaker, which is mostly related to changes in the nervous system, a process that begins decades before you notice it. And in this episode, Dr. Baraki and I will be breaking down the newest science of sarcopenia, why walking isn't enough to stop it, and what you and your loved one should do about it. And now on the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, yeah, man. It seems like this is a topic that we've been talking about for, like, I don't know, over a decade now, but we were overdue to cover this topic in some detail. So here we are. Allow me to throw some shade for a second, because we've been talking about this for a while. And you and I were tasked with, you know, by up to date to come up with strength training and primary care and like how to do it. So two articles, if you're a healthcare professional and you want to see our stuff, we're up to date. And we realized that up to date, there's a gap there. There's nothing on sarcopenia on up to date as of this morning when I checked. And so we volunteered to like, hey, do you want us you want us to do the sarcopenia thing? And we were told, well, you're not really the experts on sarcopenia. And I was like, question, who actually, who are the experts in this case? Because it seems like most people are just making stuff up. And then, you know, they're very far into the weeds about the pathophysiology and the nomenclature and naming less into the, yeah, so here's what you do about it. And that's not throwing shade at the researchers because look, we're standing on the shoulders of giants. There are some really intelligent people in here doing great, great work. Unfortunately, though, how that's being communicated to not only healthcare professionals, but also to the lay public, there's just a big gap there. And I was like, well, we do that every day. So yeah, I agree. I mean, I think that, you know, if you surveyed a lot of, you know, generalists or primary care folks or even among geriatricians, they might be able to, you know, give you a sense of what this word means, even if they just drawn some context clues or think back to their like Latin roots or something like that. But taking that a step further and saying, well, how are you going to counsel your patient on this? Or what would you suggest for them? Given that, you know, it's not necessarily easy in all contexts to just say, oh, I'm going to refer them to this practitioner because practitioners in this case are a lot of like trainers that may or may not have the, you know, level of understanding needed for the particular patient in front of them with certain medical conditions or, you know, being on certain medicines or whatever the case is. It's, there's definitely a gap there. So here we are. Yeah, look, that's a nice segue into definitions talking about sarcopenia. Because if you look anywhere on the internet, you swing a dead cat anywhere, it's sarcopenia followed by age associated loss of muscle mass. And we're like, hmm, that doesn't doesn't feel right. So and in fact, it is not right. Now, this, the term sarcopenia was originally coined by a Dr. Erwin Rosenberg in 1989. So relatively recent. So if you had, you know, as we'll talk about, sarcopenia in 1988, you actually didn't because the term didn't exist. So I'd be very curious, maybe they just call it like frailty or like, you know, failure to thrive or something, something like that. I'd be very curious. But in any case, 1989, he writes this, it's not really a memoir. It's more like a, just a recapitulation of what happened in the medical literature. So he says, and I quote, in 1988, we convened a meeting in Albuquerque, New Mexico to look at the various measurements related to the assessment of health and nutrition in elderly populations. And I was asked to summarize some of the findings. I noted that no decline with age is as dramatic or potentially more significant than the decline in lean body mass. Hey, look, 1980s. He goes on to say, what is sarcopenia? Is it an age related loss of muscle mass and function or a disease or a process of normative aging? The term actually describes an important change in body composition and function. So as is typical, whenever we think we've stumbled upon something like unique or like brand new, you just actually have to go back further, just divorce yourself from like modern history and go back even further. And you're like, oh, yeah, some are like really smart people were actually like thinking about this way before us. But why do you think from there? So that's not, that's like the coin, the term is coined. Why is it that everybody right now just call sarcopenia age age associated loss of muscle? Like you could ask Google Gemini right now, and that's going to be the thing it spits out. And it's like, why? Yeah, I don't have a strong explanation for it. I think that some of these definitions tend to take and then they just kind of stick. And, you know, if that is the accepted definition of the term, then research using that definition will tend to look at that very outcome. In other words, it'll tend to look at muscle mass as the as the indicator. So it ends up being like a circular sort of thing where the studies reinforce the definition. This is a hypothesis, of course, you know, but he was seemingly ahead of his time where he included the concept of muscle function in there. And so if, you know, instead from the beginning, he had observed that muscle power was something that was, you know, plummeting with aging in these patients. And then from the very beginning, the research path was set on, you know, the loss of muscle strength and power, then maybe we'd be in a different spot. But that didn't seem to be the aspect of his line of questioning or inquiry that took as much as the loss of muscle mass. And similarly, you know, there is a little bit of a parallel. I don't think we're going to get into it in too much depth in this podcast, but I've talked about it elsewhere to where the prevalence and the development of sarcopenia muscle mass in general tends to track to some degree with bone mass. And so we already had this conception of, you know, osteopenia and osteoporosis relating to bone mass. And so, you know, you might intuit that, oh, sarcopenia, just muscle mass, maybe the same thing, even though it is functionally and of course, structurally a very different tissue. Yeah, he also thought about, he said in his little memoir, kind of memory thing, he's like, oh, should I call it sarcomalacia? And but at the end, he like the last paragraph and all this stuff, there's a ton of references here. But in this, in this little editorial, he was like, one question that remains, was it a good, is it a good thing that I put a label on this, basically, like, and he goes, yeah, because now people are researching it. And so, you know, I think if around today, he'd be like, I wish I would have put a bigger emphasis on this and function thing. So yeah, as we dive into a little etymology here, so where do the word come from? So sarcopenia means flesh poverty. So, penia, you've heard like osteopenia, for example, just that means poverty and sarx is flesh or muscle tissue. You could also call it myopenia. And then there's another term that we will discuss here called dyna-penia, so like strength, poverty, a loss of strength, or it could be crato-penia, which I quite like, power, poverty, a loss of power. Now, these are the key variables in the disease that we commonly understand and talk about sarcopenia. And it matters how we define them and the disease. So for example, muscle mass declines about 1% per year after age 50, but strength declines about three times faster per year, and power declines even faster than that. So it can't just be muscle mass, because, and I'll draw an analogy here, and this has actually been codified in the medical literature, it's called the green banana relationship here. So a green banana and a ripe banana might be the same size, but their chemical composition and firmness are totally different. So old muscle, to draw a parallel, can look full on an MRI due to fat or water or other things, but have zero or reduced contractile quality. So you can't just go on size alone. So I'll ask this question to you again, Dr. Baraki, but in a different way, and maybe you'll have a better answer. For a long time, the medical community was obsessed with measuring muscle mass. So even, you know, as far back as 2010, the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in older people, well, their guidelines said that small muscle basically equals disease, that's sarcopenia. But then we saw this paradox in the data where you had people with, quote, normal sized muscles, but they were still falling and fracturing their hips. So can you walk us through why the guidelines have shifted now as late as 2019 to prioritize strength and function over just muscle mass alone? Yeah, it's been an important and interesting evolution. And like many kind of, you know, fields of study and medicine and theories, it tends to get refined over time as we learn more. I remember writing some original articles for Barbelle Medicine over a decade ago on the website and referencing the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in older people, the original version before the second version that you are citing here from 2019. And that's where there kind of started to be this more formalized shift in the way we thought about sarcopenia instead of focusing on the mass aspect to explicitly state that sarcopenia is more probable when low muscle strength is detected. So shifting a little bit somewhat away from mass and more towards function, although the definition and the way we conceptualize it still tended to envelop both. But I think that marked a time when there started to be a bit more emphasis on the strength component. And these guidelines looked at sarcopenia across the lifespan and emphasized that they kind of viewed it as a muscle disease that started earlier in life and you would kind of accumulate these hits across the lifespan in various ways due to what we call secondary causes, meaning like if somebody is accumulating certain diseases or they are progressively more inactive or, you know, one area that's, you know, I observe on a day-to-day basis is each time one of my patients gets admitted to the hospital, there's some literature that these have been termed quote-unquote, catabolic crisis. For example, each time somebody with COPD gets admitted to the hospital or somebody with heart failure gets admitted to the hospital, every time, you know, they end up getting sick, they get inflammation, they spend most of their time in bed, they get put on certain medicines like corticosteroids and things like that that accelerate the process of catabolism and muscle breakdown. So each one of these episodes contributes to the accumulation of these hits kind of across the lifespan. And so they looked at the concept of sarcopenia and they said, well, it's probable if the person has some low muscle strength and if you combine that and they also have low muscle quantity or this concept of muscle quality that you alluded to where it might appear that they have a decent amount of muscle mass, but it is of such poor quality that it doesn't work very well, that was essentially confirmatory of a diagnosis of sarcopenia. And then if on top of that you layered on that this person had kind of what we'll call objectively poor physical performance or low performance as assessed by certain, you know, tests that have been studied that we'll get to a little bit later, that would qualify as more severe sarcopenia. Yeah, yeah. And the key thing here is that, you know, with the old just muscle mass centric or muscle centric, you know, definition diagnosis, it just it didn't correlate very well as far as like it wasn't very predictive of like, oh, these people are going to do worse, they're going to fall more fractured, get more fractures, not be able to live independently or mortality, for example. And so you're like, well, why do we have this disease? And we're going to harangue ourselves to like diagnose it when it's not that great as far as predicting these things. But if you actually change the definition, instead of it just being muscle mass only to actually you need some poor muscle function, and here's how we're going to define that, well, it gets much, much better. And we have good data on that now that continues to emerge. And actually, it looks like the, you know, the pendulum has swung the other way, rather than it being like muscle mass centric, it's more muscle strength, muscle force production centric. I just had an interesting thought. And let me run this by you and see what you think of it. One of the common, you know, things that we talk about all the time that we hear is critiques of BMI. I was just where people say that we're on the same page here. BMI as a tool to assess body fatness or adipose tissue is not ideal in certain circumstances because it fails to account for how much muscle somebody might have as part of that calculation. And what you're suggesting here, what we've been talking about as far as muscle quality goes, or quantity goes, is that even if you are to assess the size of someone's muscle, it's almost in some ways like BMI, because just the sheer size of it does not tell you much about the quality in terms of how much fat is actually in the muscle that is that useful. It's kind of like going in the other direction. Do you think that that holds water? Yeah, I think it does. And I just imagine people, again, if there was just this outrage, like the European working group on sarcomenate, other people have no idea this test is just about muscle size and not muscle strength. Right, right. I also think that, and we'll get to this, that the hand grip strength, it's just one of the tests that you can do in the office doesn't require a lot of skill, like whatever. I understand why it's used, but I don't love it, and we'll get into reasons why. But I think that's like the BMI test also. It's just like, if you want to be upset about things, be upset about BMI and hand grip strength and then whatever. Yeah. All right. But anyway, the whole point is when you shift away from a mass only sort of definition of sarcopenia, and you include strength or even just have strength alone, power alone, it does much better predicting falls, mortality, so on and so forth. And we've linked a ton of data showing that from the sarcopenia definitions and outcomes consortium, there's just too many acronyms here, I think. Now, to add one tiny addition to my prior comments, I think much like BMI though, muscle mass quantitation, if you wanted to measure it, is probably still quite useful at the extremes. So in the same way that I can tell you, if somebody's BMI is 17, I know that they are extremely underweight and I can kind of visualize them when I see them, or if their BMI is 42, I know that they are 100% confident that they are carrying too much muscle mass, whereas there is a range in between where it gets a little, sorry, excuse me, fat mass, there's a range in between where it's a little bit hazier, kind of similar with muscle mass, right? It's very unlikely that somebody with just overwhelming amounts of muscle mass on them is likely to have insufficient muscle function to be able to live a generally healthy life from a functional standpoint, although there might be other issues to speak of with respect to how such muscle mass was acquired. But at the same time, you know, when I think about some of the thinnest and most frail patients that I see, it's like, I can just tell by the sheer, you know, how little muscle mass they have when I can essentially see their skeleton, I'm like, yeah, there's no way you're like extremely functional with this. So at the extremes, that quantity is still useful, but there is a broad range of kind of less certainty, not unlike what we've described with BMI, where you need additional data to kind of adjudicate that. Yeah, although this is a nice segue into our next little talking point here, because there's a distinct situation where a person is likely to actually be carrying either a normal amount of lean body mass or like even an elevated amount of lean body mass, but have poor function, and they also have a significant amount of fat mass, and that's called sarcopenic obesity. Generally speaking, individuals with obesity or individuals with overweight tend to carry more lean body mass than lean individuals. It's just kind of how the disease develops. People just don't gain 100% fat mass. Despite that, individuals with sarcopenic obesity, as Dr. Baraki will tell us about, also have poor muscle function, despite having a significant size of their muscle. So Dr. Baraki, what's up with sarcopenic obesity? What is it? And why is it even that much more dangerous than just run-of-the-mill sarcopenia? Yeah, it's essentially a second hit to their physiology and to their health risk. So it is a kind of a next level up in terms of risk, because it combines all of the risks of sarcopenia, where the person might have insufficient muscle mass, but more likely has some impaired muscle function, leading to the consequences of that. But on top of that, they have the additional risk from the excess body fat, which we have talked about at length over the years on this podcast, from the levels of inflammatory signaling molecules called adipokines coming from muscle, the effects of fat physically infiltrating into the muscles. That's called myosteatosis, and it causes this toxicity within the muscles. That's called lipotoxicity and leads the muscles to become insulin resistant, meaning they don't take up glucose as well. They have impaired metabolism. People's resting lactate levels will be abnormally high in those situations, just because their metabolism is not functioning very well at the level of the muscle. This ends up being a pretty harmful and negative pathologic feedback loop, I would say, in people, because they have both impairments on the muscle side and on the fat side, because both are going in the wrong direction. Yeah. Now, when we try to figure out how many people actually have sarcopenia, because of all the problems with definitions that have only recently been resolved, although there's still some active work being done, it's very challenging to come up with a confident, like, hey, this is how many people have it. But right now, based on the best estimates and the best data that we have, about 5% to 13% of community dwelling adults aged 60 to 70 have sarcopenia, and that goes up to almost 50% for those over the age of 80. Now, I suspect with these new definitions, these new frameworks coming into play, that prevalence is actually going to increase, but we'll need some more data to feel confident about that. There's an interesting nuance here, though, that there are different types of sarcopenia. We talked about sarcopenic obesity, but broadly speaking, you can really differentiate sarcopenia into two types of primary and secondary, primary being mostly age-related, meaning that there's no other specific cause that's evident of this, except for aging itself. And this is really a diagnosis of exclusion. So there are intrinsic biological clocks, not to get too fancy, but there are the little nuclei in your muscle cells. These are responsible for making proteins, maintaining a particular area of the muscle, making sure everything's working well. Well, you get some DNA damage that accumulates there as we age. We can't really reverse that totally anyway. You might have conrial dysfunction, there are some hormonal changes, not necessarily the ones you might think about. Everyone just immediately jumps to testosterone, but I'm thinking more about the hormones produced by the muscle, like myokines, for example, also hormones produced by the fat tissue adipokines, and there's some other signaling stuff. All of this is influx and can't, bother time is undefeated. Okay, that said, despite those negatives, muscles are still very responsive to activity. We've got evidence that people even in their 90s can get stronger, which I think is awesome. But as far as can we completely reverse aging, no. So that's primary sarcopenia, which to my mind, and we don't have evidence on this yet, but I would suspect that is a very rare or a minority of individuals with sarcopenia. To me, it's analogous to when we look at obesity, people say, oh, they're addicted to sugar, or they have food addiction. I'm like, well, that is a very narrow subset of individuals with obesity, but it does not represent the majority of individuals with obesity. So primary sarcopenia certainly does happen, but it's a minority of individuals with sarcopenia. Now, secondary sarcopenia occurs when there's one or more distinct causal factors that act in concert together to basically age the muscle faster. It's like an accelerant. You're pouring an accelerant on a fire here. So disuse is one of these. That's what I would suspect is the primary one, particularly in otherwise healthy individuals or mostly healthy individuals, but also chronic medical conditions that people tend to accumulate as they age. Now, that includes stuff like rheumatoid arthritis, COPD, as you mentioned, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, type 2 diabetes, the list goes on. There's a lot of inflammation goes on there. You can get these, like you said, catabolic crises, particularly if they're admitted to the hospital and taking other agents to treat why they're in the hospital for that catabolism. It could also be nutrition related, whether it's a person who has difficulty accessing foods of food insecurity or as individuals age, their appetite tends to go down. Protein intake tends to drop. So there can be some nutritional element here as well. Is that how you understand the kind of differences between primary and secondary sarcopenia? Yeah, for sure. I don't think that, at least in my type of clinical work that I would ever confidently diagnose a case of just primary sarcopenia, almost exclusively, even if the person tells me that they have no medical problems yet they somehow meet that criteria, it's often going to be attributable to insufficient physical activity and, as you mentioned, disuse. But my patient population that I tend to work with a bit more, at least outside of the barbell medicine context, where we select for people who generally don't have sarcopenia because they're here because they train, are going to be those hospitalized patients who have all those medical conditions that you described. Advanced end-stage organ system diseases affecting the lungs, the heart, the kidneys, the liver, all of those can lead to chronic inflammatory states, changes in appetite, changes in nutritional status. Among the worst of them tends to be cirrhosis in particular, where I think it's a very, very common and under-recognized issue, because a lot of patients with cirrhosis for a long time, they also tend to just retain a lot of water in various areas and then they tend to be swollen. And so they don't physically look as thin and frail, at least until the much later stages. And then you combine that with various other aspects of that disease and it can be particularly catastrophic for them. So most of the people that I see have some combination of insufficient activity, multi-morbidity, which is a fancy term to say they have multiple medical conditions, and sometimes even the drugs used to treat these conditions can have negative impacts on muscle. So like, for example, the frequency that people with COPD are put on prednisone, which is a catabolic steroid that can impact their amount of muscle mass over time, and then poor nutrition or insufficient nutrition in general kind of conspire to increase the prevalence of sarcopenia in my patient population in particular. Yeah, yeah. So to summarize before we move on to diagnosis, sarcopenia, which is size loss, dyna-penia, strength loss, and creatopenia, power loss, well, they're all different. Because strength declines about three times faster than muscle size and it correlates better to actual clinical outcomes like falls, fractures, mortality, etc., the modern guidelines on sarcopenia prioritize function strength for diagnosis over size loss alone, as muscle can be normal sized in sarcopenia but still dysfunctional. That's a nice segue into diagnosing sarcopenia. So how do you know you have it or a loved one has it? This is where things get kind of tricky because even when you look at the guidelines, it's not exactly clear like, hey, do this, it's based on awesome evidence. So just do this. Like, there's no like clinical practice guidelines, a bunch of consensus statements out there. But one of the things that you'll see if you dig into the literature or if you're working in the space is this idea of lead off with the questionnaire, this Sark F questionnaire, which stands for strength assistance with walking, rise from a chair, climb stairs, and falls, which kind of tells you what's in this questionnaire. The problem with this, and this is almost like a direct like analogy to BMI, it has a very high specificity in that if somebody has a positive test for a Sark F questionnaire, I'm feeling pretty confident that they likely do have sarcopenia. But if they don't meet criteria, which is a score of greater than four, I am not sure that they actually don't have it. So it's not very sensitive. It misses almost half of the people that do have sarcopenia, even if they take this test. So if you lower the threshold to a score of two or one, well, yeah, the sensitivity actually improves. And some authors, some researchers have suggested, well, yeah, it improves sensitivity, and it actually is not an unacceptable loss of specificity. And I suspect that's because in individuals being administered this questionnaire, the pretest probability of having sarcopenia is so high that it's like, we're not getting these questionnaires, you and I personally, but like older individuals generally speaking, because it's likely way under diagnosed, far more common than we think that, yeah, you just end up capturing a lot more people. Does that kind of jive with your understanding of this? Yeah, my thoughts on this, I think I've been kind of making some consistent arguments for many years about this at this point, basically starting out from the concept of what is a diagnostic label and what is the point of giving somebody a diagnosis. And from the patient perspective, of course, I understand that it can provide some sense of certainty, some closure, things like that. That's actually not what I'm talking about here from the clinical and management standpoint. What is the point of giving somebody a diagnosis? It is because that diagnosis should ideally inform some degree of our understanding about prognosis, and ideally should impact our management plan, what we do with the person. And so this is a situation where I actually, I'll start out with a different type of scenario to illustrate the point. It is important for me to make a specific diagnosis of cancer in somebody to rule in cancer or to rule out cancer if I'm considering potentially administering them chemotherapy, because I would not want to give chemotherapy to somebody who does not have cancer. Zero to one. And it might, it may be appropriate for somebody who does have cancer, right? In the context of sarcopenia at the present time, we're jumping briefly ahead to like treatment, we are not routinely administering these patients toxic drug therapies. We're not giving them ultra high doses of oral anabolic steroids or something like that. But rather the management of sarcopenia, the optimal management at least at present, involves kind of aggressive disease modification for the conditions they already have to improve health from that standpoint, increasing physical activity, training, nutritional support, things like that. None of these things carry with them such a disproportionate risk that I at least at present have a great deal of concern about the risk of potential over diagnosis here. Now, it might not make somebody feel good to have a diagnosis like this if they don't in fact have the condition. But if ultimately what I'm going to do or if ultimately what I would like for this label to do, especially if as it gains attention among clinicians in practice, be it primary care, hospital medicine, etc., is that it prompts a more dedicated discussion, potential referral to resources for more aggressive physical training interventions, nutrition interventions, things like that. I'm kind of okay with that at this point. With the caveat being that hey, to the extent that those resources might be limited, then yeah, you don't want to like insanely over diagnose people. But clinicians ought to be addressing this with patients, especially those who are at risk anyway. And so yeah, if you ask somebody about their strength or if they're needing assistance with walking or if they're having difficulty rising from a chair or climbing stairs, if they're falling, yeah, any one of those is enough to get me concerned. So in my mind, in my practice, if I'm asking those questions, yeah, a score of one is enough to get me concerned about this person. It might not be the most severe phenotype or the most severe manifestation of sarcopenia, where we need to pull out all the stops. But not unlike our discussions around cardiovascular disease and cholesterol management, it's this kind of cumulative lifelong thing. I'd rather catch you earlier on before you fall and you fracture your hip. And then I have to deal with the rehab on the back end of that, which is a much harder lift than addressing this a little bit earlier. So if I hear that somebody has any of the impairments in that questionnaire, that's already my first tip off that something ought to be done to kind of alter this patient's trajectory. All right. Well, let me play devil's advocate here then. All right. So we have this Sark F questionnaire. And I just imagine all of the obstacles for somebody to actually administer that in practice. So like, I got to download it, I got to ask the questions properly, got to record it, the EMR, whatever. Yeah. Let's just say in the bizarro world, this alternate reality that we now live in, that look, anybody past the age of, let's say 45 automatically, like as soon as your first visit encounter with the clinician at risk for sarcopenia pops up. And so at that point, it prompts the physician to basically counsel them on, hey, resistance training is going to be super important for you. Eating enough protein is going to be super important for you. You have these medical conditions, we should really try to optimize these because these are all things that you should be doing anyway to be clear. And the reason why that time point is so important as, again, we're jumping ahead a little bit, that the pathophysiology of sarcopenia, like when you get down to the level of muscle, this stuff starts in your 40s or even before that a little bit. So the idea is like, let's catch it early, let's have a large strength span or muscle span, whatever term you want to use. And so if we agree that this sort of like push, screw the sarc F, where everybody's going to get this counseling, because that would likely increase uptake, you know, I don't know, that's a big, that's a big, that's a big assumption that, you know, counseling more people in the  and the doctor's office would help more people exercise. I think there's some evidence I could argue that's not very strong, but it's there. I don't know, what do you think about that? Yeah, I think I'm generally prickly about the idea of instituting more things for primary care doctors to do. You know they're just gonna have that. There's, you know, they already have so many things that are mandated and some things that are actually far dumber that are mandated for them to have to do. Totally. And I wish that, you know, for me, in my practice, yeah, I don't actually use this questionnaire because I'm like having a conversation with the person and I'm observing them and I am very consciously attuned to this person's functional status and getting a sense of what is their life like and I watch them move and I try to get them up and walk them around the hospital room or something like that. And those things just tell me what I need to know even without meeting like checkbox criteria that take up that level of time. But I also understand that not all clinicians are like that. And so, you know, there's this fine line to walk between, what do we like mandate in clinical encounters and electronic medical records and things like that and like make doctors pull their hair out compared to just like getting to their patient and having a conversation that's individualized to them but also knowing that, hey, not everybody even does that. So it's a tough thing. I don't have a great answer for it. Yeah, man, I just think like, you know, look, the colonoscopy pops up at a particular age. I think this pops up at a certain age. You get more counseling about it. Maybe there's more uptake. Maybe there's more motivation like, or levers to pull during motivational interviewing. Anyway, okay, so that's the Sarkath. That's a questionnaire. There are other better metrics that if you really wanted to dive into like, hey, how's the muscle actually functioning? And so, grip strength, for example, is one of them. Studies indicate that grip strength values of less than 36 kilograms for men and less than 23 kilograms for women may identify, better identify probable sarcopenia than lower thresholds. And so theoretically, if you had this hand grip dynamometer, which if you've never done one of these things, you just squeeze it real, real hard and it comes up with the number. There's a bunch of interesting stuff on these tests, like which ones are better than others. It matters how textured the material is, the leverage, how big someone's hand is, the handedness, the person had all sorts of stuff. The weird thing is it doesn't correlate super well with actual improvements in dynamic strength. So like Austin, your squat has gone from 285 to over 600 pounds and I don't know that your hand grip strength has actually gone up that much. I know that your hand grip strength asymmetry has gone down, which anyway, that's for another podcast perhaps, but I'm just waiting for Apple to come out with the iPhone 18 Pro Max that actually has like a pressure transducer built into the case. And so you have people just squeeze the phone case and it tells you like, oh, you're at risk for sarcopenia. Look, they already got VO2 Max. Why not have like a grip strength hand built into the case or built into the phone? Do you, are you using grip strength at all? Like when you're going around seeing patients? No, I don't like it. I don't use it. It does require like a, you know, a calibrated or validated device and things like that. And that's just added complexity for little, you know, gain compared with just using a simple functional test as well as like talking to a person. Yeah, so you could use like a sit to stand test. Like, and this, if you're, look, if you're going home for Thanksgiving, you're going to see your loved ones for Thanksgiving, this is something you can do. You don't even need to tell them it's a test or if you do want to tell them it's a test, that's fine too. Maybe they'll try harder, which is ideal, you know, to get a more accurate sort of depiction of their functional status. So, hey, can you stand up from a chair five times as fast as you can? Don't use your arms. And so you can just do this at home. Basically, you start your stopwatch and if they do it under 15 seconds, you can feel a little bit better about their sarcopenia risk. And if it takes them longer than that or they have to use their arms, maybe then you can say, hey, why don't you come to the gym with me tomorrow? That'd be the best case scenario, right? Rather than saying you should work out. It's like, well, yeah, duh, they already knew that. How do you break that barrier? There are other tests, like appendicular skeletal muscle mass, which is a fancy way of saying how much muscle you're carrying. You can measure that with x-rays, that's a DEXA scan, or MRI or CT. I was impressed to learn that there's also another measure of specific muscle groups size, the lumbar muscle mass. And I'm just saying, I'm never getting sarcopenia if they measure my lumbar records. There has been some interesting evidence recently. This is a little bit of a side tangent, but on the use of essentially AI, looking at scans that people are already getting, for example, to estimate their bone density, because if people are already getting CT scans, there are algorithms to calculate their bone density based off their CT scans. And it's like, maybe you would be screening way more broadly, and it's using data that we're already collecting if you did that. And so I suspect that for anybody who's getting an abdomen pelvis CT scan, for example, there is a slice that you could take of their kind of maximum, I don't know, which of the spinal erector muscles or the iliasoas muscle cross-sectional area that they're using in these types of studies that you could collect that data based on what you're already scanning. Of course, the caveat here is that these imaging tools, again, are looking at muscle quantity or cross-sectional area size and not assessing function. The example that you previously gave, the sit to stand, that's like my favorite because I leverage it, not just from a diagnostic standpoint to assess the person's function, but hey, I turned it into their exercise program of like, hey, okay, cool, here's what we're gonna actually do is sets of this to strengthen your hip crudel and musculature and things like that. Yeah, you can also test somebody's gait speed, it's like a four meter walk test or even a 400 meter walk, there's like, can you do that? So yeah, other things you can do at home. So basically, there are a bunch of different tests that you can do. Now, you've kind of already, we're not really burying the lead here, just talking, but how do you diagnose sarcopenia in practice? Is it mostly just the sit to stand? And further, who gets screened and what if any confirmatory tests are needed after? Like, are you following the European working group, like specifically to the letter or are you just kind of cowboy out in a different thing here? No, I'm not actually following those. And this isn't to, you know, throw shade at them or to speak negatively about them, but it's rather that I'm very kind of attuned to this as an issue, point A. And then B is I have a patient population that is highly enriched for those with this diagnosis, meaning like my pre, what I'll call my pre-test probability, or like before I even walk in the hospital room, what's the likelihood that the person I'm about to see has this condition? And it is far higher compared with the general population, just because of where I work in an acute care hospital setting, dealing with mostly, you know, older multi-morbid types of patients. And then my sense of comfort with this involves A, like looking at the person, because at the extremes, it is easy to diagnose. When I see somebody who's thin and frail, skin and bones, and I can see their ribs and their temporal bones and things like that, then yeah, I am very likely to have made the diagnosis almost on site. And then through a conversation with them, depending on the nature of what brought them into the hospital, what their life is like at home, if they need help with accomplishing their activities of daily living, things like that, that'll further strengthen my case. And then if I get them up out of bed and walk them around, or sometimes I've done five times sit to stand in a hospital room and seen how they can do, and more often of the time, they're either unable to get up even once without using their arms, or they might need to use their arms, but it's still very slow. And obviously that'll prompt, not only inpatient physical therapy consultation, but it might prompt a conversation once the patient is ready for that, about the path forward in terms of what can be done. It's not always appropriate to have that conversation in the hospital setting, depending on the context. And if the person is in active respiratory failure, impending they're gonna die soon that I might not be having these conversations every single time. But like I said, given just how common it is in my population, I can look at the person, talk to the person, and then watch the person try to get up out of chair. And that's my more pragmatic sequence of events that doesn't involve carrying around a hand grip dynamometer and following a European working group algorithm or something like that. Yeah, not everybody needs the DEXA scan. Definitely not. So potentially, look if it affects up to 50% of people over the age of 80, and if it's maybe five to 13%, probably closer to 20% of the general population between like 60 and 70 or something like that, should more clinicians be doing what you're doing? What about fitness professionals? And I know, I just go back to your previous point, like look, if we identify this more, how does it change what we do? But I guess if people are looking for it, maybe they're gonna do something about it rather than just, well, they're just getting older. Yeah, I think so, especially when it's paired with more trained or skilled or effective behavioral kind of interviewing, motivational interviewing. I do think that clinicians should be doing it more often, but when I say doing it, again, I don't want to convey the idea that, oh, I'm just like stacking more requirements onto your plate because what I'm doing does not feel like, oh, I'm like checking off this additional box or it's this additional burden on me. Because again, I'm like walking in the room and like A, looking at the person, B, talking to them about their life and what it looks like at home and their ability to do the things that they want to be able to do, which is like part of normal history taking anyway, and then standing them up and that's also part of a routine kind of exam. So it's almost like when we talked about, hey, let's use AI to analyze these measures that we're already getting off a CT scan. This is just me paying attention during the history and physical that I'm already doing. So it's not actually adding a ton in terms of clinical burden, but rather if I'm able to identify the issue and tie it to something meaningful to the person, then that is my lead point to get into the motivational interviewing aspect. If they want to be able to do something and they can't right now, and it's like, well, I just noticed that you had a hard time standing up out of that chair. Do you think that if we were able to do something to get you being able to pop up out of that chair more and more quickly and robustly that you'd be able to do these things that you want to be able to do? Oh, yeah, sure. Okay, let's talk about some strategies that we could use to get you there. So it is baked into what I'm already doing. And again, just the context of where you are can impact this. So if somebody's a fitness professional and you have somebody who strolls into your gym and wants to get started with personal training, yeah, they're already addressing this if they have it, but they probably don't have it in the first place, or at least they're less likely. My person who I'm seeing in the hospital for a hip fracture, 100% chance nearly that they already have it because they fell and they very likely have osteoporosis. And so they probably also have sarcopenia. And so I'm like, my case has already closed before I even walk in the room in most of those situations. So that's kind of the spectrum that we're talking about here. Yeah, yeah, good advice. All right, so we know that with poor muscle function as evidenced by reduced strength, power, and overall performance, the risk of losing independence skyrockets. But we want to catch people way before they are at the cliff. So we're going to talk about the physiology because this is where barbell medicine differs from everyone else saying that sarcopenia is just age-related muscle loss. This isn't just atrophy, it's a neurological event, and we'll get into the physiology right after this break. All right, we're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We're talking about sarcopenia. Now we're into the physiology. We're going to go into why does sarcopenia occur in the first place? And I think the overarching sort of paradigm here is that muscle quality decreases. And what is muscle quality? Well, that's a specific term relating to the amount of strength or power. Really, it's force production created per unit mass. Okay, so muscle quality can be measured as the amount of strength, power, force production produced per unit mass. And this goes down in sarcopenia. So the mass may stay the same or decrease a little bit, but the loss of strength, power, and ultimately force production far outpaces that. But why does this happen? So first up, we're going to talk about motor neurons whereas my neuroanatomy professor said motor neurons. And if that is the correct pronunciation, like shout out to Dr. Tolbert, because I've just ignored that you said that for an entire year, do you think it's like umbilicus versus umbilicus? Yeah, it's somebody that probably said it that way with him way back in the day and it stuck. Or like, do you say duodenum or do you say duodenum? Duodenum. Yeah, okay, same. But like in anatomy, when I was doing my anatomy masters, they were like, it's not that. I'm like, okay, well, I'm just gonna be an idiot the rest of my life. In any case, motor neurons, motor neurons, what these are, these are nerves that go from your spinal cord to your muscles, your skeletal muscles. And so specifically what happens as people age is that these alpha motor neurons, these specifically the ones that innervate or connect to your high threshold, fast twitch or type two muscle fibers, these things die. And when these neurons die, a nearby slow neuron tends to sprout a branch to try to go rescue this abandoned muscle fiber. So the muscle fiber itself, if it's connected by one of these sprouts, one of these branches, the muscle fiber typically survives, but then it's converted to a slow twitch or type one muscle fibers. So you lose your high gear from these type two muscle fibers, which is why you lose power first. You lose this writing reflex, the ability to catch yourself when you trip or rising quickly from a chair. And so that's why people fall and ultimately can fracture a hip, for example. This selective loss of type two muscle fibers explains why muscle power declines so much faster than strength, and why strength declines so much faster than muscle size, and that's why falls are common with aging. This kind of leads into this reversibility sort of question, like, can we reverse sarcopenia? Well, you can't regrow a dead motor neuron, you can only strengthen the ones that are left, and this is why prevention tends to be superior to treatment. And so we've got tons of evidence on this. If you take a muscle biopsy of an individual sarcopenia and you look at it under a microscope, you see a dramatic shrinking of the type two muscle fibers by up to 50%, while type one muscle fiber size tends to be the same. And at age 70, an individual may lose 25 to 50% of their alpha motor neurons compared to what they had when they were age 20. And so the next question then becomes, well, why? Why does this happen? Well, these type two muscle fibers, these fast-twitch muscle fibers, they cost a lot. The metabolic demand of these muscle fibers is higher. They also require a lot of signaling from the environment to maintain them. So mechanotransduction, loading them, being active with them, compared to type one muscle fibers that are just like postural, for example, and you're gonna use them regardless of if you exercise or not. And ultimately with this disuse, not only do the muscle fibers like not have any reason to stick around, but the actual satellite cells or stem cells for the muscles that we call satellite cells basically become unresponsive. And so you lose not only the muscle fiber, right? It changes its morphology and the nerve also kind of goes away, but also the machinery you had to repair the muscle fiber when it gets damaged also goes away. And it's mostly from disuse, although again, we can't completely stop this aging, this biological clock. Interestingly though, with training, again, you can't stop the aging process entirely, but strength training is kind of like a firewall here. It doesn't just build muscle, but it changes the survival rate of these type two, these fast-twitch muscle fibers that are typically destined to die. Now, the activity, engaging in resistance training, sends a signal back to the nerve cell, says, hey, look, I'm still needed. Please don't kill me. I need me around. And this is evidenced by master's athletes, specifically those who engage in resistance training. Because you see master's athletes that are endurance athletes. Previously talked about Natalie Grabo, that 80 something year old who completed the Ironman, which also amazing. But if you look at older runners, they generally show high levels of what's called fiber type grouping. Now, normally under a microscope, your muscle looks like a mosaic. You got fast-twitch, slow-twitch, and it looks like a mosaic. When you get these fiber type grouping, that's evidence that your type two muscle fibers have kind of gone away, and they just have a bunch of type one muscle fibers. So endurance performance is great, but they're not doing much with that type of training for these type two fast-twitch muscle fibers. Resistance training, on the other hand, the story is different. Lifelong strength athletes often show less type two fiber loss and a fiber distribution pattern that looks more like a young person's. So heavy resistance training doesn't just help slow the loss of neurons, it prevented the death of them in the first place. So, and this is evidenced by some interesting data in power lifters, so shout out to power lifters, because I know that the person, the author of the study had to be a power lifter to look at power lifters. There's no way anybody else is interested. The typical general population sees a strength decline of about 1% per year after middle age, accelerating significantly after the age of 60 due to, again, this loss of alpha motor neurons. Strength athletes do much better. In this study on power lifters, men over the age of 69 showed a decline of only 0.35% per year, and women over the age of 59 actually displayed a 2.5 to 5% improvement in strength if they kept participating in power lifting. So this neurogenic atrophy or neuron cell death kills type two muscle fibers, and the general population is slowed in lifelong lifters by like 300%. Really the difference is 0.35% to 1%, which I think is pretty awesome. Yeah, that's an awesome finding, very cool, nice find. Everybody should be a power lifter, I think is the take away. We just end the podcast. Yeah. But there's another factor, so that's the story with motor neurons, all right? But there's another factor, it's not just one thing, that one weird trick, there's another thing going on here. Anabolic resistance tends to become much more prevalent. So Dr. Baraki, what is anabolic resistance and why is it so important here? Yeah, it is a concept, another one that we've been talking about for a long time, and we're kind of more formally addressing here, it's this idea that when you deliver at what we'll call a dose of anabolic stimulus to somebody, and those anabolic stimuli tend to be most importantly physical training, or mechanical stimulus to the body, to the muscles, and secondarily to that dose of, say, dietary protein, amino acids, for example, different people will have a different anabolic response to that dose. So some people might mount a very large anabolic response, a lot of muscle protein synthesis, and others might display a more blunted anabolic response, or a lesser degree of muscle protein synthesis. And in this situation that we're calling anabolic resistance, it is kind of the term used to describe that more blunted response to anabolic stimulus. We tend to see it more often in older folks, although again, I kind of hesitate to ascribe it to aging alone, just like when we hesitated to ascribe sarcopenia to aging alone. Anabolic resistance we know is more common in the context of that, what I called multi morbidity, or when people have multiple, you know, concomitant medical conditions, especially in the like very acute settings. So for example, if somebody is admitted to the ICU with a raging illness or bad case of sepsis, multi organ failure or something like that, we know that they tend to be very, very anabolically resistant, not to mention that they're generally laid up in bed nearly 24 hours a day, things like that. But even outside of this condition with complex medical conditions, acute conditions and chronic conditions, those who tend to be less physically active or have more sedentary behavior in general, that tends to be a significant contributor, especially as folks get older as well. Now, we know that this phenomenon of anabolic resistance is not destiny, it is not permanent, it is something that can be overcome if we adjust that dose of stimulus that we deliver to the person. So this has also been studied to where, for example, in exercise contexts, increasing the volume and or the intensity of activity that is being delivered to the person can restore a degree of sensitivity to that anabolic stimulus, meaning that whereas somebody who is generally sedentary and not moving around and then they might do a set or two sets or something of an exercise might get a lesser anabolic response, if we increase that to three sets or four sets or push the intensity a little bit higher of their conditioning activity, we tend to see a more significant muscular response to that activity. And similarly, when we give them a dose of 10 or 15 or 20 grams of dietary protein, including in particular the amino acid leucine, where it might be a gram or two of that, in that dose of protein of up to say 20 grams, they might have a lesser response in terms of their muscle protein synthesis. But if you increase that to 30 grams of protein or even 40 grams of protein, you might restore that anabolic response. I think that this has been taken, maybe because it's telling some people what they want to hear based on their bias of what we'll call it protein maxing these days, to where they think that, oh, if this is, as people get older, they just need to have more and more massive amounts of protein and that'll solve this issue. But this has also been looked at and just increasing protein intake does not meaningfully impact outcomes in these types of situations. It is supportive of adaptation and recovery and things like that to the training, but on its own, you are unlikely to build a significant degree more muscle just by increasing the dietary protein alone. And so for that reason, both of us I think tend to emphasize way more importantly, the idea of the physical activity, the training, as well as addressing any reversible underlying health factors that you can actually address to restore that degree of sensitivity. We even know that if you take folks and they do a little bit of activity prior to the protein meal, that they can be more sensitive to that lower dose again. So it's almost like your post-workout protein bolus from a shake or from a meal or something like that, they're more likely to have some evidence of restored sensitivity to that when it's taken after physical activity, a brisk walk or an actual lift or some interval training, whatever you're able to get them to do, that sensitivity improves rather than somebody tending to remain insufficiently active and just like taking more protein shakes throughout the day is not gonna meaningfully impact their trajectory here. Yeah, further, even like when people are in the hospital and they're on like a steady, a drip of just like, protein and food. And troll feeding, yeah. They become very anabolic resistant. Now some of that is due to the disease process that got them in the hospital the first time, but that food situation is not helping them. Not that the hospital food in and of itself is like anabolic resistant, just the frequency at which it's being administrated, which is continuous is a problem. All right, well now that we know why sarcopenia occurs, let's talk about what to do about it. Now Austin, how do you normally speak to your patients with sarcopenia about management? You know, did the assessment, you got them up out of bed, you had them do the sit to stand maybe and you're like, dang, this person is much weaker than they should be. How do you talk to them about this? Yeah, much like conversations around non-specific low back pain, where I never use the term non-specific low back pain in these situations, I also never really tend to use the term sarcopenia. I basically do the assessment and I again, try to get a sense of what the person's day to day life and function are like and what their goals might be to improve that function if they have those goals or what their general health goals are. And I basically try to find an in into the conversation in real time where I can tie what are going to be my recommendations for managing sarcopenia to something meaningful to the person, right? So it's kind of like when we have conversations about back pain or osteoarthritis or whatever, you know, condition might be ailing them. What do you want to be able to do? And then are you open to negotiating a plan that might help you get to that goal? So making it meaningful to the person. And so it's the same thing here. If the person has no goals or interest or aspiration in improving their health or function, then I can talk to them all day about sarcopenia or that it's increasing their risk of all sorts of things and it's, I'm going to not make any meaningful progress. But if I can get a sense of what the person's life is like, what they want to be able to do that they can't do now, or if they have a particular health goal and tie it to the very demonstrable impaired function that I just showed them by virtue of the fact that they were unable to get up out of a chair, then I might be able to kind of weave a narrative that makes sense to them to where they, you know, by working on that and improving that ability, they will then regain or build the ability to achieve the goal that they had in mind, the meaningful activity or improve their health in the way that matter to them most. So I know that was a very high level, kind of general description, but that's really the approach that I take. There's not a formula to this. It's one of those things where having more experience with having these conversations and the process of motivational interviewing, you end up getting more comfortable listening to people and you can kind of in real time hear these little threads that they're offering up to you that, oh, I might tug on that a little bit and see if that ends up being a useful lead point into this process of, you know, here's a way that we can intervene or something that we can negotiate a plan that ties into something that you care about and that you're willing to, you know, have some buy-in. And if I have a family member there or a spouse there or a sibling or somebody who is able to kind of be present as well to listen to this conversation, maybe to contribute to the conversation, maybe to offer to join in to this process, that's another way that I sometimes do this in practice. Even, and this applies to general exercise counseling as well. I remember recently having a gentleman in the hospital for a new onset atrial fibrillation and he had obesity and he drank, you know, too much alcohol and he had just some metabolic syndrome and various risk factors for developing a fib. And I had this whole conversation and he was unaware that any of those things contributed to his atrial fibrillation and he really wanted to, you know, address it because of various, you know, life circumstances that I'll leave out for now, but his wife was there as well and she was all about it and they were both, you know, willing to, you know, leave the hospital and act on this, especially knowing that by intervening on these things, it would impact something meaningful to them while also reducing his risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation. So that's kind of the key method that I would apply. And so recommendations for people who are wanting to get into it really has to do with getting some experience and practice with motivational interviewing. And then if you have the really solid understanding of the condition that you're trying to intervene on, then you can kind of weave those things together in real time much more effectively. Yeah, yeah, that to me is where the fund of knowledge stuff where you know the pathophysiology, you know what the person, you know, the risk factors and so on and so forth, you can take that with your fund of knowledge with respect to exercise prescription, weave them together and bada-bing bada-boom. Yeah, that's 100% success rate, that's how that works. We wish. When I think about management here, I think about two distinct sort of like use cases. One is gonna be prevention and the other one is gonna be, well, what do after someone has received a diagnosis of either sarcopenia or like, you know, at risk for sarcopenia. So let's start with prevention. In both cases, exercise is gonna be one of the biggest lever that we can pull as far as why. Well, we know that we retain muscle plasticity, whether we have sarcopenia or not, but even in old age, you can get stronger even into the 90s. We have good evidence of that. And we know that exercise, specifically resistance training, reduces the loss of those motor neurons. So you don't lose the type two muscle fibers. So you don't lose the strength and the power. So you don't have the fall. So you don't break your hip. So you don't end up seeing Dr. Baraki. There are easier ways to see Dr. Baraki than breaking your hip in the state of Texas. We know we have good evidence from master's athletes showing that it slows down aging and also preserves muscle mass and other interesting things within the muscle, the muscle capitalization. So how many blood capillaries do you have? Which is important for amino acids to make their way to the muscles, for sugar to make its way to the muscles, all these sorts of things. As far, so that's the why. As far as how, the physical activity guidelines are fine. Resistance train twice a week, do at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, that would be like steady state stuff. Or you can do 75 minutes, at least of vigorous intensity. Conditions would be a little harder where you can't really speak in short sentences. For example, that's like the minimum. I'd probably prefer something close to like double that because I think there are additional benefits afterwards. Not only on function and performance, but also in like reducing risk of sarcopenia later on. Basically you get to build this big base of physical development. Your 401K, your physical 401K is fully funded. And should you need to make a withdrawal later, well, you got some in reserve. And also you can be aggressive, with more aggressive with respect to actually delivering that training load to an individual. Mostly because these people are starting with a higher level of fitness, generally because they have less medical comorbidities. There's been less sort of disuse over the years. And so you can be a little more aggressive as far as working up to that. You should still be gradual, but you don't have to take special care because the population you're dealing with is less frail, less risk, less risky. So that's the exercise situation. From a nutrition standpoint, we'd still recommend getting about 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per total kilogram body weight. That's kilogram body weight. So you could, if you want to think 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound, that's fine per day. But there's no micromanagement here. Meaning like I'm not worried about where you're getting the protein from. I'm not worried about how much protein's in each meal, anything like that. Just at the end of the day, are you getting about this much protein? And that's all well and good. Check the box. Supplements in this.  ab excuses. And I read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on need for all of the protein to be animal derived for like optimal efficiency and bioavailability and things like that. And we have talked about this before that when studies have looked at actual outcomes of muscle gain and strength gain when people are consuming enough protein in the doses that we're recommending, it actually doesn't matter whether it comes from animal or plant derived sources. And we can make an argument that for when people tend to bias it more in that plant derived direction, they also will tend to derive a number of additional health benefits as well. And so to the extent that if I have somebody with cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and they're asking me, should I continue or you're telling me I need protein, should I be consuming a couple rib eyes a day or should I consume a variety of protein sources from beans and legumes and lentils and tofu and various other sorts of plant derived sources, I would say, I'm not strictly in opposition to animal derived protein sources, but I definitely encourage the consumption of many of those plant derived sources as well because those will also stand to benefit your underlying medical conditions to a greater degree. Your cardiovascular disease, your chronic kidney disease, things like that, especially when consumed in sufficient doses, there's a lot of other benefits to be had from the other plant derived compounds, the polyphenols, the fiber content, the differences in fat composition and impact on lipids and all sorts of other things. So yeah, I don't, I want to strongly distinguish our recommendations here for nutrition compared with what folks might hear in many other conversations around sarcopenia in this space that like aggressively narrow in on it has to be animal derived for bioavailability reasons or some other nonsense like that. Yeah, not an evidence base take. And further, if you're like, well, look, but whey is animal derived, I should replace my whey protein with soy protein and then boom, more plant based. That's what they said. That's probably not going to make a difference. In fact, I'd feel strongly that it's not, but instead if you're getting more protein instead of it being steak or, you know, other sort of protein like that, and instead of you're getting it from plant based sources, whether it's tofu or something similar, that's what we're talking about. More vegetable matter, more plant matter, generally speaking, it just tends to displace foods that are high in calories, not very filling, low in fiber and may have other sort of things that you really want to limit to some degree like saturated fats from animal sources, for example. But yeah, just swapping like a whey protein shake for a soy protein shake is not going to do anything. All right. So that's the story with preventing sarcopenia to the extent that we can. And then from a health perspective under that umbrella, look, try to avoid obviously any chronic medical condition and the ones that you do have, try to optimize them, address them. Don't just say, later when I'm older, because all of these things can certainly contribute to developing secondary sarcopenia like we mentioned earlier. Now, so that's the first kind of umbrella or bucket that I kind of think about. The second one is individuals who have been diagnosed with sarcopenia or who are at high risk for sarcopenia. The first level we're going to try to pull here is exercise again. And why? Well, we can't regain the motor neurons that we've already lost, but we can still get stronger both in low velocity sort of applications, so traditional resistance training, but also high velocity stuff, so more power, which is better for avoiding falls, which is better for avoiding that hip fracture as a secondary to that fall. So you can improve performance. All that is well and good. Now, when you look at the evidence on actual training outcomes, those things readily improve strength, low and high velocities, that's power, readily improve and improve performance on whatever performance battery you want to give somebody. Improving muscle mass seems to be a little more challenging, but I'm kind of okay with that. Folks to get jacked too, but if they don't gain a bunch of muscle mass, but gain a bunch of function, that's better for sure. And we can also then preserve existing muscle and improve its function, ultimately better quality of life. So that's the why. Easy sell for most folks, especially if they already have a diagnosis of sarcopenia. As far as how, well, this is where it starts to get a little different. So we want people to get at least to these physical activity guidelines and ultimately beyond, but because they're more vulnerable, likely due to a long-term chronic disuse, right? So insufficient activity and being ultimately under-trained, they're a little more vulnerable to the dosing right out of the gate. So starting a little bit lower than you otherwise would is reasonable advice. But in saying that, I also must speak out of the other side of my mouth that I have a lot of concerns about under-loading and under-training this population. You want to avoid injury risk, for example, but you also want to avoid spinning your wheels and just saying, yeah, this is good enough, like just walking, for example, or lifting very, very light weights that aren't anywhere close to failure or intentionally slow tempos for some particular reason. All of these things would be less likely to provide benefits. So you're kind of riding a fine line here, and ultimately you would want an experienced individual to be at the helm. But yeah, we are offering some resources for this, so I just redid our beginner program. Now previously, this was mostly for younger individuals or other folks who kind of made their way to barbell medicine, and they're like, what do you do? I'm just starting out. What do I do? This is more public-facing, but there's going to be a number of different programs in there. One is an express sort of program. It's two days a week. It's completely based on machines and dumbbells. Whether or not this is more accessible to the general public, I suspect yes, just because it's like, look, I can do a leg press all day, but you want me to squat with a bar on my back, I'm not going to do it. While I'd like to unpack that later, I can't do that in an article, at least not to my satisfaction. So that's going to be one of the included templates. It might be perceived as less intimidating, ultimately easier to increase participation, and there'll be a version of that that's aimed at individuals who are either at risk for sarcopenia or who have sarcopenia. So it's going to be a slightly lower dose. So you get those two templates, a more three-day traditional-type template for folks who are like, look, I'm 25 years old. I've never lifted weights before, but I want to be serious about it. What do? So you get all of that. That's coming out this week, so stay tuned to the Barbell Medicine Channels. You'll check that out. Now, existing data on optimal programming appears very weak for individuals with sarcopenia, and I suspect it's either AI-generated or some sort of English second language-type thing because this is like the latest meta-analysis on this, and I'm going to read a direct quote from this. Okay. A recommended 19-week program includes three sessions per week at 49% of a 1RM, featuring 15 exercises per set, six sets, and 16 repetitions per exercise, totaling up to 1,400 reps weekly. This is a quote? That is a direct quote. This is the worst AI hallucination I've ever, either that or the worst coach I've ever heard. 100%. Yeah. So, yeah, unfortunately, there's not great guidelines here for optimal programming metrics. Now, just the way I think about programming in general, one of the acronyms that's used to your frequently is fit VP, where that stands for frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, and progression. Right? Now, frequency is mostly a tool that we can leverage to distribute the exercise over the course of generally a week based on a person's preferences. It doesn't really matter how you split it up, provided a person can do it. All right? So, that's mostly a personal preference thing. Intensity, on the other hand, is not really negotiable here. We need the individual to be lifting weights with a rep range somewhere between like three to 20 reps, and most of those sets should be fairly challenging but not maximal. So, depending on the rep scheme that you pick, that's going to determine the absolute load on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, but it should be pretty challenging. So, that's the intensity that you can't mail that in. It has to be somewhat challenging, and they should try to move each rep with intention quickly if possible. They try to get those fast-twitch muscle fibers to stick around. Time, this is mostly related to conditioning, but they should be doing conditioning as well, because this appears to combat not only anabolic resistance, it improves the mitochondrial dysfunction that is prevalent in individuals with sarcopenia and concurrent training is not a problem, plus all of the other sarcopenia-independent-type benefits of cardiovascular fitness improvement. So, that's time. As far as type, exercise selection is really up to the individual what they're willing to do. If you want machines, that's fine. You want dumbbells, that's fine. You want free weights, like barbell-based, that's fine. Two kettlebells, I don't care. Just have to do it. I do think there are some unique benefits with freestanding exercise from like a balanced perspective and like moving the body in space. Perhaps that would be useful to an individual who's worried about falls, for example. But on the other hand, a person who's already worried about falls, ask them to walk out of weight and be challenging, and perhaps that would limit the load that they can use, ultimately compromising their outcomes. In that case, a leg press might be a better, quote, strengthening exercise to start, whereas the squat training like a freestanding squat would be more like skill practice at first. And then volume, again, I said it's going to be a little lower than you would otherwise want, but gradually increasing over time. And progression is the same as we've always described. Progressive loading as somebody's fitness improves, as their training tolerance improves, as they get stronger, they are required to put more weight on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, to match their newfound fitness. That's the story on programming. You'll see that reflected in the new Sarcopenia version of the Express Beginner program. That'll be up on the website. It'll be freely available, so your parents won't have to download the Marbelle Medicine app to get a free program. But yeah, we'll have that. So that's the training story. Nutrition story is much the same, but with some additional nuances. So the same protein target, 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day, or like 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound. But there is some micro-management here, because I do really want each meal to contain a significant protein bolus, meaning that I don't want them to have all of their protein at one meal, and I don't want all of the protein to be from sources that don't contain all the essential amino acids or a high concentration of them. It doesn't mean they should avoid plant-based proteins entirely, but paying some additional attention to this can be important for two reasons. One, anabolic resistance is prevalent, but the big issue, I'm less concerned about that, particularly in an active population, I'm more concerned with these folks. Their appetite tends to be low. They tend not eat a lot of protein in general anyway, and so if they're just like, oh, I get more protein from beans, and you're like, well, that's true, and I like the fiber, and I like all the other stuff, but I really want something that has more essential amino acids in it. So a whey protein supplement can be pretty useful here, particularly for individuals who struggle meeting their protein target. I also feel maybe slightly more optimistic about how creatine could positively affect somebody's life. There does seem to be some good data here on it improving lean mass outcomes and improve sit-to-stand performance compared to individuals receiving a placebo. You don't need to take 20 grams a day like that idiot Rhonda Patrick said. You can take three to five grams per day. That's the dose. If somebody wants, that's fine. There are other sort of supplement recommendations that have very weak evidence and would not routinely recommend. So like vitamin D, it has some evidence around reduced fall risk and improved bone health. So if an individual has osteoporosis, they're going to be on vitamin D or have been recommended to take vitamin D anyway, but I don't think it changes anything with respect to sarcopenia proper. I got fish oil and I saw HMB in one of these papers and I was like, we know that HMB doesn't do anything. So I would not recommend those two routinely. Vitamin D, I'm kind of whatever. Do you feel differently about vitamin D since you're the vitamin D whisperer? Right. No. No. I mean, I agree that this population, similar to how I described how like my hospital population is enriched for those with sarcopenia, those with sarcopenia most often due to the collection of medical conditions that they have are also enriched for having vitamin D deficiency. If the person is willing to take a supplement to improve that, then that's fine. But I'm not similar to creatine. I'm not pitching it as a game changer and certainly not as like getting equal emphasis in our conversation compared with training. Yep. Yep. Biggest level to pull for sure is going to be training for sure. And lastly about medicine. So individuals with sarcopenia tend to have multiple medical problems and so optimizing this chronic disease management from a medical standpoint would be useful like obesity. For example, we'll talk a little bit more about this in about 180 seconds. If somebody has testosterone deficiency, that would be a good time to potentially investigate that. It does. If you have an individual testosterone deficiency and then they're placed on testosterone replacement therapy, TRT, they do see an increase in muscle mass. But improvements in gait speed or like physical battery tests don't necessarily go up if a person is not actually exercising. Just again, showing that mechanotransduction is the ruler of all these things. You have to exercise. Yep. 100%. And other things, if somebody's got autoimmune disease, inflammatory condition, other sort of primary disease, that should be optimized as well. And then also something that may kind of be last on your list of things to do. Just last on our outline here is a sort of medication reconciliation. So beta blockers, for example, or glucocorticoids or other medications that either promote anabolic resistance or otherwise lead to decreased exercise or reduced exercise intensity are all of these things. That's tough. Yeah. I would not recommend just coming off these things just because you're listening to this podcast. Don't go pour grandma's medications down the toilet. That's not what we're saying, but these are things to have conversations about the risks and benefits, especially because sarcopenia and decreased sort of function can compromise somebody's ability to live independently. Yeah. These are things that are, I think, underrated in terms of their importance to talk about. And unfortunately, in the same way that not all clinicians are going to be as facile and comfortable with the types of conversations that I described earlier with patients around this, many clinicians get out of date or lazy with their use of medicines in this space. So routine use of beta blockers for blood pressure management and there are other situations where beta blockers have historically been used that now we're learning are probably not ideal uses. So in certain forms of heart failure, we thought maybe it would help and now we're using less of it in, again, certain types of heart failure or in certain other contexts where there are some types of beta blockers that are better than others. And then certainly with glucocorticoids or thin medicines like prednisone, especially when they're prescribed all the time for bouts of back pain and things like that, not ideal, of course, that's usually for a relatively short, short course, but repeated short courses over time can be problematic if they're potentially avoidable. And then if certainly if somebody's on long term prednisone, that's more often like for a reason. But if it's being done by a wise clinician, they should also have in the back of their mind, hey, what methods can I use to try to get this person on the lowest dose possible or on a steroid sparing agent to get them off of the glucocorticoid or the prednisone altogether, because that is almost always preferable to somebody being on long term prednisone therapy as an example. Yep. All right. Now we're going to transition to the last part of this podcast, lightning round. Quick answers to some common internet comments surrounding sarcopenia. First off, and this is one of the things that maybe initiated the development of barbell medicine. Walking is enough. Just walk more. You know, walking has had kind of a glow up, you know, hot girl walks. I don't know if there's an analogous hot dude walks, but if I'm trying to do that, walking is enough. Decidedly, no, in this case, we have good evidence from endurance athletes who, by the way, are doing way more than just walking, much more intensity, but they still do not avoid that type two muscle fiber loss. So no, not going to be enough. Have to do resistance training. It has to be challenging enough to force those type two muscle fibers, those motor neurons or motor neurons, depending on how you say it, to stick around. Non-negotiable. Walking is not enough. Walking is great. You got to listen weights too. Yeah, I agree. And I think, you know, to put a firmer point on this, you mentioned a little bit of a distinction between those in whom we're trying to prevent sarcopenia versus those who already have it and in whom we're trying to treat it. And it kind of reminds me to some extent of our discussions around like cardiovascular disease, for example, where given that it's a lifelong process, if you start away earlier in life, you don't necessarily have to be quite as aggressive, right? You can do some just like, you know, relatively low level run of the activity, do a little bit of lifting here and there. And even though it might not be enough to maximize your strength or your conditioning, it may will be enough to prevent you from developing significant sarcopenia in older age if you're consistent with it across your entire lifespan. Similar to, you know, reasonable control of your blood pressure or your blood lipids throughout your life is probably enough to avert the risk of a cardiovascular event pretty significantly. On the other hand, after somebody has a heart attack, as an example of a cardiovascular event, we have to like turn up the dial to 11 on our control of their risk factors, get their blood pressure as well controlled as we can, get their lipids as tightly controlled as we can. We get very aggressive, very fast after one of those types of events. And in the same way, if somebody does have clinic, what we'll call clinical sarcopenia or certainly a complication from it, like if they have a significant fall with consequences with or without a fracture, for example, suddenly I'm like, you know, wanting to be much more aggressive and particular with all of these things. Now, it might not be the same where where I'm able to immediately institute maximum dose strength and conditioning training, but it's much more essential that they do it and that we progress it, you know, as aggressively as their physiology and recovery will tolerate if we want to reduce the risk of further complications down the line. So the stakes get higher, the intensity of your intervention has to get higher as well. Is the Pilates craze going to contribute to an increase in sarcopenia prevalence in about 20 years from now? I don't know that it's going to increase in prevalence, but it's probably not going to significantly decrease the prevalence. Not helping. Not helping. That's for sure. Also, excellent spinal tap reference. All right. Lightning around question number two. Well, isn't it true that if I stop lifting, a muscle is going to turn into fat? No, there are two distinct tissues, thing one. So it's not like just the muscle that you have is going to like turn into fat. Well, and just like the fat that you have is not going to turn into muscle. That said, as Austin talked about earlier, myosteatosis and lipotexicity is real. You get this lipid overflow of excess fat and it gets deposited in the muscle cells. Now this does all sorts of weird stuff. One, it exacerbates insulin resistance so the muscle is less responsive to all sorts of cool stuff like protein, like glucose, like mechanotransduction. And it also damages the mitochondria in the muscles themselves. So it makes it work. They don't work quite as well. Still, the biggest change that happens between these two compartments, muscle and fat, as people age, they tend to lose strength, which outpaces the muscle size loss and fat mass also tends to grow. But they're not transitioning to one or the other. So that doesn't work. Okay, Austin, take on this, the third lightning round question. It's unsafe to lift after 60. Old people can't lift heavy. What's up with that? Yeah, my admittedly anecdotal evidence on this that I'll share with you is that I'm thinking back over my past, say, decade seeing people in an emergency department and hospital setting. And I have admitted probably zero patients in the 60-plus demographic to the hospital for a complication of lifting. They certainly might show up for a tweak or a strain or a sprain or some ache or pain or routine musculoskeletal injury that are, as we have talked about before, they tend to be non-catastrophic. Whereas I have admitted, presumably, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of folks whose conditions may well have been mitigated or prevented altogether if they had been lifting across the lifespan, even if there was some degree of trade-off for some nominal increase in musculoskeletal ache, pain, or injury risk, which in my mind would be acceptable to me, compared with the risk and complications that I observe in terms of their cardiometabolic health, falls, fractures, injuries, all sorts of other things that are more significant. So if I were seeing septigenarians coming into the hospital left and right for deadlift complications, then we'd be having a different conversation, but ain't the case. So my argument is that it is much riskier to not lift in this demographic than it is to lift. Yeah, life is not a risk-free endeavor. And you have a risk of injury even if you don't exercise. And fortunately, the risk of lifting weights, even heavy weights, even if you don't do it with, quote, perfect form, is relatively low. That state on this is about two to four injuries per thousand participation hours, which is not dissimilar from cycling or recreational walking, particularly if you include motor vehicle accidents that happen there. But that's a separate podcast. In this population, lifting is also very safe. There's not an influx of just injuries, even when they're doing powertraining, like plyometrics, which I probably wouldn't exactly have folks do, but sure, maybe. So yeah, relatively safe. And the risk of not exercising far outweighs the risk from lifting heavy. Most injuries that do occur are not catastrophic. They resolve on their own within about two weeks. They don't require specialized medical attention. So yeah, you should lift. Last lightning round question. Well, Dr. Baraki, look, man, all these GLP-1 agonists, ozempic, wagovie, zepbound, et cetera, aren't they just causing sarcopenia? They are definitely not in general. Now, I will say that there have been some situations where, for example, I have seen maybe a patient who had advanced cancer and they also had diabetes and they were on one of these medicines for their diabetes. And maybe they started cancer treatment and they had no appetite and they're losing weight. And I'm like, okay, well, maybe this isn't the best medicine for you. Those cases are few and far between. As we will discuss on another upcoming podcast discussing GLP-1 agonists in very great degree of detail, these medicines are very useful. And despite the hysteria around them reducing, quote unquote, lean body mass, we'll talk about in that episode, there's differences between impacts on lean body mass versus on muscle mass. Those are not the same thing. And additionally, as we have made the case this entire podcast, muscle mass is not the primary variable of interest here because we know that it's possible to have more muscle mass, but poorer muscle quality if there's a whole bunch of fat in it. And so based on some other very interesting recent evidence, based on certain diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia, the semilean study that you have cited and that we'll talk about there as well actually showed that it reduced the incidence of sarcopenia because as people lost weight, their physical function improved as you addressed their obesity, their physical function was able to get better, which actually led more people to no longer meet criteria for sarcopenia. So I think that obviously clinicians need to use their brain when they're prescribing these medicines. So if somebody's coming in with a starting BMI of 20, probably not the best patient to start on a high dose of GLP-1, although depending on how this class of drugs evolves in the future, there may be some that have maybe a more deliberate less impact on body weight and appetite and more impact on maybe substance use tendencies or various other things. That's a TBD, but this is not a great source of concern for me at the moment. And none of this obviates the need for people to just train. So even if you are on one of these, you need to be training regardless. That's our strongest recommendation. Yeah, agreed. Yeah, for all the, as you said, hysteria surrounding the potential of excessive muscle loss. Show me the data. Show me the data. And until then, I would not say that confidently or with like a lot of panic surrounding the message, but it's a reasonable hypothesis and we want to be risk averse, but like, where's the data? Yeah. All right, let's wrap this up. Sarcopenia is not a disease of the elderly, but rather it is a process that begins much earlier in life when an individual can build their physiological reserve or fund their physical 401k, if you like, finance analogies. First, we must move away from the focus on muscle mass and especially conflating it with lean body mass in general. The real enemy is dynappinia, the loss of force and power, a large muscle that cannot generate force is a liability, not an asset. Second, regarding diagnosis, if you wait for a DEXA scan or for your doctor to tell you that you're sarcopenic, you're too late. Functional tests like gate speed, sit to stand tests and similar are early warning signs that you or a loved one might have sarcopenia. Third, on reversibility, we cannot regrow dead motor neurons. However, we can still intervene with exercise and make sure the remaining fibers are preserved and functioning well. For the healthy individual, the goal is to fund your physical 401k as much as possible, build strength and proficiency across a wide variety of different exercises, rep range and tasks. Generally speaking, get as fit as possible. Future you will thank you. For the person who has or is at risk of sarcopenia at the time to act is now. Start with relatively low volume training and gradually increase from there, making sure that they're pushing themselves, lifting relatively challenging weights and moving the loads as fast as they can. The risk of under training and under loading a person with sarcopenia far outweighs the relatively small risk of injury in this population. Finally, nutrition. Most individuals would benefit from eating an additional serving of two of high quality protein each day, but this becomes even more important for those with sarcopenia where appetite is relatively low and the likelihood of anabolic resistance is high. Making sure each meal has a good dose of high quality protein is likely to be beneficial. Supplementing with a weight protein that's third party tested can be useful, especially for those who struggle to eat enough. However, eating more protein alone will not significantly improve sarcopenia absent of physical training. Don't wait until you or a loved one is weak. The time to start investing yourself is now. And with that, that is a wrap on the Barbell Medicine Podcast on sarcopenia. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us and sharing his expertise. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all latest nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: Sarcopenia Management： Exercise & Nutrition for Muscle Loss Prevention (Prevention & Treatment) [_HmqXmPhdU4].txt ===

! NACnum mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage into the 90s. We have good evidence of that. And we know that exercise, specifically resistance training, reduces the loss of those motor neurons so you don't lose the type 2 muscle fiber, so you don't lose the strength and the power, so you don't have the fall, so you don't break your hip, so you don't end up seeing Dr. Baraki. There are easier ways to see Dr. Baraki than breaking your hip in the state of Texas. We know we have good evidence from master's athletes showing that it slows down aging and also preserves muscle mass and other interesting things within the muscle, the muscle capillarization, so how many blood capillaries do you have, which is important for amino acids to make their way to the muscles, for sugar to make its way to the muscles, all these sorts of things. So that's the why. As far as how, the physical activity guidelines are fine. Resistance train twice a week, do at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, that would be like steady state stuff, or you can do 75 minutes at least of vigorous intensity conditions would be a little harder where you can't really speak in short sentences, for example. That's like the minimum. I'd probably prefer something close to like double that because I think there are additional benefits afterwards, not only on function and performance, but also in like reducing risk of sarcopenia later on. Basically, you get to build this big base of physical development. Your 401k, your physical 401k is fully funded, and should you need to make a withdrawal later, well, you got some in reserve. And also, you can be aggressive, more aggressive with respect to actually delivering that training load to an individual, mostly because these people are starting with a higher level of fitness, generally because they have less medical comorbidities. There's been less sort of disuse over the years, and so you can be a little more aggressive as far as working up to that. You should still be gradual, but you don't have to take special care because the population you're dealing with is less frail, less risky. So that's the exercise situation. From a nutrition standpoint, we'd still recommend getting about 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per total kilogram body weight. That's kilogram body weight. So if you want to think 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound, that's fine per day, but there's no micromanagement here, meaning like I'm not worried about where you're getting the protein from. I'm not worried about how much protein's in each meal, anything like that. Just at the end of the day, are you getting about this much protein? And that's all well and good. Check the box. Supplements in this case would be per preference for individuals who want a protein supplement because they otherwise aren't getting enough protein or it's easier for them or they're using as a meal replacement to displace other foods. That's all fine. They want to take creatine. That's fine. Modest effect. But I don't really feel strongly that a person needs supplements outside of personal preferences. Yeah. And I would want to point out here regarding the dietary protein sources. I mean, if you listen to a lot of folks in this space, they will, you know, aggressively harp on the need for all of the protein to be animal derived for like optimal efficiency and bioavailability and things like that. Nah. And we have talked about this before that when studies have looked at actual outcomes of muscle gain and strength gain when people are consuming enough protein in the doses that we're recommending. It actually doesn't matter whether it comes from animal or plant derived sources. And we can make an argument that for when people tend to bias it more in that plant derived direction, they also will tend to derive a number of additional health benefits as well. And so, you know, to the extent that somebody, if I have somebody with cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and they're asking me, should I, you know, continue or you're telling me I need protein, should I be consuming, you know, a couple of ribeyes a day or should I consume a variety of protein sources from, you know, beans and legumes and lentils and tofu and various other sorts of plant derived sources? I would say, you know, I'm not strictly in opposition to animal derived protein sources, but I definitely encourage the consumption of many of those plant derived sources as well, because those will also stand to benefit your underlying medical conditions to a greater degree, your cardiovascular disease, your chronic kidney disease, your, you know, things like that, especially when consumed in sufficient doses, there's a lot of other benefits to be had from the other plant derived compounds, the polyphenols, the fiber content, the differences in fat composition and impact on lipids and all sorts of other things. So yeah, I don't, I want to strongly, you know, distinguish our recommendations here for nutrition compared with what folks might hear in many other conversations around sarcopenia in this space that like aggressively narrow in on it has to be animal derived for bioavailability reasons or some other nonsense like that. Yeah, not an evidence based take. And further, if you're like, well, look, but whey is animal derived, I should replace my whey protein with soy protein, and then boom, more plant based. That's what they said. That's probably not going to make a difference. In fact, I feel strongly that it's not. But instead, if you're getting more protein, instead of it's it being steak, or you know, other sort of protein like that, and you instead of you're getting it from plant based sources, whether it's tofu or something similar, that's, that's what we're talking about. More vegetable matter, more plant matter, generally speaking, it just tends to displace foods that are high in calories, not very filling low in fiber and may have other sort of things that you really want to limit to some degree, like saturated fats from from animal sources, for example. But yeah, just swapping like a whey protein shake for a soy protein shake is is not going to do anything. All right. So that's the story with preventing sarcopenia to the extent that we can. And then from a health perspective, under that umbrella, look, try to avoid, obviously, any chronic medical condition, and the ones that you do have, try to optimize them, address them. Don't just say later when I'm older, because all of these things can certainly contribute to developing secondary sarcopenia, like we mentioned earlier. Now, that's umbrella, that's the first kind of umbrella or bucket that I kind of think about. The second one is individuals who've been diagnosed with sarcopenia or who are at high risk for sarcopenia. The first lever we're trying to try to pull here is exercise again. And why? Well, we can't regain the motor neurons that we've already lost, but we can still get stronger, both in low velocity sort of applications. So traditional resistance training, but also high velocity stuff. So more power, which is better for avoiding falls, which is better for avoiding that hip fracture as a secondary to that fall. So you can improve performance. All that is well and good. Now, when you look at the evidence on actual training outcomes, those things readily improve strength, low and high velocities, that's power, readily improve and improve performance on whatever performance battery you want to give somebody. Improving muscle mass seems to be a little more challenging, but I'm kind of okay with that. Look, I want folks to get jacked too, but if they don't gain a bunch of muscle mass, but gain a bunch of function, that's better for sure. And we can also then preserve existing muscle and improve its function, ultimately better quality of life. So that's the why. Easy sell for most folks, especially if they already have a diagnosis of sarcopenia. As far as how, well, this is where it starts to get a little different. So we want people to get at least to these physical activity guidelines and ultimately beyond, but because they're more vulnerable, likely due to long-term chronic disuse, right? So insufficient activity and being ultimately undertrained, they're a little more vulnerable to the dosing right out of the gate. So starting a little bit lower than you otherwise would is reasonable advice. But in saying that, I also must speak out of the other side of my mouth that I have a lot of concerns about underloading and undertraining this population. Yeah, you want to avoid injury risk, for example, but you also want to avoid spinning your wheels and just saying, yeah, this is good enough. Like just walking, for example, or lifting very, very light weights that aren't anywhere close to failure or intentionally slow tempos for some particular reason. All of these things would be less likely to provide benefits. So you're kind of riding a fine line here. And ultimately, you would want an experienced individual to be at the helm. But yeah, we are offering some resources for this. So I just redid our beginner program. Now, previously, this was mostly for younger individuals or other folks who kind of made their way to barbell medicine. And they're like, what do you do? I'm just starting out. What do I do? This is more public facing, but there's going to be a number of different programs in there. One is an express sort of program. It's two days a week. It's completely based on machines and dumbbells. Whether or not this is more accessible to the general public, I suspect yes, just because it's like, look, I can do a leg press all day, but you want me to squat with a bar on my back? I'm not going to do it. While I'd like to unpack that later, I can't do that in an article, at least not to my satisfaction. So that's going to be one of the included templates. It might be perceived as less intimidating, ultimately easier to increase participation. And there'll be a version of that that's aimed at individuals who are either at risk for sarcopenia or who have sarcopenia. So it's going to be a slightly lower dose. So you get those two templates, a more three-day traditional type template for folks who are like, look, I'm 25 years old. I've never lifted weights before, but I want to be serious about it. What do? So you get all of that. That's coming out this week. So stay tuned to the barbell medicine channels. You'll check that out. Now, existing data on optimal programming appears very weak for individuals with sarcopenia. And I suspect it's either AI generated or some sort of English second language type thing, because this is like the latest meta-analysis on this. And I'm going to read a direct quote from this. Okay. A recommended 19-week program includes three sessions per week at 49% of a 1RM, featuring 15 exercises per set, six sets, and 16 repetitions per exercise, totaling up to 1,400 reps weekly. This is a quote? That is a direct quote. This is the worst AI hallucination I've ever heard. Either that or the worst coach I've ever heard. 100%. Yeah. So yeah, unfortunately, there's not great guidelines here for optimal sort of programming metrics. Now, just the way I think about programming in general, one of the acronyms that's used here frequently is FITVP, where that stands for frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, and progression, right? Now, frequency is mostly a tool that we can leverage to distribute the exercise over the course of generally a week based on a person's preferences. It doesn't really matter how you split it up, provided a person can do it, right? So that's mostly a personal preference thing. Intensity, on the other hand, is not really negotiable here. We need the individual to be lifting weights with a rep range somewhere between like three to 20 reps. And most of those sets should be fairly challenging, but not maximal. So depending on the rep scheme that you pick, that's going to determine the absolute load on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, but it should be pretty challenging. So that's the intensity bit. You can't mail that in. It has to be somewhat challenging, and they should try to move each rep with intention quickly, if possible. Try to get those fast-twitch muscle fibers to stick around. Time, this is mostly related to conditioning, but they should be doing conditioning as well because this appears to combat not only anabolic resistance, it improves the mitochondrial dysfunction that is prevalent in individuals with sarcopenia, and concurrent training is not a problem, plus all of the other sarcopenia-independent-type benefits of cardiorespiratory fitness improvement. So that's time. As far as type, exercise selection is really up to the individual what they're willing to do. If you want machines, that's fine. You want dumbbells, that's fine. You want free weights, like barbell-based, that's fine, too. Kettlebells, I don't care. You just have to do it. I do think there are some unique benefits with freestanding exercise from like a balance perspective and like moving the body in space. Perhaps that would be useful to an individual who's worried about falls, for example. But on the other hand, a person who's already worried about falls, ask them to walk out of weight and be challenging, and perhaps that would limit the load that they can use, ultimately compromising their outcomes. In that case, a leg press might be a better quote strengthening exercise to start, whereas the squat training like a freestanding squat would be more like skill practice at first. Sure. And then volume, again, I said it's going to be a little lower than you would otherwise want, but gradually increasing over time. And progression is the same as we've always described, progressive loading. As somebody's fitness improves, as their training tolerance improves, as they get stronger, they are required to put more weight on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, to match their newfound fitness. That's the story on programming. You'll see that reflected in the new sarcopenia version of the express beginner program that'll be up on the website, it'll be freely available. So you your parents won't have to download the barbell medicine app to get a free program. But yeah, we'll have that. So that's the training story. Nutrition story is much the same, but with some additional nuances. So the same protein target 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day, or like 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound. But there is some micromanagement here, because I do really want each meal to contain a significant protein bolus, meaning that I don't want them to have all of their protein at one meal. And I don't want all of the protein to be from sources that don't contain all the essential amino acids or a high concentration of them. Doesn't mean they should avoid plant-based proteins entirely. But some additional pain, some additional attention to this can be important for two reasons. One, anabolic resistance is prevalent. But the big issue, I'm less concerned about that, particularly in an active population, I'm more concerned with these folks, their appetite tends to be low. They tend not eat a lot of protein at in general anyway. And so if they're just like, oh, I get more protein from beans, and you're like, well, that's true. And I like the fiber, and I like all the other stuff. But I really want something that has more essential amino acids in it. So a whey protein supplement can be pretty useful here, particularly for individuals who have who struggle meeting their protein target. I also feel maybe slightly more optimistic about how creatine could positively affect somebody's life. There does seem to be some good data here on it improving lean mass outcomes compared and improve sit to stand performance compared to individuals receiving a placebo. You don't need to, you know, take 20 grams a day like that idiot Rhonda Patrick said, you can take three to five grams per day. That's the dose. If somebody wants, that's fine. There are other sort of supplement recommendations that have very weak evidence and would not routinely recommend. So like vitamin D, it has some evidence around reduced fall risk and improved bone health. So if an individual has osteoporosis, they're going to be on vitamin D or have been recommended to take vitamin D anyway. But I don't think it changes anything with respect to sarcopenia proper. Same thing about fish oil. And I saw HMB in one of these papers and I was like, we know that HMB doesn't do anything. So I would not recommend those two routinely vitamin D. I'm kind of whatever. Do you feel differently about vitamin D since you're the vitamin D whisperer? Right? No, no. I mean, I agree that this population similar, similar to how I described how like my hospital population is enriched for those with sarcopenia, those with sarcopenia, most often due to the collection of medical conditions that they have are also, I'll say enriched for by having vitamin D deficiency that, you know, if the person is willing to take a supplement to improve that, then that's fine. But I'm not similar to creatine. I'm not pitching it as a game changer and certainly not as like getting equal emphasis in our conversation compared with training. Yep. Yep. Biggest lever to pull for sure is going to be training for sure. And lastly about medicine. So individuals with sarcopenia tend to have multiple medical problems. And so optimizing this chronic disease management from a medical standpoint would be useful like obesity. For example, we'll talk a little bit more about this in about 180 seconds. If somebody has testosterone deficiency, that would be a good time to potentially investigate that it does. If you have an individual with testosterone deficiency, and then they are placed on testosterone replacement therapy, TRT, they do see an increase in muscle mass, but improvements in gait speed, or like physical battery tests don't necessarily go up if a person is not actually exercising just again showing that mechanotransduction is the ruler of all these things you have to exercise. Yep, 100%. And other things if somebody's got an autoimmune disease, inflammatory condition, other sort of primary disease, that should be optimized as well. And then also something that may kind of be last on your list of things to do. It's last on our outline here is a sort of medical medication reconciliation. So beta blockers, for example, or glucocorticoids or other medications that either promote anabolic resistance or otherwise lead to decreased exercise or reduced exercise intensity or all of these things. That's tough. I would not recommend just coming off these things just because you're listening to this podcast. Don't go pour grandma's medications down the toilet. That's not what we're saying. But these are things to have conversations about the risks and benefits, especially because sarcopenia and decreased sort of function can compromise somebody's ability to live independently. Yeah, these are things that are, I think, underrated in terms of their importance to talk about. And unfortunately, in the same way that not all clinicians are going to be as facile and comfortable with the types of conversations that I described earlier with patients around this, many clinicians get out of date or lazy with their use of medicines in this space. So like routine use of beta blockers for blood pressure management, and there are other situations where beta blockers have historically been used that now we're learning are probably not ideal uses. So in certain forms of heart failure, we thought maybe it would help. And now we're using less of it in, again, certain types of heart failure or in certain other contexts where there are some types of beta blockers that are better than others. And then certainly with glucocorticoids or the medicines like prednisone, especially when they're prescribed all the time for like bouts of back pain and things like that, not ideal. Of course, that's usually for a relatively short, short course, but repeated short courses over time can be problematic if they're potentially avoidable. And then if certainly if somebody's on long term prednisone, that's more often like for a reason. But if it's being done by a wise clinician, they should also have in the back of their mind, hey, what methods can I use to try to get this person on the lowest dose possible, or on a steroid sparing agent to get them off of the glucocorticoid or the prednisone altogether, because that is almost always preferable to somebody being on long term prednisone therapy as an example.

=== FILE: Should Old People Take Steroids？ [3o4uwSEsvbE].txt ===

Okay. Should the elderly be prescribed anabolic steroids? So there are actually some situations where anabolic steroids have been researched for medical use. This includes severe burns because burn patients, whole body burns and things like that is a major hyper-cathabolic state. So there's some research in that world. And other syndromes where there is severe muscle and fat wasting, syndrome called Kekcia. So anabolic steroids have also been researched in like HIV-AIDS related Kekcia where these patients are just literally skin and bones. They've wasted away. So this is being looked at. I think part of the reason outside of the obvious social stigma around this stuff that they're not kind of used more liberally in practice is actually when you look at the available research that we have on this stuff in elderly patients, the outcomes are actually not like mind-blowingly good. And so I think that until such point as that evidence would emerge where we put an elderly individual presumably sarcopenic individual, not just somebody who's elderly for the sake of it, on anabolic if we see fantastic results in terms of quality of life or other kind of positive outcome measures, then I wouldn't expect medical societies or organizations to recommend this stuff until we have a solid evidence based to stand on. Think a big part of it is that that doesn't actually exist yet. And I'm actually open to the possibility that they may not deliver the benefits that we all assume they would. Rather, I think that we should pull the levers that we know work right now, getting physical activity up and getting the nutritional intake to where it should be. And I definitely think it's reasonable for us to research this stuff. But going back to the root of thEQuestion should the elderly be prescribed anabolic steroids? At this time, no, that's not wouldn't be my recommendation because we don't have clear evidence of consistent benefit whereas there is some potential for harm, particularly in elderly who, again, remember the number one cause of death in the US in the world that I talked about on day one yesterday is cardiovascular disease. And there are cardiovascular risks associated with these medications. If you were to give them to patients, so we're giving them medications with some known risk from a cardiovascular standpoint and potentially other organ systems that can be evolved. They're involved. There can be side effects on the liver depending on the type of antibiotics deride and the route of administration as well as on the kidneys. And a few other kind of potential side effects and complications for unclear benefit. So we need research to demonstrate clear benefit before we're going to comfortably prescribe it and that really stands. In my opinion for any medical intervention that we're going to do, I would prefer to have good evidence of benefit before I do it. And that has been particularly relevant recently with COVID when it comes to decidinGHow we're going to treat these patients. Yeah, I won't get good evidence before I decide to give somebody particularly medication that has known risks and unknown benefits. Yeah, I feel similarly mainly with respect to the, obviously the respect of it analysis, but with the existing data on this. If there was robust data showing like, yeah, when you give elderly patients testosterone, they grow huge muscles and their quality of life improves and all this other stuff improves, then I think it would already be widely adopted. Right now you have, you know, a relatively few amount of studies, particularly looking at muscle wasting and muscle in fact combined wastey diseases. So like Austin said, HIV burn patients, other diseases that causes cakexia like liver disease, et cetera. And then a few like fringe papers that like randomly pop up like using testosterone and women who have chest pain like angina. Pretty easy. Yeah, I remember that one. Yes, we were. Or now the most recent paper that came out of this is testosterone use and depression. And there's other papers obviously out there on testosterone, but much fewer on other antibiotic agents, right? So people are talking about like, oxygen, gelone or anolvar, decandurable, whatever. This is the same case that Psalms the selective androgen receptor modulators, these are the new drugs that are on the street, well they're on the street right now, but they're being researched. These are effectively, they're supposed to be like steroid analogs, like work like steroids, but have none of the side effects because they're selective for the receptors that they actually bind to. But unfortunately during the phase two clinical trials when they're doing using them on these older people, they're not getting the benefits that are purported like bigger muscles, stronger muscles, being able to be more active or anything like that. And so when you have this data that like overall suggests not a reliable benefit, and then there are known risk factors, it makes sense that the medical community is kind of like, even during our board's prep, I remember on like step one, there was a question about using anabolic steroid, like a patient who was using anabolic steroids, and then like one of the lines was, data that, at present, does not show or shows that anabolic steroids don't provide a performance benefit in sport, please counsel the patient accordingly. And I was like, uh, Vinny down the street at gold, might have been a video. So as far as how this works in the future, I think if better data comes out, that of a useful, in order to get that better data, we need to do more studies. And I think that in general medicine is fairly liberally leaning, liberal leaning, and so as new data emerges, I don't know that any stigma is going to prevent us from like adopting the latest practices provided ample evidence exists. There was a big series of studies that came out, uh, think maybe last year or two years ago called the testosterone trials. It was a big set of multiple studies on testosterone for various outcomes. So if you're interested in this topic, I'll just look up, look, that was up, and get some results. Yep.

=== FILE: Should Older Individuals Gain Weight to Gain Muscle？ [3quGzNFuDWg].txt ===

Question number one, if an elderly individual who is at a healthy weight, but under muscle starts resistance trening, should they be eating a caloric surplus to build muscle, given that they are eating enough protein? Well, okay, this is a good question. In general, I don't know that I recommend anybody for weight gain, unless they want to. So if their personal preference is, I'd like to gain weight for whatever reason. Either strength is the most important thing to them, and they have a, they have their room to grow. That's fine. They want to gain more muscle mass, just for their own record. That's fine, but just for like reducing the potential of bad health outcomes from happening, you can do that without gaining a substantial amount of body weight. And a person new to resistance treninGHas a high likelihood of building a lot of lean body mass without increasing their body weight. We see that all the time in individuals with obesity, they simultaneously reduce their waste or comfort and body fat while increasing their lean body mass. And in particular, I don't know that gaining a bunch of weight at an elderly age is likely to be a great idea. Just because if they're already in a healthy, healthy weight as is kind of a qualifier in thEQuestion, IMean, I see a lot of elderly folks who are extremely underweight, you know, it's not often that I see individuals who are like have made it into their 80s with morbid obesity. Oftentimes they don't, they get kind of selected out a little bit earlier than that for through various mechanisms, things that we've talked about this weekend, the medical conditions that can arise. So oftentimes the people who make it that far tend to be pretty thin and frail on the other end of this spectrum in those situations, then getting adequate nutrition and putting them into a calorie surplus if we can, does become a priority. But if somebody is already at a healthy weight, then I would just lean on getting them to tren rather than worrying about getting them in a calorie surplus. What you know, the internet's going to say, what? Don't you know that in elderly population, the class 1, OBSV has the lowest all-cosm mortality rates? How do you explain that? ThEQuestion is saying that they're at a healthy weight, so then I would ask how we're defininGHealthy weight here. Sure. Well, what I'm getting is that it's that explanation, basically ignores, again, a few things that Dr. Baracky said. So individuals who tend to carry a lot of excess adipose tissue tend to get filtered out when we get to that elderly population, so they tend to make it that far. And those who do, there's obviously there's a survivor bias there. And in addition, once you become elderly, having a low BMI, so like in normal or particularly underweight represents either chronic illness or increase in frailty. And so both of those things, portend bad outcomes. We wouldn't necessarily want somebody who's got a normal BMI, or it is slightly in the lower realms of the overweight BMI range to necessarily say, I got to get my BMI to over 30 because that's going to reduce my risk of premature mortality or reduce disease burden. Yep. All right. Sick. We took on the internet. There you go. Boom.

=== FILE: Should You Take Protein When You're Sick？ [IdxDlhaH0JU].txt ===

All right, question number two. If hospitalized, should I have somebody bring me whey protein? You know, this is a funny question. I'm not a silly question. I'm not like that. Yeah. So when I was an intern, I did try to routinely order people double protein when I was putting in their nutrition like Rex. So you have to put in orders for every patient you admit. And for diet, you know, you pick, oh, they NPO. So they can't eat anything. Or is it just liquids or whatever? I would routinely put in double protein. And every time I would get a page, like in the audition, I said, why? And I'm like, IMean, look, they're risk for sarcopenia. Oh, I feel like this is, and they're like, no, this is wrong. Yeah, IMean, if I was hospitalized, I would try to eat more dietary protein. And I'm not saying that just because I'm like protein or gains. This is the thing is the risk of like critical illness, myopathy, bed rest, and it's effect on your antibiotic resistance. All those sort of factors, in addition to not trening, would all put you up much higher risk for losing muscle tissue. And for most folks, especially those who don't have like a profound amount of extra muscle tissue to lose, having a concentrated source of dietary protein that is available to stimulate muscle protein synthesis. And there's also relatively low in calories, and it's easy to consume, seems like a good deal. So you don't, IMean, if you can't get it in the hospital, because they would give you insure or something or boost or something like that. There's effectively a protein shake that is low in protein. Well, with plenty of sugar in it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, IMean, look, it's got calories, and so people can consume that. And I'm not saying that it's bad, universally. I'm just saying that if you're going to have the insure, like I want the extra 20 grams of protein, too, so get you some way. Yeah, IMean, I think that's reasonable. On the other hand, the counter argument that IMake frequently, when we're talking about in hospital diets, because I am involved in making these decisions frequently, is that it's unlikely to make a big difference on people's long-term outcomes when most hospital stays or not going to be particularly long. If you're in an unfortunate situation where you're in the hospital for like three months, then sure, I can make an argument that it's going to make a big difference there. But I'll frequently, majority of the patients that I admit to the hospital are going to be in the hospital for three days or less. Most of them, and fewer, they're longer than that. And then the few of us are going to be there for like weeks to months on end. So somebody who's going to be in the hospital for a day or two days or three days, we're going to say, oh, they have heart disease. So we're going to put them on a heart healthy diet for a day in the hospital. And like, it doesn't really do anything. So I tend to not be super picky about that, because ultimately what it ends up is doing is just restricting the patients' choices when they're in the hospital. And they're already miserable enough. And there's no sense in my mind torturing them for something to give them like two meals that fit this criteria that really. So the bigger deal would be if we could get them to consume sufficient dietary protein in the weeks, months, and years leading up to the hospitalization. So they're super jacked when they go to the hospital. And they're at lower risk of in-hospital mortality. And arguably, they don't need to potentially go into the hospital all if the condition could have been averted. So I think that's far more important than worrying about an in-hospital diet because most hospital stays are relatively short. But to the extent they're going to be there for a while, as long as you don't have any reasons not to feed somebody's gut, then sure you can give them some protein. So they're going to be there for a while. If you were going to be in the hospital for seven days, you take it some way. Maybe I'm not going to be going out of my way to get it now. But you know, you know the range of ring these some way. Yeah, probably that strawberry junk junk keeps it in the back of your head. Yeah, I know.

=== FILE: The 2026 Food Pyramid： Two Doctors Review of the New Dietary Guidelines [KvzQK6xte1Y].txt ===

 The 1992 food pyramid is probably the most recognizable image in the history of public health in America. It's the poster we all remember from our elementary school cafeterias, and it continues to define how we talk about nutrition today. Interestingly, many people treat the pyramid as the current standard, even though it was actually replaced by my plate back in 2011. While my plate tried to simplify things, the original pyramid remains the shorthand for where we believe our metabolic health went off the rails. The standard story is that the pyramid's low-fat advice is what made the country sick, but the data shows a much more complicated reality. The low-fat marketing of the 90s essentially gave the food industry a green light to flood our environment with hyperpalatable, ultra-processed calories. Since 1977, the average American didn't just change the type of fuel they were using, they added nearly 500 calories to their daily total. We ended up in a health crisis because we followed an engineered environment to a massive calorie surplus. Now, in January 2026, the map has officially been redrawn again. The federal government's 2026 food pyramid, or reset, is a radical departure from everything that came before it. For the first time, we're seeing a protein floor, specifically aimed at increasing dietary protein, and there's an explicit war on ultra-processed foods. At the same time, we're witnessing a populist rebellion that has effectively flipped the pyramid upside down, crowning red meat and butter as health foods, while dismissing decades of cardiovascular research. Depending on who you follow, this reset is either a biological miracle or a cardiovascular ticking time bomb. Now, Barbara Medicine, we're not interested in the political theater of the reset, we just care about the biology of the people who are going to follow it. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're going behind the curtain of the 2026 guidelines. We're tracking the lobbyist influence, we're dissecting the actual evidence behind these new recommendations, and we're asking if this shift represents a return to real- on American health. And to help me unpack all of this, we have the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now, Austin, when you look at this new inverted pyramid with steak at the top and bread at the point, what is the first thing that comes to mind? Does something different stand out, or does it just take you back to that poster we all had on our elementary school cafeteria walls in the 90s? Yeah, a few things. I mean, I remember growing up seeing that image on the side of whether cereal boxes or milk cartons or things like that. More recently, I believe it was about maybe two years ago or so, there was a South Park episode that actually featured the lab hot take of like, let's take the pyramid and flip it upside down. So this has been foretold as they tend to be quite visionary on that show. Looking at this graphic, I'm honestly not terribly excited about it. I think that much like prior guidelines that people didn't do a great job of following, I'm not sure that they're much more likely to follow these. There's certainly been a lot of hot takes and discourse around this, these new guidelines at the moment that I know we're going to be getting into today. But those are just some of my initial takes. I don't think it's very likely to have dramatic impacts on people's behavior, which is the main thing that we care about, of course. Yeah. Yeah. So I think to understand like how we got here and like its subsequent effects on dietary behaviors and practices, we need to go back. We can't understand why this 2026 reset is happening, unless we understand why the 1992 food pyramid, its original inception was doomed from the very first draft. And so we've got to go back to 1980, which is when we published our first dietary guidelines in the room where it happened. Now, to set the stage here, Senator George McGowan, he had this committee on nutrition and human needs. It was originally formed to end hunger in America, but that committee pivoted towards the rising epidemic of heart disease. Now, to understand why that happened, Eisenhower had a heart attack in office in 1955, Ansel Keys researcher just released his seven countries study that connected saturated fat intake to heart disease in the 1970s. And so all of this is leading to some pressure about, oh my gosh, we got this epidemic of heart disease, we got to do something about it. And so that committee released a set of dietary goals for the United States in 1977. So predating the first dietary guidelines that were ever widely published. And in those dietary goals, they say to reduce processed sugars by half, so about 10% of the dietary intake, reduce fat intake to 30% from its current state at 40%, particularly animal fat, reduce that, reduce saturated fat to less than 10% of daily calories, increase polyunsaturated and monoinsaturated fats, reduce dietary cholesterol intake, reduce sodium intake and increase fruits and vegetables. That's 1977. Yeah. And that's, you know, at a time when, if you graph out the incidents of cardiovascular disease and in particular cardiovascular disease death, rates were extremely high in the middle of the kind of from 1900 to the year 2000, like in the early to mid part of that century, the like per capita risk of cardiovascular mortality was extremely high. And so now, even though you still hear us say things like cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the US, leading cause of death worldwide, the overall number of events is still quite high. That is mostly at this point driven by the fact that the population is so much higher. But if you correct that per capita, like by divide, adjust for the growth of the population, we have made huge progress on the risk of cardiovascular death, like the sudden death from a heart attack is far less common now compared to where it was, say in like 1960s. Now people are living with more chronic cardiovascular conditions, things like heart failure and things like that. But it's interesting to see these dietary suggestions. I mean, I think you could quibble about some of them, but overall, it's like, yeah, this would be a net improvement on what it sounds like the diet was before that, even going back to the 70s. Yeah. Yeah. So that's 1977. And ultimately that led to the development of the 1980 guidelines. Now this was a pamphlet. It wasn't, there was no food pyramid at this time. It wasn't like a 400 plus page scientific consensus on, you know, nutrition that we currently get with each iteration of the current guidelines, but just a little pamphlet. Although if you want to look at it, I've linked it in the show notes. It looks pretty good. Very vintage. Now the 1977 sort of guidelines that led to the 1980 pamphlet that was released had been watered down. So effectively, the committee said decrease the consumption of meat, but the cattle industry was pretty chuffed about that. And so the final wording in the 1980 guidelines said, choose meats, poultry, and fish, which will reduce saturated fat intake. So it moved from eat less meat to eat lean meat. The original goal of the 1977 dietary goals was to reduce sugar consumption by 40%, but after heavy lobbying from the sugar industry, the 1980 guidelines were softened to the vague, avoid too much sugar. So there are two recurring themes here we're going to see throughout the different iterations of the dietary guidelines, including the current ones. Number one is industry influence. That's problem number one and two, vagueness leading to unintended consequences. So we fast forward to 1992. The food pyramid is born. This is the first time that graphic appeared in public. And the reason why they pivoted to this graphic is because, again, we had previously had a pamphlet. Nobody understood them. And so the thought was, well, if we just have a graphic, people will understand that and by and large eat that way. So the USDA hired a nutrition expert named Luis Light to lead the team to develop this graphic. Now the original food guide and subsequent pyramid looked very different. Light's recommendation was to make the base of the pyramid vegetables and fruits. And grains were a small sliver, like two to four servings. And they also had to be whole grains. Now when the draft went up the chain, the grain lobby represented by the big cereal and flower companies went to work. They argued that if people only ate two servings of grains, the agricultural economy would collapse. And so the USDA overrode the scientists. They flipped the pyramid, put grains at the bottom and increased the recommendation to a staggering six to 11 servings a day. Oh, and by the way, they didn't differentiate between whole grains and refined grains. It was just whatever type of grain, six to 11 servings of them per day. Yeah, I mean, I think that it's some interesting backstory of what may have happened behind the scenes there, although, you know, there is some probable distinction between to get the image and what it conveyed and to the extent that somebody even used that to kind of, you know, inspire their dietary habits or choices, which again, as will make the case, most people don't really gravitate towards the use of those tools when making these decisions. You know, if somebody's habitual diet contained, say, six servings of whole grains a day as the proper defined by a serving, that is most likely to be completely fine for a large fraction of the population and may even be health promoting or beneficial. But if it is kind of, you know, mixed in with or not clearly delineated between refined grains, which to be clear, even those guidelines were not recommending like, hey, you should consume up to 11 servings per day, including of refined grains, things like that. Then I think you'd certainly run into more problems, but that's also not what they were explicitly advising. And so you do hear some more of the kind of conspiratorial minded, which understanding that there is some undercurrent here of like nefarious influence and things like that here and there. But the idea that that as a result, the government put forth this clear message of everyone ought to be consuming tons of grains, in a respective of whole grain versus not is not exactly what those things held even even at the time. Yeah, that wasn't certainly wasn't the advice, although yeah, you could make an argument, although I don't know a strong one that people, if they just looked at the graphic, maybe that's what they took away, or if they just heard eat six to 11 servings of grains a day without the, you know, complex caveat, perhaps that might have led it led to, you know, this dietary pattern. But to me, the real like nefarious undercurrent here is what these guidelines, these 1992 food pyramid and subsequent dietary guidelines sort of incentivized. So while the USDA was telling us what to buy, two other giants were figuring out how to make it so we could never stop eating. Now in our one of our previous podcasts on big food, the American pantry was bought by big tobacco in the 1980s. And they didn't just bring money, they brought the same scientists who spent decades optimizing nicotine delivery and rate of absorption, they applied that to our food supply. Now we've evolved as a species to seek calories in order to survive. These companies turned that survival instinct into profit margins and expanding waste lines for us. So over the last 50 or so years, we didn't get hungrier or subsequently lose willpower as a species, but we did start eating about 500 more calories on average. And this is like a passive over consumption. And because of these engineered foods, they don't give us the same stop signals as less processed options. And so the thought here is that these ultra processed foods came to prominence due to market pressures. The food pyramid had this base of grains and to keep them shelf stable and cost efficient, industry leaned into refined flowers and starches and away from whole grains. And also we had this advice to reduce fat that was everywhere. So the food industry capitalized and made more of their foods low fat or fat free to get the healthy label and the fat free or low fat label, but to maintain taste and texture, mouthfeel, etc. They added sugar, sodium and other additives, which ultimately reduced satiety or feeling a fullness and added some calories. Now ultra processed foods make up about 70% of the US food supply. And yeah, between 1977 and the early 2000s, the average American didn't just get hungrier. We got hacked. We're eating way more calories. So to me, it's easy to look back at 1992 in the food pyramid and blame the lobbyists, but the scientific community wasn't silent at the time. When the USDA was printing millions of these posters, researchers at Harvard led by Walter Willett, he's the same guy who came up with the Eat Lancet diet, which is pretty good, sounding the alarm. They pointed out that there was a fundamental flaw in the pyramid's design. The pyramid created all carbohydrates as equal and biologically speaking, it didn't distinguish between a Cheerio and a steel cut out. Now if you read the fine print, if you read the scientific consensus, it says, oh no, no, we want complex carbohydrates, but that's not what the graphic really showed. So Austin, as we look at this new food pyramid called the 2026 reset with its protein floors and the inversion of the old food pyramid, I'm starting to hear some very similar sounding alarms from the scientific community. Do you think we're finally getting it right? Or are we watching history repeat itself once again by failing to heed the warnings of experts? That's an interesting question. I don't think that we are, with this revision, getting closer to truth. I think it is a spectacle. In particular, if you look at the fact that these heavily criticized 1992 food pyramid is now getting inverted. There's something intrinsically symbolic and provocative about that. It's about the spectacle and the show of you've been lied to and we're flipping everything on its head and things like that. Of course, as we and others have pointed out many times, the food pyramid hasn't been used for well over a decade, actually quite a bit longer. There was this intermediate evolution that happened, the my plate system that did not actually rely on the food pyramid, nor did it continue to reflect that broad base of indiscriminate grain maybe implications graphically, even though again the text did not advise people consume that much of processed or non-complex carbohydrate sources and things like that. So I do think that there's almost more of an emphasis on making this a spectacle and it's almost performative in a sense without being a thing that is likely to either radically transform behavior or be much more accurate than existing guidelines that we've had. If anything, I've seen a fair amount of criticism that these actually make certain things more ambiguous, more nebulous, controversial, especially from the scientific perspective, but at the same time that's not too surprising once you get a sense of how these guidelines actually get drafted. There is the scientific committee of experts who are extremely familiar with the literature and they put an enormous amount of time and effort into formulating their scientific consensus, but from there for that consensus to get translated into the actual guidelines and then subsequently into policy, there's an additional layer of filtering that happens and that happens through HHS as well as the USDA. And that's what's kind of tricky here is when you think about the USDA Department of Agriculture, it's like, well, are they charged fundamentally with a primary interest in promoting the health of Americans or are they charged with a mandate relating to agriculture in the United States? And so there's almost like an intrinsic conflict of interest there that makes things complicated and a little bit problematic that they are significantly involved in this process at all. It's not to say that just the scientists would do a phenomenal job of being able to formulate guidelines because even though scientists are great at scienceing and it coming up with committee statements, they are not great oftentimes at public communication. And so I shudder to think about what the product might look like if it was just left up to the scientists to come up with a very compelling kind of public message on this. I think you do need some level of additional skill, filter, interpretation there. But the actual process that this goes through, that's why you see, for example, some of that softening of language that you described where the scientific committee in consensus might explicitly advise certain things, for example, say to reducing red meat intake or something like that. Whereas after it goes through that USDA filter and things like that, you might end up with that softening of language or making things a little bit more vague, a little bit more permissive. And then it leads to less clear, less concrete guidelines in the end that are often less compatible with the current scientific consensus as established by the original committee. So that's kind of what I see this evolution as. It's almost more performative and for show than it is something that is like more closely approximating truth that is likely to materially advance the health of our population. Yeah, it does kind of seem like the USDA is in a conflicted spot, to say the least. It's kind of like the same company that's charged with reducing lung cancer rates in America is also selling you cigarettes and you're like, I don't understand what your primary interest is. What's your major incentive? So yeah, some maybe predictable outcomes in a way as far as like softening language, in addition to just science communicators getting ahold of this and saying, look, we can't talk about the polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratio in technical terms, but maybe we can just say reduce saturated fat, for example, that previously was in the guidelines. But the way I want to come at the 2026 food pyramid that the updated guidelines is through this cinematic reference, the Clint Eastwood at the helm, we're going to talk about the good, the bad, and the ugly, and we're going to start off with the good. And for me, there are two major victories, increased protein and the acknowledgement that ultra process foods are a problem. So let's start out with protein. For years, the RDA for protein was set at 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. This is a number designed simply to prevent nitrogen deficiency in a otherwise inactive person. So this 2026 reset, the new food pyramid finally established what they're calling a protein floor of 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day for adults. Don layman, Dr. layman was one of the advisors there and you know, he's one of the best there is in this space. So it seems like they're keeping up with the evidence. So on paper, yeah, raising the protein recommendation to 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day seems like a massive victory for supporting muscular health, particularly in adults who are lifting weights or exercise exercising and older, older adults who are at risk of sarcopenia. So you can think about like protein as a building block, you know, if you're building a skyscraper that is constantly under renovation, the old guidelines were like sending a brick, you know, one truck of bricks per week, just enough to keep the building from being condemned and falling down. But if you're actually living in that building or trying to renovate it through resistance training, you're going to need more bricks. You're going to need a constant convoy of delivery trucks to keep up with the pace of construction. So the new guidelines could theoretically increase the supply of bricks or building blocks, making the renovation process easier and more successful. However, there's a catch here, the recommendation as it sits probably doesn't make that much of a difference, not just because people don't read the guidelines or follow them, which we'll get to, but because it's not that much different than the current protein intake amongst most adults in the United States. Most adults eat way more protein than the RDA. In the U.S., the typical adult consumes about 1.07 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. Now, obviously, there is a variation there. Some people eat way less, some people eat way more. So between you and I, we're probably bringing up the average and other people are bringing down the average. So to me, it's kind of like a paper recommendation. It's like, well, look, it is higher, but like, I don't know how much it would actually change if people were just meeting the numbers. Perhaps the good that comes out of this is with this emphasis on eating more protein. Potentially, that extra protein could displace other foods that were ultra-processed foods or otherwise high calories that drove that 500-calorie surplus that we've talked about in the last episode and now this episode. That's all theoretical, but I guess we could count this as a win. What do you think about the new protein recommendations, specifically with respect to like health outcomes such as sarcopenia, frailty, and so on? Is this a good move or not? Yeah, I would push back a little bit on the idea on narrowing the scope to sarcopenia and frailty because that's not what these guidelines are for. These guidelines are general dietary guidelines for Americans and probably one area in my own thinking as far as nutritional guidelines has gone over the years is softening definitely what I would consider in terms of protein recommendations for the general public. I think that if a lot of people are hanging around 1.2, that's already probably more than enough for most folks. We know or at least feel relatively confident that higher levels than that among training populations or those who are very anabolically resistant may confer some additional benefit. I think as with most things, there tends to be pretty significantly diminishing returns to that. So pushing the whole population to try to hit 1.6 when we think that there are pretty substantially diminishing returns as you approach that level and certainly if you exceed it, I don't know that that's going to be making a huge difference in population health. Even when it comes to people with sarcopenia, their fundamental issue way more often tends to be some combination of disuse atrophy. In other words, insufficient physical activity. They're not training and maybe they have advanced medical conditions that are also contributing to it that could maybe be better managed, but maybe not. It's really hard to get big and strong and jacked when you have advanced Parkinson's disease or heart failure, COPD, cirrhosis, cancer, things like that. When it comes to management of sarcopenia and frailty, I am much, much, much more strongly in favor of getting people active and training compared with jacking up their protein intake. I think is much less likely to have a big, big impact on their health outcomes. So ultimately, I'm kind of a shrug in this. It's like in years past, my very barbell training oriented self would have been strongly in favor, but that's also limited to that context of somebody who wants to get the biggest outcomes out of their training. Yeah, you can probably benefit by pushing it up to that, say 1.6 in certain situations even higher. But when I'm saying, oh, this is for the entire country, whether you're training, not training, young, old, sarcopenia, not, I'd be fine with just like calling it 1.2 and saying most of the population on average is about there. And if somebody is clearly eating a nutritionally depleted diet or a nutrient deficient diet, then yeah, we want to get them up to that level. But calling 1.6 a floor for the population, I would actually not be in favor of that, I think. Yeah, yeah, I agree. All right, let me pose a would you rather to you. All right, so let's just say by sheer publicity and, you know, fanfare around the new inverted food pyramid, there's a 10% section of the population that now has increased their dietary protein intake, right? So that's scenario one, 10% of the population jacks up their protein to 1.6. Now to be clear, none, neither of us are saying like, look, if you go above that much, or at that level, and you don't lift like bad things are going to happen to you, it's just like, sure, you're probably not seeing benefits. All right, so that's scenario one. Or you take the same portion of the population 10%, it's currently not exercising. And instead, they start meeting the physical activity guidelines to include conditioning and lifting weights. Which do you predict would have a greater impact on health outcomes? Absolutely no question. The latter getting that portion of the population more active is going to have a way bigger impact than bumping up their protein intake. Yeah, yeah. So, you know, I'm trying to be charitable to these guidelines, so I don't want to be like, well, they're all bad, because it's not necessarily the case. In fact, they're not really that changed comparatively to some weird kind of nuances they decided to pick that are seemingly at odds with the current scientific consensus. But look, if increasing protein, or the advertisement that that's in the guidelines convinces somebody to read the guidelines, great. What I think they missed an opportunity to do is say, and by the way, this would be maximally leveraged if you lifted some weights and you should do that. Sure. Okay. So if we're calling that a win, which, sure, if people chose to increase their protein intake, and you know, that led to increase exercise or displacement of other foods that are higher calorie, that's probably a win. But for most folks, maybe shoulder shrug emoji. Yeah. The second win here, which I actually think is maybe a bigger win is there, we've announced an official war on ultra process foods. So like for the first time, seemingly a federal document explicitly identifies highly processed foods as a primary driver of chronic disease, right alongside physical inactivity. That's right in the opening page of this. And they're not just blaming sugar, they're looking at the food matrix. They recommend avoiding ultra process foods. They also give a little decoder ring type thing. They're like, look, avoid foods if they've got some syrup in there, or it ends with OSE, like it's a glucose or something like that for added sugars. And to their credit, they don't mention nolva a single time in these guidelines. That's just this classification of food processing. Now, this is also in the scientific consensus. If you read that, it's a 400 something page document. They talk about how ultra process foods may lead to poor health through food matrix disruption. One of these things is like bioavailability. So industrial processing breaks down the physical structure of food. That's the matrix, which can make nutrients like starch and sugar absorb much faster by the body, potentially leading to not only higher glycemic responses, but also over consumption, basically cutting the break lines. There's no stop signal here over consumption, higher calorie intake. We talked about that on the last podcast. So got to give it some credit here. They also don't condemn functionally processed foods. So things like Greek yogurt, for example, or frozen fruits or vegetables, which are technically processed. But yeah, they don't call those out, which is nice. So I don't know. I view that as sort of a win. As far as implementation, I have my skepticism there. But yeah, what do you think about that? Because it's the first time I've seen that in dietary guidelines other than to say, avoid refined carbohydrates. But that's usually packed in the consensus and not like the actual document that people might read. Added sugars has been a well, appropriately demonized thing, I think, for a fair amount of time. The problem with the processing conversation, as you've alluded to here, and we've talked about before, is just one of definitions. And certainly, if it's going to come to policy, because policy requires definitions. And their to date remains a lack of a clear consensus definition on what is a processed or an ultra processed food that is neat and tidy and does not have some combination of both false positives and false negatives in terms of foods that we would all recognize as not being ideal for health that fail to meet certain criteria and others that clearly, as you mentioned, like Greek yogurt, for example, that are maybe technically processed in some ways that might otherwise meet certain criteria, even though it shouldn't be. So it's problematic. And I think that having clear definitions on this is going to be needed for anyone to be able to actually implement policy, especially knowing that or feeling confident that, hey, if this pisses off the wrong person, there's going to be legal challenges. And then you're just in a whole mess at that point. Yeah, yeah, I was trying to predict like, what if any sort of industry influence that this document and, you know, would maybe have, right, kind of similar to what happened in the 90s when that food pyramid came out. And, you know, they were like, look, we got to be low fat. And the base of the pyramid is grains. And so we need to make these affordable. So, you know, some unintended consequences there, what are the unintended consequences here? Can't think of anything that comes from these maybe the good side of the guidelines. So now it's time to get into the bad. There are some things in here that have a lot of scientists and clinicians, including us deeply concerned. And so, you know, we spent the last 20 something minutes talking about, you know, how these guidelines respect the biology of the gut and the muscle. But while fixing the metabolic engine, the guidelines might have decided to ignore the plumbing. So the guidelines still recommend keeping saturated fats under 10% of total calories. It's actually in the little pamphlet. It's also in the scientific consensus. And they acknowledge that 82% of Americans already exceed this and that there are no biological requirements for saturated fat intake. Yet the messaging here is complicated because they're saying, oh, yeah, you can use things like butter and beef tallow and eat more red meat. And to me, that is crazy. Austin, when you saw that the guidelines recommended butter and beef tallow as well as leaning into animal based proteins, what was your immediate reaction? Are we finally freeing the public from the failed lipid heart hypothesis? Or are we watching like a populist rebellion walk us right into the cardiovascular dead end? So I think that this is going to be an area where some people inevitably are going to just have strong opinions and disagree. I just fundamentally don't think that we have been dealing with a failed hypothesis of heart disease. Again, if you look at the actual statistics on risk of cardiovascular death, it has been steadily dropping. It's actually plateaued in the last few years. But over the course of the last 70 years, we have managed to put a huge dent into the risk of cardiovascular death through combinations of things. I will recognize combinations of less smoking, better blood pressure control, lipid lowering therapies, better treatments of acute heart attacks so they're less likely to kill people immediately and things like that. But when we survey the entire body of evidence on nutritional interventions, including highly tightly controlled metabolic ward studies and things like that, there is overall a relatively consistent directionality to it. And we have not been just like steadily marching in the opposite direction up until this point where they've like inverted things and set the core.  of course, more correct. So, you know, part of my problem with this is that it's just kind of incoherent in the sense that if you're advising people to crank up the butter and beef tallow yet also to keep their saturated fat intake less than 10% of calories, that's quite challenging, right? So, you know, meeting that guideline is going to necessarily require you to opt for generally quite lean sources of protein if you're going to be relying on animal-derived sources. If you end up going with fish or other things, then that's great, and that's arguably even better in a lot of ways. But it's just if you think that guidelines drive behavior, right? And so that's one of my challenges to folks in this space is you claimed that the old guidelines caused the obesity epidemic. Now we have these new guidelines that you are a big fan of, and I should expect we'll fix the obesity epidemic. Please set some explicit outcomes that you will be looking for. What will you be measuring? What time point do you expect this to happen by? And then we will assess at that time point. The caveat will be we need to make sure that the outcomes that we observe are not better explained by the use of GLP-1 agonist. That's right. Right? That's been my hot take to this point is if you think this is going to radically improve outcomes, for example, when it relates to heart disease risk, show me your predicted outcome and what you're looking for. Basically, pre-register your hypothesis. That's like a fundamentally scientific principle, right? That's how a lot of studies, when they get pre-registered, it says, here's our hypothesis. Here's what we think is going to happen. And you say in advance, if this happens, our hypothesis will be supported. If this happens, well, I'll have to reject my hypothesis. The problem is that people don't operate this way. People who are fans of beef tallow are going to be fans of beef tallow no matter what happens over the long term, no matter what I say, no matter what you say. That's just the tough thing here. But my issue, again, is just the incoherence of it and the fact that I don't think that most people are going to be able to, even if they wanted to use these guidelines, design a coherent diet that leans into butter, beef tallow, and high-intakes of red meat while also meeting the 10% saturated fat guideline. One of those things is going to fail. Yeah, I agree. And it is interesting. This is like the start of the disconnect between the scientific consensus, again, this 400-page review of the current evidence to date by a panel of experts, right? Many experts and millions of dollars spent to do that. They acknowledge that, look, the primary contributors of saturated fat in the current American diet are burgers and sandwiches, desserts and sweet snacks, you know, and other mixed dishes. And they also acknowledge that reducing butter, red meat, whether it's processed or unprocessed, and replacing them with plant-based sources, lowers cardiovascular disease risk. You should encourage beans, peas, lentils, et cetera, and mono-unsaturated and polyunsaturated fats. You know, they go through all this evidence, right? So they're saying on one hand, like, we should probably reduce beef tallow, butter intake, and red meat intake, just generally speaking, and shifting towards this other type of dietary pattern. The pyramid is like, nah, dog, I got this. Watch. Instead of, like, making a case for why using beef tallow and butter would be health-provoking, it seems like an add-on. Like, the rest of that whole section reads very similar to the consensus, which is like, yeah, we should probably avoid this stuff, limit saturated fat, choose these other options. And instead they're like, no, no, no, but you can also have beef tallow and butter. It's like, to your point, incoherent, because, like, how do you square that, you know? Yeah. I think that this is the result of what we'll call post-processing. After emerging from the scientific committee, the post-processing of this by the subsequent actors in this space who have, you know, certain biases and preferences, and motivated reasoning, and they like, you know, beef and steak, and, you know, aggression and manliness and things like that, all these kind of ideas that they want to bake into their guidelines as part of this whole kind of performative, you know, thing, for spectacle. That's my perspective on it. Yeah. Yeah, there's another interesting kind of wrinkle here. It's like this dairy hall pass. The committee found some moderate evidence that substituting red meat for dairy reduces heart disease risk. But it seemingly made its way to the food, new food pyramid in a very interesting way by pushing full-fat dairy, specifically whole milk and cheese. I got a big concern that this may increase calorie density unnecessarily without significantly improving satiety markers, so just how full people get, like, people just going to eat way more calories and also full-fat dairy can be more rewarding than lower fat options. So we both know that the literature on full-fat dairy is pretty messy. There's just a ton of confounding variables. So like socioeconomic status, who buys low-fat or fat-free dairy, who consumes whole-fat dairy and more. Still, though, when the food pyramid tells people to go full-fat for dairy, are they ignoring the fact that whole milk essentially provides a high-reward potential calorie bomb that might exacerbate the 500-calorie surplus that we're trying to fix? I think it's a maybe. It's something that's like I'm open to seeing kind of what happens. Again, I don't think people are going to use these guidelines for their behaviors. They're going to pick what they pick, regardless of what these things advise. But there may be some sort of cultural shift. I fully recognize, like, when we were growing up, that things were definitely leaning towards the skim milk direction more heavily. And so if there's a broader shift in the public conception, then yeah, that might impact behavior. You're right that there's going to be an energy overall calorie impact on that. The dairy whole topic is pretty interesting. We've talked before about how most forms of dairy, including full-fat forms, with the exception of butter, don't actually tend to be especially harmful in the context of, say, blood lipids and cardiovascular disease and things like that, whereas the churning process that turns it into butter has some impact on the chemical composition, and then that has some downstream impacts that are kind of net harmful on blood lipids and cardiovascular risk. So we'll have to see what happens on that front, but I agree. There's a non-significant difference in calorie density, which seems to be a pretty major problem that we're trying to deal with. The reward aspect, yeah, I mean, no doubt that drinking a glass of whole milk is pretty thick and rich and heavy and tasty when it goes into a milkshake, much more so than skim. You also wonder, to the extent that a person is sensitive to satiety signals, is there some kind of compensatory effect? We know that doesn't tend to happen with other forms of liquid calories. Does it happen a bit more with milk? Maybe. I have less strong opinions about this in general compared with some of the other areas of the guidelines, though. What do you think? Yeah, I think if they said, look, dairy's generally good, I'd be like, yeah, I agree. But the idea of pushing the full fat variety in particular is, yeah, I'm just like, why? My prediction is that you would either have a neutral effect on body weight management or a negative one, not likely a positive. That seems highly improbable to me. I think also recognizing that it's seemingly dairy, sans butter, seems to be pretty neutral or perhaps even beneficial on blood lipids. Yeah, I'm all for dairy. Let's do it. But I just think explicitly trying to recommend full fat versions, it just doesn't really make sense to me. I think it's almost like the pendulum swung too far the other way. It's like, look, we've been doing low fat, fat free, and a majority of the low fat, fat free products that were designed in the 90s ended up having added sugars and stuff like that. I think most people who are in this space would say, yeah, that's, that was bad. Generally not good. People overeat those things, but I don't think we have to apply that specifically to dairy. And, you know, we have hopefully functioning synapses and can discern between two different cases. And you would have hoped for better considering how many people are taking in this information. But I think nothing surprises me anymore. Yeah. And finally, I suspect you won't care about this, but we're going to see. Once again, the guidelines do not mention anything about dietary cholesterol. Now, I didn't expect them to mention the P to S ratio. That's just the ratio of polyunsaturated fat intake to saturated fat intake. But dietary cholesterol is still like a hot button. You know, people, again, if we're talking about a dietary pendulum before was like, minimize dietary cholesterol intake. And then it was like, nah, it doesn't matter. Cholesterol is more complicated, which is true. But like, there's, there's some nuance there. So we've covered this before. I believe a podcast episode called five nutrition controversies. Science tells us that the impact of saturated fat intake and dietary cholesterol doesn't happen in a vacuum. If your ratio is high, meaning that you're taking in a lot of polyunsaturated fatty acids and dietary fiber, your body tends to handle the dietary cholesterol pretty well. Blood lipoproteins like LDL don't seem to change much in response. But the typical Western diet or standard American diet, which to be clear is different than the guidelines. When people say the standard American diet, they're not referring to guidelines type type dietary patterns. It's just what people normally eat. Well, that P to S ratio is really low, mainly because we consume a lot of saturated fat relative to polyunsaturated fat. The current ratio is about 0.5. And we're really aiming for one or even two. But when that ratio is low, dietary cholesterol can increase blood lipids quite a bit. And now with the recommendation that beef, tallow and butter are fine, this could be an even bigger problem without any comment on dietary cholesterol. Austin, what do you think? Is the, you know, no mentioning of dietary cholesterol a big issue? Or are you just like, well, no one reads the guidelines anyway and no one would care. So it's fine. I do feel like I keep coming back to saying nobody's been reading these are acting upon them. And I do continue to stand by that. My issue with, you know, at the idea that maybe we should have mentioned something like that is also a broader concern about how guidelines should be communicated to the public. Should it be on one hand in terms of foods or should it on the other hand be in terms of nutrients? So when you tell a person or the general population who you should assume are not highly educated in this space that you should consume less saturated fat. That is completely meaningless to people out there. Right. So that is a nutrient based, you know, dietary recommendation that, you know, nerds, body, bodybuilding, bros, scientists, we understand. But the general population does not operate on a kind of nutrient based model of diet of nutrition. That is not where their understanding comes from. And so I don't think that public health dietary guidelines should be rooted in, you know, nutrient based communication to say things like sodium or saturated fat or cholesterol or p to s ratios or things like that. But rather, it should be fundamentally, I think food based. So eat more of these foods, eat less of these foods, ideally eliminate these foods. Part of the problem though is even if the scientific committee were to establish statements like that in their, you know, statement to say that these foods should be prioritized, these should be reduced, these should be eliminated. There's still again that subsequent layer of filtering that these go through before they're communicated to the public where various actors and industry influence and USDA and things like that have an opportunity to either soften some of that language. Or shift it actually to some of this nutrient based labeling or kind of recommendations that kind of give them more space to operate here. So it makes it so that, for example, food industry might then be able to reformulate their food product to meet something that is more nutrient based while still being a food that probably shouldn't be eating, right? Or they might give them kind of a little bit longer leash to operate in that space compared with if it was just like, hey, probably shouldn't eat this food. Yeah, that might have a more dramatic impact on their bottom line. Yeah. Yeah, I think if I had to, I have my druthers, the phrase that you love that I say, you know, there are like various pages in this in this food pyramid, and you know, it'll start out with like energy and then it goes to protein and then it goes to fruits and vegetables. So to your point, I agree. The majority of what's on that page should be eat this, eat more of this, eat less of that. And then it should ideally be accessible for most people, whether high income, low income and everything in between. I would prefer that at the top of that page or the very first bullet point to have some sort of like, maybe not science sounding, but like just discrete statement. So for example, in the fat section, we should limit saturated fatty acid intake. So, you know, eat more of these foods, eat less of these foods. And here's some like fringe cases, mainly to like make it clear. And ultimately you're trying to increase the skill set of the people who are consuming this information of navigating a label in our current environment, or at least just having some fund of knowledge stuff so where they could like assess something that's not completely clear to them like, well, just has a high amount of saturated fat. The food guidelines didn't say anything about saturated fats. So I'm kind of like up a creek. I mean, obviously that's a relatively rare case the person read the food pyramid and the guideline and then they're ultimately, you know, making this having this question. Yeah, that's just in my perfect world. That's how it would look like. Yeah, I think that's a reasonable take. The art of public health communication is complex. And there's a lot of those implicit decisions that need to be made. And it can be challenging if you don't have active knowledge or expertise in this space because you might be like, well, I understand this stuff really well. And here's how I would communicate it. And that might not land at all with the, you know, the person in front of you or with the broader public. Yeah, I'd be very curious to know how this was like workshopped like they had a focus group after focus group after focus group. And at the end the focus group is like, we get it beef tallow I'm taking a bath. Right. Yeah. All right, so we've talked about the good we've talked about the bad and now we got to talk about the ugly. We went into the weeds of lipidology talking about all sorts of stuff related to p to s ratio saturated fat, etc. But maybe there's a hidden cost to this saturated fat endorsement that goes beyond the cholesterol panel. When the cultural narrative shifts so aggressively towards red meat and animal fats, it could create a retreat from plant based foods. Now we know that meat has exactly zero grams of dietary fiber. We also know that only 6% of Americans currently meet the recommended intake for dietary fiber by prioritizing meat for protein. The guidelines could be contributing to a massive fiber intake delta. And this may be like a sort of substitution trap in 1992, the original food pyramid, we substituted fat for refined grains in the new guidelines. We seem to be encouraging people to ignore great sources of fiber that were prominent in the previous guidelines like beans, peas, lentils, etc. And instead choose more calorie dense zero fiber animal proteins. Austin, are we watching the government repeat the exact same mistake of 1992 where they focus so hard on one variable protein that they inadvertently create a whole new public health crisis in the form of a 25 gram per day fiber gap. I don't know that they're going to be creating a new public health crisis as a result of fiber, insufficient fiber intake because most people are already consuming insufficient amounts of this fiber in their diet. There would be certainly a strong case to be made for potential health benefits by significantly increasing that intake from a variety of plant based food sources. I would say that that reflects probably the most substantial change in like my own habitual dietary pattern in recent years, yours as well to some extent, you know, more strongly leaning into a lot more plant based sources of all sorts of, you know, nutrients including protein and fiber and things like that, just based on our understanding of the evidence and kind of where it's been and these are not actually based on new findings either but just kind of becoming more familiar with this whole body of evidence. So, I don't know that these guidelines represent a clear shift away from high fiber foods, more so like insufficient prioritization of those that would represent good sources of dietary fiber, because they're not recommending against the consumption, for example, of legumes or lentils. But if you look, it's like it might be implied that they're not, you know, placed as high on the, you know, this inverted pyramid now, with the base being at the top, oddly. And so, you know, this is in the face of pretty abundant available evidence that we have in terms of food substitutions that substituting, you know, super fatty cuts of meat for some of these plant derived food sources has a host of health benefits on people. And they in fact do not become acutely protein deficient or chronically protein deficient by making such a substitution. A lot of things tend to improve. So, again, fundamentally people aren't reading or listening or paying attention to these, to the guidelines to make their decisions. If they were, I still don't know that this is going to be like, you know, open up this new health crisis as a result of poor fiber intake, because most people aren't consuming enough anyway. So, would I prefer, and I think you would as well, that the shift and the nudge and the encouragement have gone in the other direction of, you know, more people would stand to benefit from the inclusion of these foods on a regular basis in their diets, recognizing that like legumes are honestly, you know, super culturally prominent in some parts of the world and not terribly so in the U.S. And we would actually stand to benefit by, you know, increasing their prevalence in our habitual diets for a lot of reasons. Yeah, I think we would both prefer that for a lot of potential health benefits. That's not the way that they went. I, again, my pre registered hypothesis here is that that that choice is unlikely to, you know, make a hugely deleterious impact. Just as I would predict that if they had emphasized it more, I'm still not sure it would have had a hugely beneficial impact either. Yeah, you imagine though, so they bumped the protein intake up, right? And let's say they made this pyramid and with that steak and that cheese nugget in the chicken, it's just a big bean instead. They're like, look, we want you to eat more protein, primarily by increasing your legume intake. Like, eat more edamame. Yeah. So, you know, you're taking a subgroup of vegetables and you're combining to a subgroup for protein foods and like ultimately the increase in fiber would be generally good. Did you ever watch the Netflix series, Travelers? The Travelers. All right, so, you know, no spoilers here on the Barbel Medicine Podcast. We don't do any spoiling. But basically, these people from the future come back and they try to prevent the end of the world, right? And they're like, yeah, the standard story and something I would definitely watch. You would like this series. Interestingly, they're all vegans in the future and they come back and the idea, they look around, there's one saying they're looking around, everyone's eating meat and they're like, can't be over. Yeah, but I think that kind of touches on just most people who go down this health, fitness, wellness sort of rabbit hole, particularly with formal education and review of the evidence. You tend to shift towards having more plant-based food in your diet. It doesn't mean you necessarily switch to a vegetarian or vegan, but you include more because you just, it's overwhelming. You just can't ignore it. Like even with the most, I'm good at rationalizing. I am excellent at it. But I cannot rationalize away all of that evidence. And so, yeah, that would have been interesting if the food pyramid is like, yeah, we flipped it upside down. Now it looks like a piece of pizza. But the top corner, this is a huge bean. That would have been interesting. So also, this ignores anything about planetary health, which we are not experts in, but to the extent that this changes that at all, some concerns there. All right, so we're still in the ugly section here. There's some non-nutritive sweetener hate here, which why? Like, I think there are issues with the evidence on non-nutritive sweeteners, mainly because when you look at it by and large, they do not discriminate between where those non-nutritive sweeteners are coming from. Meaning like, there are many ultra-processed foods that, again, low, not very filling, high in calories, contain a bunch of stuff that you probably don't want. You're going, oh yeah, by the way, you're going to eat too much of it. That have non-nutritive sweeteners in their artificial sweeteners or naturally occurring sweeteners that still don't have any calories. And so, if you compare somebody who's eating a lot of those to somebody who's eating none of those, you're like, see, non-nutritive sweeteners, terrible for you. Instead, if you just restrict your analysis to people that are eating foods with added sugars or consuming drinks, sugar-sweetened beverages being the most prominent, they're replacing those with non-nutritive sweetened beverages. There's an improvement. And so, it just seemed weird. Like, again, this is a pretty short document. Why even waste the text on this? There's so many other things. Like, it just seemed like a weird kind of line in the sand to draw and not accurate also. Yeah, I think anybody who's taking an honest look at the overall body of evidence about these in particular, but also about the state of public health in general, is going to have a hard time making a case that the use of non-nutritive sweeteners in general, or any one of them in particular, is like contributing to a large fraction of public morbidity or premature mortality or something like that. So, I agree. I wouldn't waste my time worrying about these. Yeah, in fact, I would have done the opposite. More Diet Cokes. Sure. Yeah, let's do it. Then this other weird thing that falls definitively in the ugly sort of category. There's this retreat on alcohol. It went from two drinks for men, one drink for women, which admittedly is not great because like, what is a drink? There was no like, this is a standard drink, but whatever, guidelines. And now it's to a vague consume less because apparently it's a social lubricant. While the less is better, that's certainly true. This shift towards vagueness is like a classic policy pivot. It's lip service that avoids holding the industry accountable while leaving the consumer without a concrete target, just less. Again, I would prefer it say like, generally speaking, alcohol is not health promoting as little as possible. Like that'd be fine. It probably, you know, anger some people that should probably contribute to the development of these guidelines. But it would also have the benefit of being accurate. Yeah, and also Dr Oz wouldn't be like the a meme right now. So I so bizarre. Yeah, it's honestly it's like, what is your job? What are you being asked to do? What are you charged with? You are not here to be the secretary of social lubrication. I'll say that, right? If you if you were, then that would be your primary charge of finding all the things that confer that supposed benefit almost independent of their potential risks. And then you can state your case and you can be part of a committee. And you're like, well, I'm here, you know, from the standpoint of social lubrication and here's a beneficial thing. And then you can debate with people from the other side who are just like, nah, but it also leads to increased risk of all sorts of downstream health consequences and problems. And then you can hash it out and see which, you know, has the greater net benefit or net harm, which I think is not a controversial thing for anybody taking an honest look at these. So this is just an example of that kind of, you know, going from the scientific committee level to the field post processing the filtering. How language can get weakened and massaged a little bit based on the stakeholders and who's involved in that decision making to make these guidelines ultimately a bit impotent by the end just to, you know, less. It's like, yeah, a lot of people get told that they should probably drink less. This is often not news to them in many of these situations. But that's not with the purpose of these guidelines and nor are the guidelines intended to help, you know, socialize the population. Yeah. Yeah. Look, if there's a department for social lubrication, I'm here for it. Well, I'm here for that and the space force like if I'm signing up for both. All right. So the other ugly part, and perhaps the most interesting to you, Dr. Baraki, is the uptake and the potential for that. So first off, what are these guidelines actually do? And most people think these guidelines are just a pamphlet for doctors offices or something like post up in the school cafeteria. But in reality, they are the budgeting blueprint for billions of dollars in annual federal spending. So we got that national school lunch program 30 million children. And so you've got the WIC program, you've got SNAP supplemental nutrition assistance program, military rations and VA hospitals. This could theoretically affect a lot of actual meals going in actual bodies every day to the extent this changes. So now like all of the French fries served in the school cafeteria are there, you know, from tallow like what? Or like you can't get diet soda anymore because non-nutritive sweeteners generally bad. Like again, what? Some of this is hyperbole, but it's like the same amount of hyperbole from the other side of the coin. I shudder to think what these changes would actually have on the national school lunch program because if the current budget is X, right, this amount of money. And now we're, protein's got to go up specifically from animal sources, which are generally more expensive. Oh, by the way, no non-nutritive sweeteners can use any of those. And we're going to cook in beef tallow and butter. And it's like, so it's gotten way more expensive and like less health promoting. Doesn't seem like a win to me. I'm going to come back to my hot take from earlier. Tell me what outcome you're hoping to impact by making this change. Right. Here's the outcome that I'm looking for. Here's what I expect is going to happen. Here's how long I expect it's going to take for this to manifest wholesale. Right. I expect to see, you know, child, children's health improve in this way. I want to see children's blood pressure come down their BMIs or their, you know, their, their kind of growth charts that they'll fall back onto a healthy part of the growth chart. Childhood obesity will go down. These are all the things that I'm expecting will happen as a result of me switching to cooking fries and beef tallow and these other sorts of things in schools. If that happens by this date that will reinforce my hypothesis. I'll pat myself on the back and we'll carry on. Okay. If it does not happen, I'll be forced to reject my hypothesis and I will and we will alter the plan go in a different direction, test an alternative hypothesis or revert back to what we were doing before. They won't do that. Nope. You know, people will not pre-register their hypothesis like this. But that would be my how I would charge them with these kind of things if they're put into positions of power with the ability to impact these policies, then that's what I'm. That's what I'm that's what I'm looking for. That's what I want to hear. Yeah. And that's just like federally subsidized uptake. What about the actual uptake in the public? To me, this also raises just the price point of eating a guidelines type diet. You know, they talk about protein floor and moving away from shelf stable refined grains. They're making a massive assumption that the American consumer can afford to participate if you got time to prep, quote, real food and a budget for 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day of high quality animal protein. You know, you're in you're in the club, whereas most vulnerable populations are in low socioeconomic status brackets. These guidelines don't look like a map at all. They look like a wall. Now, the previous my plate guidelines, it was estimated that this would cost about $1200 a month for a family of four. That's the previous guidelines, right? Would definitively be cheaper than than these current guideline recommended food stuffs. The food budget, on the other hand, for the average middle income family in America is $518 a month for low income is $322 a month. This is a budgetary crisis protein. Animal sources in particular that the prices are forecasted to rise. Plant product prices have been relatively stable price wise. Also, ironically, legumes are incredibly cheap. Yeah. 100% like yeah, there's there's a lot of, you know, special specialized niche or unique. Scenarios that are not addressed here. They're just like fundamentally excluded or not recognized. And that's honestly where skilled. Dietitians are so valuable is by recognizing and having solutions and ways to improve the nutrition and health of these selected situations that people have maybe socioeconomic in nature, maybe medical in nature. And you're right that many of them are just not at all addressed by the guidelines. You're just kind of like out of the club. Unfortunately. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks for playing. And then finally, again, probably your favorite part of this entire podcast. No one follows the guidelines. Researchers often use this metric called a healthy eating index to measure adherence to dietary guidelines on a scale from 0 to 100. The average American score has hovered around 56 to 58 for decades. Interestingly, since about 1999, these healthy eating index scores have actually improved slightly reading slightly more whole fruit and fewer empty calories. Just a little bit. Yet obesity and metabolic disease have increased significantly since that timeframe data shows on average only about 10% of the population follows the guidelines with any consistency. This is based on like surveillance data from questionnaires. They're not like following people around and like, oh, you ate that. So this is self reported. By the way, it's probably like the physical activity guidelines is probably half that if that so maybe 5% for the other 90 or 95% the guidelines are just background noise in a food environment that's screaming at them to eat more and eat stuff that's not on the food pyramid anyway. So like, I don't know how many millions of dollars were spent to formulate this thing, but like the two potentially good things compared to the bad and the ugly. I'm like, feels  like that money could have been better allocated. Like an exercise promotion one. If RFK Junior and the MAHA movement was like, we got to exercise and we're gonna take all this money and do this, we might not agree with the implementation, but we'd find a lot less to be like, look, and you did this wrong too, I think. Yeah, I have little else to add at this point beyond, pay attention to the trends, the trajectories, the outcomes, adjust for the impact of biomedical innovation, science, GLP-1 agonist, things like that, and then be prepared to change your opinion if things do not go in the direction that you expect in the coming years to decades. That's a long enough time horizon that, by the time it becomes abundantly clear whether this is working or not, people will have forgotten this saga anyway. So I continue to lack a great deal of optimism on that front either, but I wish that there was more kind of intellectual honesty, logical consistency. There's other areas of these guidelines that, for example, criticize the use of observational data in one realm while heavily leaning into observational data in another realm. And so just the logical incoherence and inconsistency of it, I think is what is probably most frustrating because I know it's not gonna get better. Yeah, I think there's some argument here that these guidelines are kind of a form of policy lip service by providing this like what to eat framework. The government places the entire burden of health on individual choice. Like if you get sick, the government can say, well, if we told you to eat all the protein and avoid the ultra process foods, it's not our fault, your fault. This, of course, ignores the upstream policies that dictate what food is available. And the new food pyramid doesn't fix the farm bill, it just changes the educational advice, educational doing a lot of heavy lifting in that phrasing. So Austin, we're looking at a nearly $100 billion policy shift here. But when we look at the HEI scores, we see that the average American is basically failing a nutrition test every single day. Is the new food pyramid actually designed to change the American diet? Or is it just a political rebrand that allows the government to look busy while the underlying food environment, the subsidies and the ultra process food availability remain completely untouched? I don't actually know that the underlying food environment is gonna be completely untouched. It may be the case that some incentives change, realign, there might be some food reformulation, I hope not, but maybe even to moralize with some of this stuff of like, there's some of these restaurants, like you look at, I think it was Shake Shack or something, it said like now 100% beef tallow, but steak and shak. And stuff like that, there's steak and shak, sorry. Don't sue us, whoever, whoever, since you're the first to know. I'll cut that out. And so there's some impact on things. It's just hard to predict what the impact is gonna be when historical uptake of these guidelines has been relatively poor. You're right that, as we've talked about on our last podcast as well, the availability of calories and the way that those calories are packaged and delivered our surrounding food environment dictates way more of our routine habitual food related behaviors and our eating behaviors much, much, much more than any graphic, any guideline, any label that slapped onto the side of a cereal box or milk carton as we learned when we were kids too. And so this is ultimately a bit of a shrug for me. I think that there's just a lot of moving parts here between guidelines, how that impacts policy, the biomedical space and like our best attempts to fight back against these things. We're like trying to hold back the doors with our meager tools like, trizepatite and things like that. So ultimately where it all shakes out is gonna obviously remain to be seen. And then in another five years, who knows who's gonna be in power writing these guidelines, designing these guidelines and we might be, I don't know, back to square one again. Yeah, I'll be curious if there's any impact on these new guidelines, the new food pyramid on that big food trial that we talked about on the last podcast is like, do they enter this as evidence? Like, look, even the government admits this is problematic. That would be interesting and the subsequent downstream effects from that or even upstream, like as far as policies related to subsidized crops and such, but then there's more complicated food insecurity and so on and so forth. To me, I don't know, this is maybe a little more hokey so you can roll your eyes if you like or maybe you agree. I think if you put the American public in a room, you somehow got them all in a room and you said, look, what do we agree on with respect to nutrition? Everyone would agree, look, if you live here, you should have the opportunity to eat a health promoting dietary pattern. We want our food supply to generally be healthy. We don't want too many restrictions because this is the land of liberty. So we wanna be in charge, but we also want our basic food supply and water supply and everything else to be healthy, especially for children and vulnerable populations. I think everybody would be on board for that. There might be one straggler who's like, nah, make it unhealthy. It's like South Park, you know, riders for example. I think you're less likely to have people who say, no, make it unhealthy, but more so people who are like, no, I'm not willing to pay for it to be healthy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's hard to achieve that and that's where people would start to disagree. But if this food pyramid came out and was like, look, we want everybody to have the opportunity to eat a health promoting dietary pattern. Here's how we think that should be laid out and here's how we're gonna do about it. Yeah, people would disagree perhaps on the implementation, but there's this opportunity for like cohesion and unification like, look, we're all in this together, let's work together, but instead they chose violence. They're like, no, we're gonna lean into this like heavily meat focused thing. We're gonna make some strange choices about saturated fat intake and ignore, you know, mountains of research on fiber and legumes and such like that. Just seems like missed opportunity. And also like one mention about exercise, I don't know, it just could have done better. That to me is, we could have done better. Well, I mean, always could do better. These things are gonna continue to evolve with time. I think, you know, whether this ends up being a more consistent trend or whether this ends up being a blip kind of depends on, you know, how we vote in a couple of years. So TBD. TBD. All right, so what I did, we've talked about the, you know, new food pyramid and old food pyramids and everything else I thought, well, what if we were tasked with coming up with some, our own version of a dietary guideline, you know? Like, no, we don't have a multimillion dollar budget to recruit the best interdisciplinary team available to help us out. Then again, the new food pyramid seemed to ignore most of their experts anyway, so we could just be in the clear. Instead, yeah, we've taken the latest evidence surrounding dietary practices and boiled it down to the Barbo Medicine Dietary Guidelines for Americans, particularly adults. Our philosophy is pretty simple. Dietary behavior isn't a matter of willpower. It's an emergent process. It happens when your genetics and your subconscious appetite regulation collide with the food environment that's been engineered to be frictionless. So a few points here. First off, we're starting with energy and the environment. This needs to be a reality check. Again, this is an emergent process, like how much food we eat. And so we need to, to the extent it's possible, to modify our microenvironments, what happens at home, what happens at the office, so on and so forth. We would like to make those foods rich in either minimally processed foods or processed foods that don't have added sugar in them or are hyper-palatable, very tasty, and have a lot of calories. To the extent we can do that, that would be awesome. We would also wanna make sure that folks are eating in a way that's not distracted. So no screens at the table, and oh yeah, by the way, ideally eat at a table if you can. We think that should result in a better amount of energy intake or calorie intake by default, meaning that you don't have to weigh and measure every single thing, log everything into an app. But if you wanted a calorie target, there are opportunities and resources for that. We have our own calorie calculator you could use if you want. For protein, 1.2 grams of protein per kilogram of total body weight per day is fine. That can go up to 1.6 grams per kilogram body weight. That's fine for most. It could be higher if you train hard or if you prefer a higher protein intake. Nothing really bad is gonna happen. It's just gonna cost more money. And further, where we deviate from the new food pyramid is that the source doesn't really matter as much as the total number. We do agree you should prioritize lean protein, particularly unprocessed sources, so chicken breast, fish, legumes, Greek yogurt, tofu, et cetera. And yeah, we would lean heavily into more plant-based proteins, particularly because the fiber intake also relatively cheap comparatively. Next, moving on to fruit and vegetable. The current guidelines say, look, get at least three servings of vegetables and two servings of fruit per day. We wouldn't disagree with that. We would just say, try to have more if you can. And it doesn't matter if it's frozen or fresh, just have more and vary them as much as possible. We want folks to target at least 30 to 40 grams of fiber per day, which I think is another thing missing from the current guidelines. Just put it out there. It's a number, but some people would be interested in seeing that. Other thing to include here is that whole fruit is better than fruit juice. You could blend it if you want to because that preserves the fiber, but juicing removes the pulp. It can be frozen fruit as well if you wanna do this. For carbohydrates, two rules of thumb that Austin talked about in a recent fiber biology plan, both comparing the grams of carbohydrates to the grams of fiber. And those two ratios are five to one and 10 to one. If a food has a ratio of five to one, grams of carbohydrates to grams of fiber, that makes it an elite choice. We're talking about things like lentils, raspberries, non-starchy vegetables. If a carbohydrate source has 10 grams of carbohydrates to at least one gram of fiber, that is acceptable. Likely a processed food or a starchy carbohydrate, both of those can help you meet your health goals. For fat intake, we would recommend to reduce the fat intake from red meat and also butter, also beef tallow if we're being explicit here. If someone was looking for a numerical target, it would be less than 10% of total calories from saturated fat. You don't need to micromanage and specifically count milk or yogurt if you don't want to. In fact, I think most people shouldn't be micromanaging their saturated fat intake. We would also advise to limit dietary cholesterol if you're at high risk for heart disease and focus on increasing the intake of polyunsaturated and mono-unsaturated fats from like olive oil, fish, nuts, et cetera, ultimately to reduce the risk of heart disease. With respect to ultra-processed foods, we would agree with the current guidelines to limit them, particularly foods with added sugar. So you can look on the label for syrups, things that end in OSE and so on, particularly liquid foods that have added sugar, like sodas, for example. So soft drinks, also sweetened cereals, instant soups, frozen pizzas, check out the label. On the other hand, we disagree that people should inherently limit non-nutritive sweeteners, especially when we're talking about liquid foods. So replacing sugar-sweetened beverages like sodas with the diet versions can be useful, but ultimately, if we're gonna keep coming back to the same thing, your diet probably shouldn't be that sweet overall. Moving on to alcohol and sodium, I think the recommendation of limiting alcohol intake to one to two standard drinks per day or abstain is fine. It increases the reward value of food, and provides non-filling or non-satiating liquid calories. So you'd wanna balance that against any perceived benefits, but ultimately, if somebody's not drinking already, I don't think there's a health benefit to starting drinking, and generally speaking, less alcohol is better. For sodium intake, we would recommend to attack this by reducing intake of ultra-processed foods, especially those that have a lot of sodium. And then that's the primary source of excess sodium in the diet, as well as an increased calorie intake. So you come at it from both of those ends, eating less calories overall based on a better dietary pattern that defaults to a more correct energy intake, and also reduction in ultra-processed food intake reduces sodium intake. That doesn't apply to athletes. Their sodium needs are highly variable, and that's outside of what would be the dietary guidelines for Americans, that'd be dietary guidelines for athletes. For example, we have a hydration podcast we can refer you to on that. And finally, for supplements, now you're like, look, these are dietary guidelines for Americans. Why the heck are you talking about supplements? Come on, man. Well, 75% of Americans take dietary supplements every year. It's a $35 billion a year market. We wanna make sure that people are doing so responsibly. So a few things. One, you'd wanna make sure that your supplement, that you're taking, is third-party tested. The biggest sort of players in the space are NSF, informed for sport, that's who we use, USP. This is gonna be on the label somewhere. If it's not on the label and you still have questions, you can search these databases to make sure that they are third-party tested. You'd also wanna make sure that your supplement is certified for current good manufacturing processes, should also be on the label. It appears as a CGMP sort of shield type thing most of the time. And then after meeting those two criteria, there should be good evidence for not only safety, but as well as efficacy. Does it do the thing that you're taking it for? If a supplement meets all of those, we're probably in favor of you doing so. If you wanna spend the money, fortunately or unfortunately, depending on what your perspective is here, not a lot of supplements fit all those. So your supplement bill will be maybe less than you think. But on the other hand, if you own a supplement company, you probably didn't like that section. Yeah, I think that's fair. That's my similar take on the approach to supplements is like, there should be a concrete benefit that I'm looking for that for some reason is applicable to me. And I want it to, I want to feel confident that it is going to deliver that to me and that it is gonna be safe in doing so. And I don't know, there are very, very few supplements that meet those criteria. I even kind of shrug at taking creatine myself, not much more beyond that. Your brain health. Yeah, sure. Your brain, come on. How are you so smart without creatine? There are certainly some supplements that have maybe some more benefit for unique scenarios that don't necessarily apply to me, that I'd be open to discussing with somebody on a case-by-case basis. But overall, these guidelines are reasonable. I think that they reflect a lot of how you and I both tend to eat, I would say, more plants, more training, less sugar, less alcohol. Yeah. Might be an even simpler way to distill things down for a lot of people that have like a net benefit on population health. I would feel more confident that if I said those four things that there would be a bigger shift in population health if they were to uptake it, then by leaning harder into beef tallow. But that's my hot take for this one. Big bean energy. Yeah. All right, well, as we wrap this up, I'm struck by a sense of deja vu. In the 90s, we were given a map that ignored the biological reality of refined grains because it was more convenient for the economy. Now we're being given a new map that corrects the protein error, but seems to ignore the reality of lipidology, fiber, and food practices of the American public in general, all while creating division in the public. The reality is that the new food pyramid is mostly the same, is mostly fine, and it likely won't change how people eat in America. Now, barbal medicine, our guidelines are born from the existing evidence base and our experience in the field. We focus on things that actually move the needle if people were to do them. So things like environmental mastery, a protein recommendation that supports muscle and training, a fiber to carb ratio that protects the gut, and a P to S ratio that guards the heart. Now, if you want to take a deeper look at the barbal medicine dietary guidelines, we put together a comprehensive resource on our website that will be available soon. It'll be in the show notes as soon as it's ready. If you found this episode helpful, please share it with a friend or a family member. The best way to combat a rigged food environment is through community and shared evidence. While you're there, leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbal Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: The Case of The Paralyzed Personal Trainer [z0-kGBbqvRw].txt ===

 cschoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop dragging on the floor. He waits. He hopes it will resolve. But a year later, the paralysis is still there. And today, we're breaking down the medical mystery case of the paralyzed personal trainer. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm doing okay. Excited to be here. Feeling well. How are you? I'm all right. I got another mystery case for you involving a frequent guest of our podcast, the personal trainer. My prediction is that you're not going to get it. 50-50 shot. It's a supplement problem. Could be. Could be. Are you ready? I think so. I think so. Can I have one little preamble first? Sure. So just an interesting kind of anecdote is that we heard from a podcast listener recently who, after listening to one of our other recent mystery case episodes that ended up being a case of vitamin D toxicity, ended up actually recognizing symptoms in himself that were potentially related, got his lab tests checked. And sure enough, he had also vitamin D toxicity. And then this is another case that I saw recently in my telemedicine patient population, a woman whose vitamin D level was just reported as greater than 150, essentially off the charts, off the high end of the chart. And that was many months ago. And I asked, what were you told to do after that lab result? And she told me that she was told to reduce her high dose vitamin D supplementation from taking it twice weekly down to taking it once weekly. I said, that is also unwise and we should probably stop it altogether because this is going to last a long time before it gets better. And so we've caught multiple cases of vitamin D toxicity now in people who are kind of supplementing, not truly like mega dosing, just taking more than they need in inappropriate contexts. So, you know, buyer beware out there. Is this vitamin D maxing? Is that what this is called? An inadvisable strategy. We're currently in fiber maxing mode. So advise that over vitamin D maxing. Agreed. All right. Well, Austin, I have a consult for you. Okay, let's do it. The patient is a 24 year old male. He's in the emergency room right now. He came in because his new girlfriend finally convinced him to get his foot looked at. For the last year, he says that his right foot has been dragging whenever he walks. Prior to that, he says he's never had any issues with his feet or his ankles, but that he probably should have gotten it looked at sooner. He says that a year ago, he went off the rails on his diet for about two days. And afterwards, he started a rapid weight loss plan where he reportedly lost 22 pounds in two weeks. He was also exercising during this time, which involved a lot of high intensity sprints, squats, and aggressive stretching. Since then, he's had this foot issue every time he walks or tries to run. He reports tripping frequently if he tries to move too quickly and that he's had to go a little lighter on legs, but otherwise he's able to work out normally. He denies any back pain, any numbness in the groin, any bowel or bladder changes, or any trauma to the area. So Austin, we've got this 24 year old with a one year history of foot drop that appeared out of the blue. The initial story involves high intensity sprints, deep squats, and aggressive stretching. But it happened right as he lost about 13% of his body mass in about two weeks. So when you see a young active guy whose foot isn't working, yet he doesn't have any back pain or trauma, how do you go about building your differential? Is he getting imaging immediately or are you headed to the lab? Cool case. Okay. So I'm going to actually rewind a little bit from some of the kind of specificity that you layered into the case. So oftentimes when we start these things, we have a lot of clinical information, context, who the patient is, their past medical history, their details. And that kind of already gets you going in terms of narrowing things. But I like to start as broad as possible. And so I'm going to like, you know, back up from the fact that he's young, that he's previously healthy, that he had that backstory and just say, I have a patient who is experiencing what you're telling me, labeling as foot drop. Or we could just, we could say there's some kind of like weakness going on in the foot subjective until we prove it objectively on our, on our testing. And this is a relatively common problem. Just when somebody has the concern of weakness is really what I'm going to start with as broad and general as that is. The question when we start out with that is, is it just this kind of like generalized weakness? The person is feeling weak all over. What is, what does that really mean? How are they describing it? How are they experiencing it? Is it more fatigue? Is it weakness in terms of shortness of breath? Sometimes people feel dizzy and they say that they feel weak or is it what we'll call more focal? Is it in a specific area of the body? Are they unable to lift a particular limb or multiple limbs? Are they unable to lift both of their arms? Are they having trouble standing up out of a chair? These are all different things that can help us try to narrow down on where could this problem like live in, in the patient's body with weakness. That is kind of true weakness that there's an area of the body that is not able to be moved quite normally. The way we think about it is kind of, what is the normal physiological pathway to be able to exert force? And so that all starts up in the brain. You start in the brain with kind of your, your pre-motor cortex. And I'm not going to go through all the details of that, but the conscious centers that initiate volitional movement, those, you know, send their signals down the neurological axis from the brain down to the spinal cord, to the nerve roots. Those come out in the spinal nerves that come out from there. Those end in neuromuscular junctions that then meet up with the muscle. And then that muscle is signaled by way of depolarization, some ion shifts, things like that to contract that muscle contraction, pulls on a tendon across a joint and then moves the body part. And so we think from start to finish along that entire pathway to try to identify where could this problem be that would best explain the pattern of weakness that the patient has. So if it's in one very particular area of the body, that does tend to narrow down the places that we look. It tends to be more, is there a problem in the brain in a very particular spot? For example, people might be familiar with, oh, this patient had a stroke and now they're not able to lift their arm afterwards. Obviously that tends to manifest much more abruptly unless the patient has it. And then for whatever reason, doesn't notice it or doesn't think much of it and comes in a year later, um, that, you know, strokes tend to be more sudden abrupt onset type phenomena. The other end of that kind of axis, the nerve axis as we'll call it, tends to be things at the level of the joint, the tendon, the muscle, and the nerve ending that supplies that, um, uh, that muscle or the nerve that supplies that muscle. Those are all other areas that can have problems leading to weakness in a particular area. So if somebody has a joint problem, if they have a ruptured tendon, um, if they, if there's a muscle that for whatever reason is torn or is not working for some reason, and then if there are problems like a neuropathy, um, or a nerve problem that makes it unable to kind of stimulate and trigger that muscle to fire problems that arise in the spinal cord. And those are less likely in this situation because they tend, they're going to be less likely to be so localized to just the foot. We're going to expect to find more often other problems, like some of the things you mentioned, whether the patient might have some back pain or some urinary problems, or they would be more, maybe a little bit more likely to have symmetric problems on two sides of the body instead of just one foot, for example. And then thinking about the timeline of how long this has lasted. Again, I mentioned that strokes, for example, or other kind of like vascular problems tend to be sudden or abrupt, whereas the things that tend to last or develop over longer periods of time or last longer, they might be, for example, an infectious cause or an inflammatory cause that can impact the nerves. There are autoimmune diseases that can lead to nerve problems that can lead to foot drop, for example. There can be toxic, metabolic deficiency type issues that can lead to nerve problems. So people with, you know, heavy alcohol use, I've actually seen this exact thing happen in people who drink far too much on an alcohol related binge and have other sorts of, you know, concomitant problems, deficiencies, things like that. And then lastly, the other aspect of instead of kind of these more generalized problems that can affect the health and function of nerves would be, is there something mechanical or structural going on that is affecting the nerve? And so with foot drop in particular, that is one where there is a particular nerve that tends to be affected and that nerve splays around the area of the knee. You can speak more to this with your background masters in anatomy. I'm more the physiology guy here. But that nerve wraps around the head of the fibula and that then goes down and serves to fire the muscles that would help you actually lift your foot. So if there's something structural mechanical going on in that region, for example, when people have a fibular fracture, I believe is an example of something where that kind of trauma to that area can impact the bone and lead to a foot drop. So to summarize all of that, there's a big differential diagnosis for weakness in general. It narrows a little bit when you have weakness in a particular area. And then I'm trying to differentiate in this case, is it something going on in the brain? A bit less likely, but not impossible versus something more local, meaning at the level of the nerve, the muscle, the junction, things like that down in that area. And so that's kind of what I'm going to be interrogating a little bit more for this patient. Yeah, I really like that sort of concept map that you just laid out as far as how to go from, all right, here is this problem, in this case weakness, and how would you work through this just in a general sense? I really like that for learning or even just thinking about how stuff that happens with humans anyway, you could do it for almost any either behavior or any sort of action or any sort of disease. So anything from eating all the way to like diabetes, like what do you know, what needs to be involved for this thing to happen? Maybe unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on your perspective, you may highlight a lot of gaps in knowledge. And that happens to me quite frequently. When I started thinking through an issue, I'm like, I don't really know much about that particular area. You end up down a rabbit hole and you realize you don't know even more, in which case you call an expert. Yeah, I do this a lot when I'm teaching and I have learners, resident students with me, and they're trying to, you know, I'm watching them try to, you know, come up with their differential diagnosis or their plan. And I just have them like pause and rewind, just like walk me through your thought process. And that simple question often gets just like wide eyes. And despite a valiant attempt, it is very quickly apparent to me how much of a grasp the person has on this topic or whether they have one of those sort of what we call well-designed kind of frameworks or schema for this problem. So what I laid out is every time I see a patient with weakness somewhere, I'm doing that exact exercise, thinking through top to bottom, where could this problem be? What could explain this? And then layering that on top of the timeline, how quickly did it develop or how long has it been going on to narrow it further? Yeah, I remember on an anatomy test, we had this. So when I was in my master's program, it's different than med school, which mostly had multiple choice type answers. That's just to standardize everything. But for the master's program, they were like, now we'll read your stuff. So just write this, write this answer. And it was like, imagine a patient gets shot, you know, in the, you know, from the front of his chest, take me through all of the anatomical structures that this bullet would pass through. Yep, exactly. Immediately apparent. Do you know your stuff or do you not? All right, let's dive back into this. Like it's who wants to be a millionaire. You know, the music comes in and the lights go down low. All right, Regis. Back to our patient. Let's dive into some of this objective data to see if we can get you closer to a diagnosis. So his vital signs are normal and he appears to be a healthy young man in no apparent distress, sitting upright in bed. He's already had an extensive lab workup in the emergency room. So his metabolic panel and his chemistry labs are normal, suggesting that, for example, he doesn't have anemia and his kidneys and liver appear to be functioning relatively normally. Also had a TSH, his thyroid stimulated hormone, a hemoglobin A1c to look at his fasting blood sugar, blood sugar control over the past few months, and his vitamin B12 are all stone cold normal as well. They also ran some inflammatory markers, his ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and a CRP, C-reactive protein. Those were both normal. And of course, your favorite, he had an ANA run to look for maybe some sort of autoimmune contribution that was negative. Now on the physical exam, the motor deficit shows significant abnormalities. He's got zero out of five strength in right ankle dorsiflexion, trying to pull his toes up towards his shin, and zero out of five strength in foot eversion, trying to rotate his heel outwardly. The anterior and lateral compartments of the lower limb, so the front and the side, are completely silent. However, his foot inversion, trying to rotate his heel inwardly, is rock solid. Five out of five strength there. His plantar flexion, trying to push down against the ground at the level of the ankle, is also five out of five. We also checked his hip abduction and extension. Both were symmetric and five out of five in strength. Visually, he has significant atrophy over the tibialis anterior, that's the muscle on the front of the leg, and his peroneal muscles, given that lower leg kind of a hollowed out appearance next to the shin. But the calf remains well-developed and muscular. For reflexes, his patellar and Achilles reflexes are plus two and symmetric. Sensation-wise, he's mostly intact, but he does describe a sort of dead feeling or numbness on the top of his foot, specifically in the triangular patch of skin between his big toe and his second toe, that web space. A sensory exam over the lateral calf is preserved. He also had him walk the hall, and when he did, he had to lift his right leg up really high for each step, and then his foot sort of slapped down on the ground each time. And in the ED, they said, well, look, foot drop equals bad back, so they actually sent him for some imaging. So he had plain x-rays or radiographs of the lumbar spine, the pelvis, and his right lower limb. Those were all unremarkable. He then had a MRI of his lumbar spine to look for disc herniation or signs of nerve damage, and the report just came back. The back is pristine. No disc herniations, no foraminal stenosis, and the lumbosacral plexus looked entirely normal. So, Austin, we've got this year-long weakness with an apparently clean spine and a patient who just spent two weeks preceding this on a crash diet. If the MRI says the source isn't the back and the history says that it started exactly when the weight vanished, how are you changing your differential, if anything? Yeah, I realized that in my prior discussion, I kept it general the whole time and never focused in on the specific context, which I'll do now, because I do have a suspicion of what could be going on here. I think the most remarkable thing about all this, honestly, is I want to know what ER has the interest, the willingness, and the capacity to do that amount of workup on a guy who came in after a year of this symptom and sent him for an MRI in the ER. That should not have happened. End of the month, clodas, cloday. This is not an emergency department problem. But yeah, some of those labs, a little bit helpful. Most of them, I was not really expecting much to be abnormal about them. Again, I think that my suspicion of something going on in this patient's brain, which, you know, interestingly was not addressed at all here, is very, very, very low. The idea of something going on in his back, also quite low based on the history. The exam that you're describing is just a total classic foot drop exam, what you describe as what's called a high stepping gate. And then the specific pattern of dorsiflexion and eversion being, you know, gone while maintaining the functions of the other muscles in the lower leg that are not served by that nerve. So this is a very, very focal process. There still can be generalized systemic diseases that manifest with a single nerve being down. However, not for a year. So for example, I mentioned some of those like autoimmune conditions, there are certain kinds of vasculitis, for example, that can cause neuropathies developing all over the body. We call that something called mononeuritis multiplex that can happen. But again, he's had one nerve that has been down for a year and no other issues that have developed. So already that takes many of those kinds of like small vessel vasculitis like off the table. This is much more likely now to be a local, much more likely to be a structural mechanical type problem in that area than it is something more generalized systemic, like an autoimmune disease or a deficiency like thymine, you know, related issues or that they measured B12. You know, that wouldn't manifest this way either. So things like that. So now I'm much more honed in on like something is probably going on in that particular area. And I would want to take a closer look at the level of the knee and the lower leg and the foot, which we did a pretty good neuro exam from what was described here. There has not been apparent trauma that happened in the area. The context of rapid weight loss. So let's talk through like what can happen in that situation. There can be metabolic changes that can happen with rapid weight loss in terms of say fluctuations in glycemic issues, you know, lipid changes that happen in the blood. We've talked before that, for example, when people undergo rapid weight loss, how that can increase the risk of like gallstone formation and other sorts of things like that. Not at all relevant to this case, but just examples of there are certain physiologic changes that we expect to find when people undergo rapid weight loss in various ways. If the patient is on certain medicines and they lose a whole bunch of weight, maybe the medicine that they're taking suddenly is like way more than they need and that can end up leading to downstream problems. But there are also some interesting kind of structural and mechanical type changes that can happen. And so some of the medical students in the audience might recognize or they might have heard, for example, in the abdomen, there are certain mechanical and structural changes that can happen when people undergo rapid weight loss. So there are like some normal amount of like health, I don't know about calling it healthy necessarily, but ever present body fat in our abdominal compartment, for example, that sits under some of our celiac and mesenteric vessels. And so one issue that can arise when people undergo rapid weight loss is the loss of that body fat that can lead to a change in some of the configuration of those vessels, particularly as they relate to the gut. And so things like the relationship between the, I forget if it's the celiac artery or the superior mesenteric artery and the small bowel, and then that can lead to some like functional obstruction essentially, because you don't have that added padding around it. So that's one like well-described phenomenon of what happens when there is like a rapid loss of this fat depot in that area. And so, you know, in this context, the thing that I, the things that I'd be thinking about somebody with rapid, you know, significant weight losses, a much less likely is there, was there some kind of deficiency that developed? No, that doesn't fit this story, this patient, that timeline. Like if you underwent two days of binge eating, he probably topped himself off on nutrients for a long period of time and vitamins and all those kinds of things that can lead to this. And so losing a bunch of weight in the aftermath, you would still not become abruptly deficient, nor would you stay deficient enough to lead to this presentation for a year afterwards. So that doesn't fit at all the timing and the context here. So I'm much more concerned about a mechanical, like a local structural type phenomenon. I'd be curious about what has his weight trajectory been ever since that initial weight loss? Like did he lose that 22 pounds and then he either maintained it or he continued to lose weight? Because if he had, then that could actually fit where there is some normal, you know, body fat in all of these little areas. And when you lose it, there can become structural and mechanical changes. And there is this phenomenon known as slimmers paralysis, where patients who lose a bunch of weight abruptly, they can end up with issues in the legs, including things like foot drop as a result of just like in that abdominal compartment, losing body fat, changing the orientation of the nerves and the muscles relative to the bones, and they can become compressed. And a compressed nerve, a chronically compressed nerve is an unhappy nerve that doesn't really work as well to fire the muscles. And that can lead to the downstream dysfunction and atrophy and things like that. So that's kind of what I'm worried about. What I would do next, of course, is, yeah, look back at his weight trajectory to see like what exactly has happened there. And then I might, you know, engage because I don't personally, you know, perform things like, you know, nerve conduction studies or something like that. And if that is, I don't even think it's really necessary to make the diagnosis here. But if you wanted to, for academic purposes, to really like localize the lesion to that focal site, that would be a way to do that. Well, fortunately, or unfortunately, again, depending on your perspective, you're going to have to do some interpretation of some nerve conduction studies. Don't worry, I've tried to make this as accessible as possible, not only for you, but also for our audience and for me, certainly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is this is stuff that's typically in like the territory of neurologists and PM&R or physiatry doctors, not internists. But I actually I turfed this to my neurology friend to get some feedback on this to make sure we're accurate. So yeah, since the spine was clean on the MRI, we do have to start looking elsewhere, like the muscles and nerves themselves. You walked us through that process quite nicely. So electrodiagnostic studies were ordered, which are divided into two parts here, one nerve conduction study, and then electromyography, which you might know better as EMG. Now for the listeners at home, you can think of the nerve conduction studies as a technician testing a fiber optic cable. They tap into one end of the nerve, they send a pulse down it, and they measure three specific things. First, they measure latency. This is the time it takes for the signal to start, essentially the reaction time of the nerve. Second, they measure amplitude. This is the strength or the volume of the signal, which tells us how many individual nerve fibers or axons are actually alive and functioning. And third, they test velocity, the speed at which the signal travels down the wire, which tells us if the insulation or myelin sheath is still intact. Now in this patient, when they tested the motor division of the common peroneal nerve, the results were definitive, non-recordable across the board, no latency, no amplitude, and no measurable velocity. The motor division, the nerves responsible for the muscles that lift the foot and turn it outward, weren't working. For the anatomy nerves at home, the common peroneal nerve, as you mentioned earlier, splits into the deep peroneal nerve, which controls the tibialis anterior for dorsiflexion. Again, it's bringing your toes back towards the shin. And it also splits into the superficial peroneal nerve, which controls the peroneus longus and brevis on the outside of the lower limb for eversion, turning the foot outwardly. In this case, the entire common peroneal distribution below the knee was silent. They also checked F waves. This is a round-trip signal that travels from the point of stimulation at the leg all the way up to the motor neurons in the spinal cord and back down again. It acts as a sort of long-range scout to see if there's a blockage anywhere from the foot to the spine. In this patient, the F waves were also non-recordable. But then there's a twist. His sensory nerve conduction was completely normal. This measures nerves that carry feeling from the skin back to the brain. This tells us that the injury was selectively targeting the motor axons while leaving the sensory fibers largely untouched. Next, we move to the needle EMG or electromyography. This is where they stick a small electrode directly into the muscle to look at its electrical activity. Now, normal resting muscles are pretty quiet. But if a muscle has lost its nerve supply, the fibers can become kind of irritable. They start firing on their own. Now, this is a sign that the muscle has lost its nerve supply, which is also called denervation. In this patient, the tibialis anterior and the peroneal muscles showed heavy denervation. This is obvious from the atrophy that we saw in physical exam. But there's also an electrical signature called fibrillation potentials, which are these small little waves that you can pick up on EMG, another sign that the muscles have been denervated. Interestingly, when the short head of the biceps femoris, that's part of your hamstrings muscle, was tested, something strange was found. This is the only muscle supplied by the peroneal nerve that branches off above the knee. And in this patient, that muscle was stone cold normal. So, Austin, let's look at the map we've drawn. We got a 24-year-old male with a clean MRI. We got a nerve that can still carry sensory information, but its muscle division isn't working. The electrical block has been precisely localized. Everything above the knee is working, but everything below the knee is electrically silent from that nerve. Given that this apparently started right after his weight loss and high-intensity exercise program, do you have a final diagnosis for what the heck happened to this patient? Yeah, this has only further supported my suspicion so far. And one curiosity here, I mean, he did seem to mention that he had a little bit of some maybe subjective numbness on the dorsum of the foot, which could also fit with some of the sensory distribution of these nerves. Maybe it wasn't enough of a sensory dysfunction to be detected by the study. But yeah, a lot of that is, I would say, not necessarily above my pay grade, but adjacent to it because the details of those studies are not really in my field. But yeah, this really heavily localizes it to the level of the knee. And so my suspicion is that there was either some unknown, unrecognized, unappreciated trauma with his high-intensity exercise at the time that affected the nerve at his knee during that time, or this is a case of, again, rapid weight loss-induced so-called slimmer's paralysis, where the rapid fat loss in that area leads to functional kind of compression of the nerve. And again, if his weight dropped and has remained low, or he never regained body fat to kind of restore padding in that area, the nerve would not really have an ability to kind of recover its function, innervate that muscle, and lead to him to be able to lift his foot again. So that's kind of where I'm at. Color me impressed. The diagnosis is slimmer's paralysis, historically known as dieting palsy. It is a nerve entrapment of the common peroneal nerve at the fibular head. It was once a historical rarity associated with prisoners of war and individuals with severe anorexia nervosa. But there's some concern that there could be a modern spike or uptick in cases with the increased popularity of GLP-1s. Now, the pathophysiology you did describe as mostly a functional compression, but there's some thought there's a second hit, so this sort of two-hit model. As you talked about, hit number one is the depletion of that internal armor of fat. The common peroneal nerve is pretty vulnerable because it is tethered as it winds around the neck of the fibula. That's the outside smaller bone in your lower limb. In a healthy state, it's enveloped by the structural fat pad. The fat pad acts as a mechanical shock absorber, and it physically increases the space in the fibular tunnel so the nerve isn't pinched against the bone. Now, when this guy lost 11 kilos, 22 pounds in two weeks, the body presumably mobilized fat stores so rapidly that it stripped away the structural fat pad. And so without that cushion, the nerve was left sitting directly on the bone, leaving the margin of safety for compression at zero. Now, the second hit is the mechanical provocation. So he was doing the high-intensity sprints, squats, aggressive stretching, whatever that means, while his fat pad was progressively getting thinner. And so when active, that nerve needs the fat pad to dissipate pressure. Otherwise, the pressure on the nerve can get too high and disrupt blood flow to the nerve. The nerve do have a blood supply. It's pretty delicate. It's called the vasovasorum. Now, when this blood supply is compromised, nerve conduction temporarily stops. We call that neuropraxia. If it's prolonged, though, the nerve can die, and it must regrow from the site of injury. And this process is slow. This wall area and regeneration, like a millimeter a day, it's slow, and it can be incomplete. That's what apparently happened to this patient. By the time he got to the emergency room, the damage was done. He had spent 12 months with basically zero motor signal reaching those muscles. The receivers, the motor end plates in the muscles of his shin, the side of his leg, had undergone some fibrosis. They were no longer capable of receiving a signal, even if the nerve did manage to grow back. So at that point, his treatment plan shifted from neurological recovery to orthopedic salvage. He underwent a posterior tibialis tendon transfer. Essentially, the surgeons took a functioning muscle from the back of his leg and anchored it to the top of his foot. He kind of had to retrain himself how to walk and pull his foot up with this new hardware. So there's a thought that this might be coming more common, like a pharmaceutical slimmer. The GLP-1 agonists like terzepatide and retatratide can induce weight loss velocities that mimic bariatric surgery. And while the weight of weight loss isn't necessarily a problem when it's appropriately monitored, inappropriate use, and specifically facilities that are like pill mills could be increasing the risk of this. Now, the incidence of general peripheral neuropathy following metabolic bariatric surgery is reported to be somewhere between 5% to 15%. Now, that's after surgery. And within this broad category, the peroneal mononeuropathy, so single nerve issue, is one of the most frequently cited presentations. Historically, again, as prisoners of war, the incidence was about 10% in these individuals. I assume that would happen over a longer period of time just due to kind of what was happening. But in surgical cohorts, the latest evidence we have on this suggests a higher percentage than 10%, maybe closer to 15%, mostly at high-volume centers. And the incidence is probably underappreciated because it's underreported and potentially mild transient cases could be missed as like temporary numbness. So the condition is overwhelmingly unilateral or one-sided. 96% of cases are on one side rather than being bilateral, which kind of speaks to this systemic sort of...  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo the inciting event, the mechanical sort of thing that put it over the top. When studied, the most critical marker risk factor is the velocity of weight loss. So on average, people that get this are losing about 10 percent of their body weight per month, which is ends up in about five point four kilos in this particular cohort. So there's some and there's also some additional risk factors that are kind of uniquely affect this population. So first off, the population that generally goes about rapid weight loss or uses metabolic bariatric surgery or GLP ones, they tend to be more commonly individuals with the history of metabolic syndrome or type two diabetes. So there's already perhaps some baseline metabolic neuropathy going on. And then these individuals can undergo rapid weight loss, which mobilizes the fat from those structural fat pads at this particularly vulnerable area, removing that shock absorber. And then, yeah, there's a biomechanical trigger potentially. So prolonged leg crossing, squatting, kneeling, et cetera. All of this could kind of put it over the edge. And there may be some co-occurring micronutrient deficiencies, specifically for folks on either who've had metabolic bariatric surgery and are being not monitored as closely nutrition wise. So like vitamin B1, which is thiamine, B12 or copper deficiency can all synergistically impair the nerve's ability to repair itself. And a nerve starved of these essential vitamins is less resilient to perhaps that ischemic stress, you know, lack of blood flow caused by the collapse of that fibular tunnel. So treatment typically revolves around weight stabilization, perhaps some B vitamin supplementation, orthosis for the foot. So just to keep it in the correct position so you don't get a contracture and so on. If there's no clinical or electrodiagnostic evidence of recovery after about three months, surgical decompression is sometimes indicated because they don't want those motor end plates. So basically where the nerve attaches to the muscle, that end plate, that interface, they don't want that to fibrose or degenerate because otherwise you're kind of up a creek like our patient. Because after in chronic cases like what he had, yeah, you're going to have to have a tendon transfer so you can walk without your foot kind of slapping the ground. Yeah, I did not know that that was a thing that could be done to manage this. So I'm glad there are some kind of creative orthopods out there who can put people back together again a different way. But yeah, you have to relearn how to like use that new newly transplanted muscle and presumably has, you know, permanent impact on function. You have to kind of relearn how to do basic things, I imagine, with the help. But that's what PM&R doctors are great at. So, yeah. Now, Austin, there's been a few case reports that have come out of individuals on GLP-1s having this. One case was actually titled the terzepatide drop. Have you seen this with any patients? Is this something that's on your radar? Yeah, I've used these medicines with lots and lots of folks. I've not seen this happen yet, although I'm aware of it as an entity. And, you know, I think it's one of those things that is a known risk. It is one of the potential tradeoffs that somebody might experience. But at the same time, it is one of the downsides of, again, just like unmonitored, overly rapid weight loss. And so having kind of it done in a way that is monitored, that is supported, where doses are being adjusted, where nutrition is being monitored. I mean, I've had also patients who I'm actually concerned that, you know, maybe their appetite is being suppressed too much and they're not actually getting in enough nutrition as they are losing weight. And that sets them up for all sorts of other deficiencies and iron deficiency and things like that. So, you know, we are – I'm quite comfortable using these medicines. I've been using them for a while now with many, many patients with great – some with – most of them, I would say, with great success and some who have speed bumps along the way that need to be kind of navigated individually. But, yeah, that kind of monitoring and guidance along the way I think is important rather than just like more is better or faster no matter what. Yeah. Yeah, I wanted to bring this case up not only because it's interesting. I did find it interesting. Yeah. But because it also raises a fundamental question in our field. Is faster actually better when it comes to weight loss? Mm-hmm. We often hear the argument that rapid initial weight loss is more motivating for the patient or the client, which theoretically could improve long-term adherence. But as this case proves, there can be a physiological cost. So I wanted to pivot the discussion towards the actual evidence on weight loss velocity. And we need to look at the tradeoff between the speed of the result and the quality of the tissue loss, specifically the preservation of lean body mass and the avoidance of collateral fattening, which is a physiological phenomenon where the body aggressively drives overeating following a period of weight loss to restore the lost lean body mass. And while doing so, the individual actually gains a bunch of fat mass alongside the lean mass. So let's start with the most obvious question. Does the data support the slow and steady mantra when it comes to weight loss? There's a safety concern. We've kind of talked about that. This slimmers paralysis, mostly related to a weight loss velocity that exceeds 10% of total body weight per month, which would be quite high for most folks. And you brought up gallstones and nutritional deficiencies. Are there any other risks or safety concerns that you have top of mind when somebody is losing weight relatively quickly? I think you alluded to one of them being that, hey, are we having some unfavorable changes in terms of the lean body mass aspect? There are certainly many favorable things. So, for example, if somebody has fatty liver disease, I would expect that to get better rapidly as people because the liver starts rapidly exporting a bunch of that fat. I think I would have to sit down and think like organ system by organ system to decide are there are there concerns from a neurological standpoint? We really covered the main one of deficiencies are the mechanical neuropathies that can develop not much from a pulmonary standpoint, not much from a renal standpoint. I'm sure there can be some things from a cardiovascular side, mainly relating to is there a hypovolemia, meaning is the person not eating or drinking enough and they end up getting low blood pressure, they get dizziness, they might be more likely to pass out. That's something that I've actually seen a fair amount of. And people, for example, who are on blood pressure medicines often need those to be adjusted. The other thing with especially like aggressive crash diets, things like that, where people are more prone to electrolyte abnormalities, you can end up with cardiovascular complications, arrhythmias, things like that that can develop. Let's see what else. So I mentioned the liver, the gallstones we've talked about, the intra-abdominal fat, which itself, you know, the gallstone risk can I've not seen like rapid weight loss associated pancreatitis, but that's probably that may be a thing that can happen, whether by way of a gallstone or if you're liberating a lot of free fatty acids into the bloodstream. And you get like severe high triglycerides, I guess that's another way that you could get there. And then again, not much in terms of the like lower GI tract or the kidneys or definitely the genitourinary tracts, not much that comes to mind. And then from there, it's musculoskeletal nature. So the muscle mass loss is the thing that comes to mind. I don't know how much of an impact I would expect with very short term rapid weight loss on bone health. I'm sure there'd be something detectable. Whether that translates into a negative longer term outcome, it'd be hard to say. So that's my like rapid pass through the organ systems and what I can think of off the top of my head. Yeah, I think that's quite good. The only other thing that comes to mind is maybe on the back end, right? It's like, great, you lost the weight, you know, if that's the target. But if if and when rate weight regain starts, if it's rapid and you were really restricted for a period of time, the refeeding syndrome type thing. We've had cases of like thyroid, thyroid toxic periodic paralysis and some other just electrolyte abnormality stuff. So, yeah, that's a concern. So that's safety. Moving on to what our listeners are probably more interested in body composition. So the impact of weight loss speed or weight loss velocity on muscle mass differs significantly between athletes, lean individuals and the general population with obesity. So for athletes, the data for sure supports slow and steady. Now, there is some nuance here because there are papers out there describing relatively quick, dramatic weight loss to make weight with preserved performance. There are a few different ways to do this. It's not highly reliable or conserved across everybody. It kind of varies significantly. We're going to set that to the side and talk about more just, hey, should you lose weight rapidly or slowly if you're an individual who's really interested in performance or otherwise an athlete? And I think there's a really good study to show the evidence on this and kind of demonstrate our position. So this is a group of elite Norwegian athletes from a variety of different sports. They were randomized to either slow or fast weight loss groups. Slow weight loss group followed a diet that resulted in losing about 0.7 percent of their body weight per week, whereas the fast weight loss group doubled it 1.4 percent body weight per week. So that's almost 6 percent per month. Now, the study ran until all athletes reached the desired weight loss, which was a minimum of 4 percent decrease in their body weight. So it lasts between 4 to 12 weeks during the study period. Both groups also engaged in resistance training four times a week. At the end of the study period, body weight decreased by about 5.5 percent in both groups, with the slow weight loss group losing a higher percentage of body fat compared to the fast group. Additionally, the slow weight loss groups on increase in their lean body mass by about 2 percent, which might be a measurement error, but it's still not a loss, which it seems positive. And their one rep max squat and bench press improvements were greater in the slow weight loss group compared to the fast group. About 12 percent for the squat in the slow group versus 9 percent for the fast group and 13.6 percent for the bench press group who was using a slow weight loss approach compared to 6.4 percent in the fast group. Overall, to me, this suggests like, look, if you're already relatively lean, you know, and you're trying to get even leaner, probably slower is better if performance is a concern. But on the other on the other side of the coin for individuals with obesity, the data really kind of challenges that slow mantra. There's been a few recent meta analyses that suggest for individuals with obesity, the rate of weight loss does not inherently dictate the amount of muscle loss provided that protein intake and resistance training are controlled. We know those are two big levers that like preserve muscle mass. And in this particular population, it doesn't seem like going faster produces more lean body mass loss. Individuals with higher body fat can mobilize fatty acids more effectively and they have more of it to do so. And that can cover some of the energy deficits and preserve some of the muscle loss. This is a lot of the mechanistic stuff that keto advocates tend to cite. But, yeah, it actually looks like this plays out for individuals with obesity who do lose weight a little faster. So you might potentially choose that if somebody was interested in doing so with knowing the potential risks and maybe having that top end velocity ceiling of 10 percent per month in mind. The next thing we've got to move on to is metabolic adaptation. Austin, do you ever talk about metabolic adaptation with your patients? Not using those terms. I think the concepts are kind of baked into my my conversation, mainly when, you know, I have these conversations all the time now with folks who have many times been struggling with their weight their entire life and feel like they're doing everything right. And yet, despite their best efforts, they either struggle to make progress or they make initial progress and then things tend to rebound. And so it's kind of baked in as part of the explanation of how, quote, unquote, the body fights back after your initial weight loss efforts, both in terms of increasing appetite and that kind of question of metabolic adaptation. I put a lot more emphasis on the appetite aspects here, but that's something that's kind of baked into that conversation implicitly. Yeah. Yeah. People talk about metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis or, you know, you broke your metabolism, something like that. You know, they talk about it frequently, but the definition is kind of messy. The way I define it and the way that a lot of researchers that I read define it is that metabolic adaptation is a greater than expected reduction in the amount of calories used in a day in response to weight loss. So, for example, we know as your body mass goes down, you're going to burn less calories because you have less mass. Now, that proportion of muscle to fat loss, those two things require different amounts of energy per day. And so if you lose way more muscle than fat, you could go down more. This is all predictable. Metabolic. That's not metabolic adaptation. Metabolic adaptation is if there's additional reductions in how many calories that you need per day to keep the lights on in your body that we don't predict by just the tissue loss alone. So it's maybe like a metabolic efficiency increase. Data indicates that rapid weight loss increases the metabolic adaptation more than gradual weight loss. And there's actually a really good meta analysis that came out, I think, in 2020. Yeah, there's a deeper suppression or greater suppression of resting metabolic rate. That's basically how many calories you use per day to keep the lights on in your body. In a comparative analysis, rapid weight loss groups who lost about seven and a half kilos reduced their resting metabolic rate by about 137 calories per day compared to only 87 calories per day in a gradual weight loss group who lost about the same weight. They also didn't have significant differences in lean mass that was preserved. So kind of speaking more to that, what we just said, that, look, for individuals with obesity, it doesn't look like they're going to lose that much more muscle mass, if any, if they lose it rapidly. But there might be some more metabolic adaptation. What's not clear to me is if this is actually meaningful, meaning that, yeah, there's a difference in calories by, you know, 50, 60 calories. But most of these studies or short term, eight weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, does this end up shaking out in the long run and does it even matter? For example, we look at even the biggest loser data. The most the people who lost the most weight and kept it off the longest had the most metabolic adaptation. And so to me, it's almost like individuals who are maybe genetically set up in a way to be obesity sensitive to not only the environment, but then also like resistant to weight loss interventions overall. They may just have, you know, this is the lot in life that they've kind of they've kind of got. They were dealt a not so great hand genetically, and it is what it is. And so I don't know that we should be micromanaging or selecting a particular dietary approach or intervention otherwise that focuses on metabolic adaptation. What do you think about that? Yeah, I fully agree with that. And I think that knowing or I wouldn't even claim to know, but having a general sense of just the sheer number of variables that can impact these types of outcomes with this concept of metabolic adaptation just being one of them. It's like you're you're moving a fraction of a tiny chess piece on like this super complex multivariate board. Many variables we can't even appreciate many variables. We don't we can't even modify. So like control the big things that you can and then the rest may or may not be entirely within your control. And this feels like one of those really tiny ones that is both probably less within our control than we would like it to be, but also less significant of a factor than it is often attributed to be. Yeah, I think it's something you can observe, but to the extent you can control it. I don't I don't think so. I think it's more of like an adaptive response and like mostly, you know, managed or influenced by things outside of your control. And then I almost view it as like a like a signature of success. If you didn't get any metabolic adaptation, I don't know that you lost that much weight. Yeah, that's fair. So that's that's the metabolic adaptation arm of this. So moving on to adherence, there's this thought, well, look, you have to go low and slow because that's the that's the only way you can keep it off long term or adhere to this diet long term or intervention long term. Well, contrary to that belief that thinks that slow weight loss is more sustainable, the data suggests that rapid initial results can actually be beneficial for adherence. There's a number of studies on this showing that the amount of weight loss initially within the first few weeks sort of predicts not only achieving that minimally clinically important difference in weight change. So losing at least five percent of their starting body weight, but also maintaining it so can be predictive. And whether this is like a positive feedback loop, like from a behavioral standpoint, like, oh, I was able to succeed. I'm going to keep going. Or if it just identifies those who can be successful, like the people who don't lose a bunch of weight initially, they're like, well, you weren't going to be successful anyway. So good luck. I can't speak to that. But is this something you see in your practice that people they start on these medications or, for example, just lifestyle alone? The initial sort of burst kind of predicts how they do long term. You see that? Yeah, it's tough to say. I think that I emphasize with patients just how individual this whole process is, especially with the use of medicines, that different people respond differently to different medicines and to different doses of medicines. If I had to guess that, yeah, if I start somebody on the lowest dose of terzepatide, for example, and they experience, you know, a dramatic impact on their appetite, they're super sensitive to it and lose a bunch of weight. In general, those people I would predict to have better outcomes compared with somebody who doesn't feel much of anything. And I'm cranking it all the way up to the max dose of 15 milligrams. However, I have also seen plenty of people. And I recently had some of these conversations, a patient who started on two and a half and they were like not responding terribly well to it just yet. And they were starting to get apprehensive. They're like, should I shouldn't I be feeling more? Am I a hypo responder? And I'm like, cool. Like we don't we don't know that yet. There are plenty of people who actually don't really tend to respond a ton to the lower doses. And then we reach some sort of maybe a threshold effect in people. Once we get to seven and a half and something unlocks and then they start making a ton of progress. So I hesitate based on my own kind of observational experience here to draw any sort of confident conclusion other than I've seen massive amounts of variability between people and how they respond. Both physiologically and, of course, psychologically as well. So the process, some people are like totally open and patient and no concerns. Others are much more impatient and want to see a big result on a low dose and get apprehensive if they're not getting there. Other people think that they really want to be on the maximum dose. And I'm like, well, if you're responding well to the lower dose, we don't actually have to increase it. And similar in terms of intensities of other interventions. Right. When it comes to regular dietary interventions, exercise interventions, just people are massively different. The sheer number of variables at play, both known and unknown, is just enormous here. And again, many of them are things that you did not choose or you were not in control of. Right. And so that's kind of part of the challenge that we're trying to deal with, with as good as these tools are that we have still compared with that level of complexity. Relatively, relatively crude, I would say, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And moving on to the final sort of thought between like, look, it's slower, better than faster. What about the potential for weight regain? The prevailing dogma is that slow and steady prevents weight regain. Well, it's not really supported by data as well. Large scale studies, including this Purcell study we're going to talk about, as well as the National Weight Loss Control Registry, consistently find no significant difference in the amount of weight regained over the long term between slow and rapid weight loss. Again, it kind of doesn't really matter for individuals with obesity. So this Purcell study is interesting. It's a randomized trial, 200 participants. One group underwent a rapid weight loss program, 12 weeks, where they want a very low calorie diet, like 800 calories a day. The other one went on a gradual program where they reduced their intake by 500 calories per day. The success rate, the rapid weight loss group was far more likely to hit their target weight loss. About 81 percent of that group was successful compared to the slow weight loss group. Only 50 percent was successful. After three years, both groups regained roughly 70 percent of their lost weight. The rapidity of the initial loss did not make the regain worse. And maintenance was equally difficult for both groups, which is kind of how I view this. I'm like, I don't really care if you go fast or slow. My main concern is that you got there because I think maintaining that is going to be challenging either way. But first, we got to get there to even worry about maintenance. Does that make sense for you? Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this a lot where it matters how you got there with certain things. But with other areas, it's like we really care about the outcome. And so to the extent we see a lot of people now, especially like kind of moralizing around, did you get there with diet and exercise? Or did you use the medicines or did you use the surgery? And it's like we put a lot more emphasis on like, let's get there. Yeah. And then and then, you know, the details of how you got there and the implications of that and what does maintenance look like? We can kind of negotiate along the way. This is another super common conversation I'm having with folks who even before we've even started, for example, the use of a GLP-1 agonist. They're like, well, what does it look like when it comes to maintenance? And it's like, well, happy to have that conversation, of course. And I lay it out for them. But it's like we got we got to get there first before we can negotiate. What does that look like for you? And we can't even predict. Are you going to be somebody who needs to continue using one of the medicines? Are you somebody who might be able to get away with lowering the dose or using it a little less frequently? Are you one of the, you know, relatively few people, maybe in the order of 15 percent of people who can actually come all the way down, potentially even off the medicine and sustain, you know, the majority of your weight loss? There's a lot of variation in how this looks in practice. But let's get there is the primary goal. Yeah. The analogy is like with blood pressure. Right. You know, we've talked about on this podcast before that apparently starting with multiple very low dose antihypertensive seem to work better than like maxing out one particular drug. Right. And so imagine you have a patient and you're walking them through this and they're on board. They're like, look, doc, whatever you think is right. And so they're ready to start multiple agents at a low dose. But then immediately right after that, they're like, and when can I come off? And you're like, well, maybe let's let's get there first and then we'll talk about it because, yeah, it directly impacts the risk. Now, this brings up a new paper that just got released. It's getting a lot of traffic. New study from Mass General Harvard. So, you know, it's going to get some airplay. The study is titled Weight Regain After Cessation of Medication for Weight Management, a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. This was just published. I'll link it in the show notes below. Basically, they did a meta-analysis, a study of studies on people who were on anti-abesia medications. And like, look, what happened after they got off? Now, 37 studies were included, about 10,000 patients, and they included all sorts of different anti-abesia medications. So not just GLP-1s, but even some of the older agents. And invariably, there are differences in not only how much weight was lost, but what happens afterwards. Now, the mainstream media and maybe some, we'll call them GLP-1 skeptics is not the right word. Maybe like anti-GLP-1 people, whatever. It seems like that anyway. There's plenty of those out there we know. They're like, look, after you come off the medication, you regain the weight, and you regain the weight faster than if you did lifestyle alone. And so in this particular study, they showed that, you know, the systematic review and meta-analysis, they show that, look, people come off these medications, they regain weight four times faster than those who are on lifestyle change alone, so diet and exercise. Failing to mention that the people who are on these medications lost way more weight on average. And so, yes, the absolute rate of weight regain tends to be faster because they lost more weight in the first place, but also ignores a few other kind of nuances here. So nuance number one, when we just restrict the analysis to GLP-1s on their own and we look at like one-year data of people who come off and they're off for a year, actually seem to preserve more weight loss overall than people on lifestyle alone. Now, whether that, you know, gets back to, you know, null and zero at two years, three years, four, we don't know. But at least in the first year, it looks like, look, some sort of durable effect of these agents. And then two, which is not really a nuanced point, but maybe the total point, like any intervention that causes an effect, you'll likely have to continue doing that intervention to preserve that effect, whether it's diet and exercise alone, whether it's medication, whether it's both, you know, whatever. It's not like you can just do it and be like, okay, I don't have to do it anymore. It's done. Yeah, that's, I mean, honestly, most interventions that we have. Here's another interesting hot take that I will have. I have heard rumblings that there are some groups, and I've not confirmed this for myself yet, that looking into, for example, some of the gene-based therapies around GLP-1 signaling. For example, we have existing, you know, therapies for this in the context of sickle cell disease, for example. There are some that are being studied for lipid management as well, essentially like a one-time dose of this gene-editing treatment that will then lead to a permanent durable lowering of your blood lipid levels, or that will edit your, you know, sickling hemoglobin genes to essentially cure that condition. So I'm curious to see for all of these folks who are vehemently against the use of GLP-1s, because when you tend to stop the therapy, the effects of the therapy do not persist. I have to assume that they will be vigorously in favor of one-time treatment options for this kind of thing. Yeah, they're not going to be either. And I don't know that I am either, because I'm just open to seeing what are the potential benefits, what are the potential downsides, and I will evaluate that evidence, like, you know, on its own when it comes to pass. But it's kind of disingenuous, and it's going to be very predictable how that ends up playing out, I think, on their part. Yeah, if you agree that the sort of root cause of obesity is a genetic mismatch with the modern environment, and then if you secondarily agree that, look, it's going to take some time to change the environment to a satisfactory level that really sort of reverses course here, it's going to take some years. So then you're like, well, I guess our actual target is genetics. And then we somehow identify this genetic target, and we can, you know, create a treatment that directly does that one-time dose, gene editing, CRISPR, whatever. And it does actually change their genes. And now they are well-matched for the current environment. And that's the treatment for obesity. You're cool with that. And further, what does that Venn diagram look like between the COVID vaccine modifies your DNA versus root cause treatment of obesity modifies your DNA? Like, how does that square? With the technology that we have, I mean, identifying, like, to the way that you've described folks as being kind of more obesity-sensitive or obesity-resistant in the context of the modern environment, what are the variables that are most predictive of a, quote-unquote, obesity-resistant phenotype? What do the genetics look like of somebody who is, quote-unquote, naturally lean? And then is there a gene therapy that you want to try to institute to folks who struggle to kind of make them more obesity-resistant? I'm not even advocating for this because it's just like a whole minefield of a complex topic in terms of, you know, editing people's genetics. And at what point in life do you do that? And what are the implications? And things like that. But that's kind of the phenomenon that you're getting at here. Yeah. I don't know. I think it'd be cool, like, great, if possible, you know, that would be an interesting option for folks. But, yeah, TBD. I just find the argument that you shouldn't use GLP-1s because when you come off them, you're going to regain the weight. And it's like, that's like saying you shouldn't exercise because when you stop doing it, you're going to, you know, lose the muscle mass or whatever. It's like, yeah, maybe there's a more durable effect of exercise longer term than GLP-1s. Sure. But for a dietary pattern, it's like saying you can only eat healthy for the next year to lose the weight. And then after that, you have to stop because we don't want you to have to keep doing it. It means you have to keep persistently doing something. Yeah. Yeah. To spite all the other. Yeah. Yeah. It's nonsense. All right. Austin, any closing thoughts on losing weight rapidly versus slowly for metabolic health, long-term health trajectory, and maybe how you contrast that with active individuals, athletes who are looking to be a little leaner but not necessarily for a health purpose. Yeah. I think it's a good topic. I think you did a good job kind of surveying the evidence and this whole episode, including starting from the very beginning with the mystery case, serves to lay out and describe a fair amount of the potential pros and the potential cons of doing this, just like any intervention has potential benefits of potential downsides. And so then our job, whether as people considering these paths before us or as clinicians guiding folks through it, is helping them weigh those potential benefits and downsides on an individual basis. So somebody who is at extremely high risk of cardiometabolic complications, yeah, I might favor a little bit more rapid if I can, notwithstanding this maybe risk of a little peroneal neuropathy that is likely to be either not noticed or transient or something like that. But for somebody who values high-level performance, then the calculus changes a little bit there. And so these decisions should be made individually. And if you have a clinician that you're working with, then you have that level of supervision to have these kind of conversations of what does this look like. And, of course, this is all underscored by our unsurprising recommendation that anytime you're losing weight, you ought to be strength training to do your best to maintain the lean body mass and the muscle mass along the way. Agreed. Yeah, just some more clinical logic that you're spouting here. If the benefits...  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo forum on our amas or whatever we frequently get questions about should i follow a protein sparing modified fast should i do this other rapid weight loss uh protocol and i'm like look you're not an individual with obesity to a level that is compromising your health and you are apparently concerned with performance how do i know that because you're on the barbell medicine forum otherwise how did you make it here so it seems like that's probably not the move for lean mass preservation for strength development and overall like while the adherence may not be different long term i do have concerns about rebound particularly that collateral fattening situation afterwards yeah yeah that's where why there are criteria for patient selection for various interventions now these are not hard rules written in stone no matter what like i've certainly prescribed and done things kind of quote unquote off label from time to time but why for example you see criteria for glp1s in general say bmi over 30 bmi over 27 with a comorbidity as just like here it's just on like general patient screening guidelines now have i initiated one of these medicines in a patient who did not meet these criteria for sure i have but there were specific reasons justifications and based on the conversation and the clinical assessment came to the conclusion that hey the potential benefits of this medicine outweigh the potential downsides for example one recent use had to do with a patient who had a history of like pretty significant like binge eating disorder and despite their best efforts this was a constant daily struggle that they were dealing with yet through daily heroic efforts they were actually managing to maintain a bmi below 27 and so they would you know unfortunately insurance is like now your bmi looks great this person's every day is like an absolute struggle to deal with you know that concept of like food noise and craving compulsions and things like that i'm like yeah seems to me like you stand to potentially benefit from this it's likely to remain a low dose to try to control that kind of give you a sense of control i'm not going to crank this up to max dose and aim for massive weight loss but that's not the aim of this intervention in your situation right similar with metabolic bariatric surgery there are criteria for the type of person who undergoes it we would not generally be doing metabolic bariatric surgery on somebody who's bmi's 25 or something like that you don't see scenarios where somebody gets that surgery and then it's like oh they're losing way too much weight uh we end up needing to put them on you know iv nutrition afterwards to keep their weight up or something like that it's like if that's the case i had questions maybe about the initial patient selection criteria maybe about the way that the surgery was performed uh the way it was set up led to you know over dramatic weight loss maybe they need a surgical revision things like that to like back that off etc so you need skilled clinicians doing this kind of patient selection and then guiding through that process of potential benefits potential downsides are we meeting traditional criteria are we going off label or are you just like not a great candidate for this and why and what are our alternatives instead yeah perhaps the diy use and pill mill situation uh would be not ideal yeah totally all right well that is a wrap on the barbell medicine podcast special shout out to dr austin baracki for joining us on this mystery case if you liked this episode or other episodes please leave us a five-star rating and a review it really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness for everyone here at barbell medicine i'm dr jordan feigenbaum we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the barbell medicine podcast you

=== FILE: The New York Times Gets Low Back Pain Wrong (Again) [2vuZA-s5hPA].txt ===

! Yeah, I bet it's a large number of people who saw whatever this is about to be. So here's the first line from this newsletter that is also published on their website. And I quote, as I write this, I'm wearing a large heating pad on my back like a cape. Why? Because when I parked my car at the grocery store, I made the mistake of twisting around to grab shopping bags from the back seat. It goes on about how she has this author's had low back pain. And then she says, so I thought it might be helpful to focus on how to prevent back pain in the first place. And I've asked orthopedic doctors for their best tips. Now, Dr. Baraki, you are very, very familiar with the literature on low back pain. You have treated a lot of individuals with low back pain. You have worked through low back pain on your own. I would go so far as to call you a subject matter expert on low back pain. Now, if you had a question about low back pain, orthopedic doctor is your first pick? Generally not. You know, this is not intended to throw shade at orthopedists out there, like by and large. No, no hate comms. Yeah. Right. They're generally quite good at what they do, meaning the skill set that they are trained for, which involves slicing and dicing to improve, you know, pathologies of various, you know, orthopedic structures and joints. Joint replacements, for example. I would 100% entrust their well-trained orthopedist, you know, there are also even further subspecialties out of orthopedics who I would trust with their, you know, realms of expertise, be it ortho-oncology or hand surgeons or various other niches. But back pain, by and large, is a non-surgical problem. And so going straight to a surgeon for, you know, opinions on this, it's not to say that they're unreliable for this, but just that there's going to be a little bit more variation in the quality of advice that you're going to get from someone who might, you know, spend most of their day operating on patients for a problem that, by and large, does not require surgery. There are certainly situations with respect to back pain that do require surgical intervention, sometimes purely, you know, orthopedic-related issues, be it spinal fractures, certain disc herniated, herniation-type situations that do benefit from surgery, definitely like, you know, other forms of cancers and other infections and things like that that can get into the spine. But common low back pain, which is what this article author is speaking on, is not something that really needs an orthopedic surgeon to be involved at all in their evaluation or management. And so, you know, you run the risk of something that is very commonly seen when going to specialists in a given area is you end up getting commentary, ideas, advice that are subject to their own selection bias. And so this is, for example, where, you know, in recent years, as pickleball has gotten much more popular, you started to see all these articles about how injurious pickleball is. And it's like, you know, they're interviewing people who see people with injuries, not all the people who are out there doing great and improving their health and function and feeling well and, you know, various things like that, right? If you go to an ER doctor and you're like, can you tell me your opinion on fireworks? And it's like, they are people who only see the really bad stuff that happens when things go wrong with fireworks, right? So there are certainly many of them who have that insight into what is the selection of my population and try to, like, consciously counter that bias with, like, bigger data sets than just their own experience. But I think that's hard to do for a lot of clinicians and is not the default setting. A lot of times when you go to clinicians, they're going to tell you what they know based on – especially the further out they get from formal training. You're going to get less and less evidence-based and more and more experience-based, which is just unfortunately the way it is unless they go out of their way to stay up to date on evidence and things like that. Yeah, yeah. I mean I don't think that this particular author is like an investigative journalist, although I would – I would want that. And then I would want them to think about this, say, okay, look, if I'm trying to write this thing about low back pain, who would I ask? And you could say, well, maybe asking a surgeon. Sure. You know, an orthopedic surgeon, neurosurgeon, something like that. Maybe I should ask a physical therapist. Sure. And maybe I should ask maybe like a clinician researcher, like hybrid that is actively involved in low back pain research. Like to me, that would be like the three horsemen. Like great. Sure. Yeah. You know? But it's kind of like Fox News the other day asked like Texas mom about high fructose corn syrup and cane sugar. It's like, wait, how did you arrive? Like these are the experts? Anyway. Yeah. So that's my first gripe. But like, okay, let's suspend disbelief. Maybe this is a great thing. We're just, this is actually a positive quack watch. Sure. Dr. Arthur L. Jenkins, the third great name, by the way. Yeah. The neurosurgeon in New York City who specializes in spinal surgery, to your point. He says to avoid bending, lifting, and twisting. The BLT, as he calls it. This maximizes the stress on the disc, making it more likely to rupture. As a spine surgeon, I would never do it. And you know that a phrase, look, the guy came up with BLT. Pretty catchy. Right? Pretty quippy. That's been said a lot to patients. Hey, don't, BLT, you got to avoid it. I, as a neurosurgeon, would never do it. Completely ignoring the fact that as you interact with the environment around you, you most certainly will have to bend, lift, and twist. Not only separately, but also at the same time. Can you imagine trying to go about your daily life without ever bending, lifting, and twisting at the same time? Yeah. I mean, I imagine this neurosurgeon just goes about his day like living in a very tight corset that allows him to do none of those things with his thorax. And he just remains rigidly upright and doesn't move. He actually has a series of assistants who carries him around. So it's just like from room to room and like, hey, do this thing. Yes. When lifting an object, make sure both feet are planted and your weight is evenly distributed. Then lift from your legs instead of your arms and back, said spine surgeon at the hospital for special surgery in Manhattan. So there's a second surgeon. I suppose that's not terrible advice. Like you, I guess, in order to produce force against the ground, your feet would have to be on the ground. So that is a physics lesson that we all needed in this newsletter. I don't know about your weight being evenly distributed because like what if picking up something or interacting with the environment forces you into a posture that your weight isn't 100% balanced over your midfoot? Yeah, I mean, I think if we wanted to be maximally charitable to this guy, that if he is advising against, you know, high effort lifting in very awkward positions to which you are unaccustomed. Yeah, there may be some risk of some discomfort associated with that because you are unaccustomed to that sort of thing. But if you went in the other direction and you said that anytime somebody does follow that advice, right, that they are not going to experience back pain, well, that our rehab team would argue otherwise. Because we have lots of folks who, you know, have gone about their lifting careers following what would be considered kind of best advice for like deadlift training. For example, their feet are planted on the ground. They have the symmetric setup. The bar, the load is as close to their, you know, shins as you can get it, trying to maintain your center of mass and everything all aligned and following that. And sometimes people still develop back discomfort. And so I think that there are variables that can be manipulated to, you know, that may contribute to an increased risk of back discomfort or that may lower that risk. I think that our advice historically has typically been in the realm of prepare for the thing you're trying to do and try to be prepared for those kind of things, whether in the gym or in day-to-day life. Like exposure is worthwhile and don't try to bite off more than you can chew in a lot of these situations. And beyond that, if you're still well-prepared for something and you still develop some backache, sometimes things just happen. And these things are not always 100% within our control. And sometimes even people who never do any of these things, be it bending or lifting or twisting, or don't at least recall an incident with one of those activities, they still develop potentially very debilitating back pain. And so, you know, I think that there is like a charitable way to interpret this, but at the same time, it's not the way that we typically try to communicate around these topics to patients because it tends to generate relatively deeply seated kind of hypervigilance around movement. And we're trying not to, you know, ideally you go about your life not really having to think about every, you know, postural detail or something like that, right? Constantly 24-7, that's not realistic in the same way that you should ideally not have to think about, you know, every calorie that is either entering your mouth or being expended by your body. Like ideally we can set up your daily habits, your dietary pattern, your food environment, so that you don't need that constant hypervigilance to everything. Kind of a similar concept when it applies to movement. And so these types of pieces of advice I think are not as helpful as I think that this physician suspected it would be when he provided the quote. Yeah. The third surgeon is Dr. Patel. He's a spine surgeon at Northwestern Medicine. He often sees patients, quote, running into trouble with activities such as pickleball, paddle tennis, and golf. There it is. He says flexibility is key. So build in a warm-up and stretching routine. For example, with golf, add a low back and chest stretch every three holes. As an avid golfer, no. That's the dumbest thing I've heard. Like one, this presupposes that doing regular, we'll call it flexibility exercise, just, you know, some sort of guided, you know, flexibility training reduces the incidence of low back pain, which is not the case. And, in fact, when people get a little overzealous with stretching, it may actually cause more symptomology. But on the course, if I was playing with a person and every three holes they went through this whole routine, I'd be like, dude, what are you doing? Yeah. Like this is ridiculous. They further say don't overload your carry-on bag. That's not a motion that most people do every day. So be mindful not to overload your luggage. I personally never take a carry-on bag on planes anymore. Wow. That's remarkable. Instead of, like, maybe get strong enough to where handling a carry-on is a trivially easy task for you, just never move anything overhead. This is like the doctor advice, like, hey, if that hurts, never do it. Ever. Ever. Yeah. Whereas we come back from a different perspective. It's like, look, I want you to have, to the extent it's possible, unrestricted movement. You can do whatever you want. Unfettered access to the entire cornucopia of the movement library that so far exists in human history. I want you to be ready and be able to do all of that. Fit for duty. Yeah. I want you to be 70, 80-plus years old and still able to lift your carry-on into the overhead bin with no issues and no assistance from anyone else. Have a carry-on. Be able to travel. Yes. And then, two, be able to lift in the overhead luggage. Yeah. And then, finally, and you knew this was coming, steer-clear sit-ups. They may put a lot of stress on the discs of your spine. Core-strengthening exercises, such as planks, Pilates, swimming, and yoga, and also the elliptical machine, are a lot healthier for your back in general. We're personifying the back. And back health, spine health. I mean, this is like a low back pain nocebo bingo card. You got like reductionism to just a disc injury despite most of the low back pain not being related to a disc. You've got this biomedical model where, oh, there has to be an injury to the disc, the ligament, something. And that's what caused the pain, which, again, most low back pain is specifically not. Nothing about doing more movements to like prepare yourself for things that you might face. But instead, just avoid more things. And then disc, disc, disc, disc, disc. And it's like people already, even if they're not in the fitness space and even if – or even if they've been exposed to some of our material or material like ours, you hear disc, disc injury, disc rupture. It still kind of triggers this like – Totally. It's scary. Don't want that. Yeah. And you got all of them here. Yeah. I mean, this is – you could mad lib this as Dr. Miles likes to do and fit in running and your knees. It could be tennis and your elbows or your shoulder. And it's like, yep, all of those sports that deliver a particular stress, a little bit more biased towards a particular body area, people may be more susceptible to discomfort or overuse syndromes in that area. But the solution is not to just withdraw from that activity forever because it has the potential to contribute to some pain experience, but rather it's like be mindful of the dosage, be mindful of your tolerance, your capacity. And if something crops up, here are the tools that you can use to self-manage and get better through that, which is what we aim to – the messaging that we aim to put out there instead of just never do this thing because the solution there is just withdraw from all activity because all activity delivers some sort of physiologic mechanical stress to the body somewhere. And it's like, well, if that dose is off, you might get some pain. And that's certainly a good way to avoid maybe the spine surgeon's operating table for a discectomy, but it's also a great way to end up in the primary care office or the ER with a complication of cardiovascular disease because you develop metabolic syndrome from not moving for a large portion of your life out of fear. Yeah. I guess my question to you is now this is – it is theoretically answerable if the data set existed, but I've been actively looking for something like this, and there's just not a lot of data on this. But my speculation here is that if you took two groups of just twins, identical twins, and you split them right down the middle, one group of twins on one side, one group of identical twins on the other side, the one group of identical twins, they do not exercise. They don't lift weights or whatever, any of that. And the other group, well, they are resistance training. They're exercising, whatever. And you compared low back pain incidents in both groups. Yeah. I actually think they'd be pretty similar. The only study that exists like this is mostly on with cardio only where the one cardio group was doing like six hours a week of conditioning. The other group remained insufficiently active, and the number of injuries, including low back pain, was the same between both groups. And so it's like I don't know actually that avoiding these things reduces your risk of low back pain. And I think, in fact, if you're avoiding all of these things, to include exercise that would directly stress your low back in any sort of way, it actually just leaves you undertrained and maybe more vulnerable. Not to say that you need to be like have the super robust sort of strength and muscle mass or whatever in order to prevent low back pain. But at least it prepares you for the movement more than sitting on the couch. Yeah. It may just be tradeoffs and shifting risks around. Instead of developing an overuse syndrome from maybe lifting a little bit more than you're ready for too much too soon, it leaves you undertrained and underdeveloped so that turning around to grab something out of the backseat of your car is too much too soon. And so you end up ultimately in a similar place. Yeah. If New York Times contacted me and they say, hey, you want to review this just for like accuracy or whatever, I'd be like, yeah, so I think this is mostly harmful, net negative. It does not provide a lot of actionable advice for folks that would actually make them healthier. Instead, maybe we should do some stuff on pain education, like what it actually means to have low back pain. What it doesn't mean is probably not a disc injury most of the time unless you have these certain signs. And then in which case, yeah, it's okay to be concerned and be evaluated. Let's introduce maybe the biopsychosocial model. Let's talk about exercise, like what you can do, find an entry point, all sorts of stuff. But yeah, no, none of that. Let's just – you know what? Let's just talk about not lifting – not having luggage. Never BLT. Great sandwich, by the way. And yeah, if you're going to blast this out to like a million subscribers, I think you have the responsibility to do a good job. Yeah, here's an interesting kind of corollary to this. If we were to translate this into a different clinical setting. Instead of talking to a spine surgeon about back pain, for example, let's say you went to an obesity medicine physician about their best tips to manage or avoid developing obesity. The analog of I just don't carry a carry-on is, yeah, so I just don't eat. I just don't eat. Yeah. That's the analog of this advice. The way that I avoid gaining weight is I actually don't take in any energy, and it's pretty foolproof. There you go. Yeah, just don't eat. Eat less, move more. Thanks, New York Times. You bet. Yeah. All right. We'll be right back.

=== FILE: The Rundown #3 (Bionic knees, Raycin beats the boys, feats of strength, and more!) [Humad29wEUs].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbela Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and this is the third edition of The Rundown, where we catch you up on latest news and health and fitness, also science, technology, sports, and politics. On the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, doing well. Continuing to settle into the new place, got some productive training in this week. These are feeling good, so I assume you're feeling poorly, but I'll take it. Yeah, look, it's time. It's the balance of power. Now, I feel fine. You're doing good. Yeah, so far, knock on wood. I'm not superstitious. I'm just a little stitious. Oh, I'm excited for this episode. Got a lot of cool stuff. Some new bionic knee parts. We've got some politics to do with RFK Junior. We've got some impressive feats of strength that we'll probably trigger some folks. Hopefully. Let's do it. Yeah, before we get into that, a few announcements. Big news this week. We are having a coaching sale now. If you've been a Barbo Medicine follower, you are familiar with our stuff. You know this never happens. We literally do only once a year over Black Friday, Cyber Monday. So in November, we're doing one here in the summer. It starts August 11th, and it goes till August 18th. It applies to all new coaching packages, so that's for both Health and Performance and Painter Rehab. You get 10% off. You can use the code SUMMERFIT to check out directly off the website, or you can email us support at barbomedicine.com. We can get you set up. Again, it's 10% off all new coaching packages, and we never do this. If you're on the fence about coaching, now's the time. Also, we did just release our second generation of our low fatigue template. This has four new programs. It previously was powerlifting only, strength only, and now we have powerlifting, powerbuilding, and a general strengthening program. You get four programs. They're all 16 weeks long. The program has been revised. It's now more adaptive to the individual to make sure that they get the correct training load. The conditioning work has also been massively overhauled, and we've expanded the e-book that accompanies the program. So it used to be about 80 something pages. Now it's over 110 pages, and we discuss hypertrophy, conditioning, programming, design, troubleshooting, and more. We're looking for a book on how to program. That's what we have right now. And last but not least, we do still have our upcoming seminar in San Antonio. It's a health and performance seminar with myself, Dr. Baraki, Leah Lutz, Tom Campatelli. We'll be at Sal's Gym in San Antonio. We'll be training together on Friday, and I believe there's a barbecue on Saturday. I think I just got that email. So we're just trying to spend some more time with you guys. Tickets are going fairly quickly, so that's linked in the show notes below. We'd love to see you there. Two-day in-person seminar, San Antonio, catch the fever. I suppose. Maybe don't catch a fever. Maybe don't catch a real fever. I'm using that in jest. All right. We're going to start off this third episode of the rundown with a bionic knee. I don't know. Did you see this at all? I did not educate me. All right. So this just came out of MIT. These researchers have developed a new bionic knee that can help people with above the knee amputations walk faster, climb stairs, and navigate obstacles better than they could do with their traditional prosthesis. Now, in the link that I've put in the show notes below, there's actually a pretty cool embedded GIF where it's a person with a full-on prosthetic. It doesn't look like any prosthetic I think most people have ever seen because it kind of looks like, for lack of a better description, imagine what Terminator T2's leg looked like. It looks cool. And this person is dodging obstacles on a treadmill. Wow. Yeah, which is super impressive. So with traditional amputation, whether it's below the knee or above the knee, the opposing muscles that take turns stretching, relaxing, contracting are usually severed. So the agonist-antagonist relationship is disrupted. Makes it very difficult for the brain and the nervous system to sense the position of the muscles, how fast they're moving, and subsequently smooth it out for better coordination. It's just really hard to do. Now, a new surgical approach is called this agonist-antagonist myoneural interface, AMI, basically connects agonist and antagonist muscles back together in what's left of the limb. Previously, this was only done in below the knee, and now they're doing it above the knee. And this research group added this kind of robotic controller. So basically, they put a titanium rod in the femur, and it has 16 wires that go to sensors in the muscles of the leg. They're still there. And this robot basically integrates all this information and calculates the torque and forces necessary to move the prosthesis the way the user wants it to move. Now, look, that's all above our pay grade. Totally. But when I saw this video, it's one of those things like seeing is believing, right? I'm like, okay, look at the date. Now, I link the paper from Science. They talk about this, and it's linked to other papers, so you can really go down the rabbit hole if you want. But watch the video. I mean, pretty impressive stuff, especially from what I've seen from people with this type of prosthesis before. So I can only imagine the cost of what this is right now. But some time from now, just like all technology, it's probably going to become more accessible, at least I hope. So I don't know. Did you click on the link? Did you? Hey, quickquat. Hey, quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. Quickquat. to even wrap my mind around how people are able to figure this out and make it work even to this level of accuracy and precision. It's obviously not so smoothly coordinated that to the point where you're like, oh, I can barely even tell that that's not a human limb. There's obviously still some kind of like clunkiness about it that I imagine would improve with time, refining the technology, the human themselves getting used to this thing. And I wouldn't be surprised if they try to bake in some sort of like AI based functionality into these little robots to better integrate these systems. So yeah, I'm with you. I think this is really remarkable. It bodes well for the future of, you know, I guess physical medicine and rehabilitation for these kinds of things in the future, both due to traumatic reasons and really all of the different types of medical reasons why people might undergo these types of procedures to try to maintain as much functionality as possible over time. It does remind me of not exactly the same thing, but another area that I'm kind of currently aware of in the rehabilitation space where people are also integrating kind of AI based kind of rehab coaches into like home exercise devices to try to improve both adherence to these home exercise programs, but also outcomes. So like a gamification of like the rehab exercises being like kind of autonomously coached by the AI tool to get people putting out more force or power output or whatever the case is because doing that from the standpoint of a rehab professional, a person who maybe needs to come to your house and guide you through this is time consuming and expensive. And so these sorts of things can also facilitate potentially better outcomes at a lower cost. This bionic knee thing I don't imagine is currently at a lower cost to your point. It'll probably come down over time. The only, I guess concern that I can think of at the moment is just from the medical side of things, complications of this sort of thing. I see a fair amount of periprocedural complications or complications of technology and devices and implants and things like that in the patients that I work with. And then also this technology just looks so damn complex that I suspect it's gonna break in unforeseeable ways and the kind of repair, maintenance long term. Is this something that you can live and function with for like decades? What's that gonna even look like? Obviously it's just so early that nobody will have an answer to that, but those are some of the things I'm thinking about moving forward. Clearly you're overlooking two of the most likely doomsday scenarios. One actually is in a doomsday scenario, it's just more would be more interesting I think socially. Okay, but the first one, what if aliens are able to overtake these things or AI gains, you know, autonomous function. You have an autonomously functioning limb that takes over the human host. That's what I'm saying, yes. And then it like, you know, makes you ambulate towards the center and now you're like, oh no, I can't stop. Obviously that's terrifying. Second thing is maybe a little more interesting, perhaps even more likely. You familiar with what was Oscar Pistorius? Yes. Like Blade Runner? Yeah. Couldn't compete in the Olympics, right? That was the whole thing. What if this stuff gets so good, so good that whether it's a below the amputation, above the amputation, or even like, something congenital, they get this precious, it's so good that they can kick a soccer ball way faster than anybody. Or like, you know, I don't know. At that point it's like, so is this like performance enhancing equipment? That's just, I don't know. Like I've had some mixed feelings when the Pistorius case was brought before the Court for Arbitration and Sport for the IOC, so I don't know. Kind of interesting anyway. Yeah, and I think the, you know, for this sort of bionic knee slash lower extremity, there is probably any known or measurable, like maximum force production capacity of these units. And once that force capacity exceeds that of what humans are capable of, then you'll know where it like, you know, exoskeletal athlete era. Yeah, yeah, upgrades. Trying to get my upgrades, bro. Nice. All right, next thing here on the rundown. Now look, as a person who's been involved in motorcycles and specifically motocross for decades now, you knew at some point. This is gonna be. They had to come up. Yeah, well look, this made national news. So it's not just my own like pet interest. This made national news, it was on ESPN, NBC, I know reported on this, et cetera. So this past week marked the 44th running of the American Motorcycle Association, the AMAs Amateur National Motor Cross Championship. It's held every year at Loretolins Ranch just outside of Nashville, Tennessee. I actually went there, competed in 2003. I didn't do very well, but just making it there was cool with my dad. Yeah, memories and such. The biggest amateur race in the world, it's Uber competitive, very, very competitive. So just making it to the ranch is a big deal, let alone winning. Oh boy, kind of set yourself up for not only support as far as from teams and stuff like that, but actually just to make it. So they have classes separated based on age. There's age group classes, also skill. So there's like a pro division, intermediate division, et cetera, et cetera, and displacement of the motor. So same thing for most motor sports. However, there are only two classes dedicated to women. There's an open women's class, and then there's a girls class, 11 to 16 years old. So not terribly well represented, but there's still an opportunity to compete. Do you know when those women's classes were established? I know that both of those classes were there when I was there. Oh really, okay. So I can't say that I've ever even seen like a women's motocross race like on TV in the same way that I might see men's races. I don't know what your thoughts are on any of that. Yeah, we'll get to that. Okay. So what history was made this year, however, when 11 year old, race in Kyler, she's out of Florida, beat all of the boys in the 65 CC, 10 to 11 years old class. So 65 CC is the size of the motor. There's a little mini bike, but it does have a clutch, and you have to shift it and everything else. These people fly on these things. Actually, I realized that now as a vet rider, I think I'm going pretty well. I was fairly competitive back in the day, and I think I'm doing the jumps and out there for a while. And then one of these little rippers just goes past me and I'm like, oh boy, I got to hang it up. In any case, this has never happened before. Never happened before. And it's not that people haven't tried. There have been girls that have made the open division and done well, and women who've done it in some of the older age division classes, but they've never won. Which brings me to my question. One, let's celebrate race in Kyler. If your name's race in, pfft, you got it. You were literally, you were born for this. But two, why has this never happened before? Especially in these age groups, these prepubescent age groups, we know that up until the age of around 10, girls and boys have similar bodies. Yeah, girls are a little taller even. They do have a little more body fat at that age, but most athletic traits are nearly indistinguishable in boys and girls at that age, except for throwing. But for example, like top running speed is almost identical, VO2 max stuff, all basically the same until puberty. Right, at that point, things take off. And most of that is due to this S-R-Y gene. This is basically the sex determining region wise, what it stands for. If there was an athlete gene, athletic gene, it would be the S-R-Y gene. It's all in the Y chromosome. Boys have an X-Y, generally speaking. Women, XX. But we all begin life as females. For like our first six weeks in utero, we're all effectively female. At week six, yeah. If you get exposed to testosterone, a lot of it in utero, the S-R-Y gene signals a bunch of other stuff, get testicles that form and inside them the late excels that ultimately produce testosterone. And so yeah, that's kind of how we differentiate between boys and girls in the womb. So we know that boys, even before puberty, are better at throwing. That's pretty well established. There's like three standard deviations apart from boys and girls. Like the beginning of when they can throw, even through puberty and beyond. Obviously a woman, girl who is trained in throwing is gonna be better than an untrained man, but that's not really what we're talking about here. All else being equal, boys tend to throw further. There's also, I didn't know this, some evidence showing that boys are better at visually tracking and targeting things. And so I do wonder, is there something about boys that makes them better at motocross than women? Or is this just an artifact of the opportunity to participate, just like a social determinant of competitiveness or something like that? Yeah, these things are super messy and difficult to pull apart. I think that's part of why I asked the question earlier because we've looked at, for example, other sports, like when they were established, we've talked before about when weightlifting was established for men versus women in the Olympics was hugely separated in time. Do you remember those years off the top of your head? Yeah, yeah, so if you're listening to this, I'll pose it to the audience. So just right now on your own head, hey, quick question, when was, when did women's Olympic weightlifting make it into the Olympics? I'll pause. If you said the year 2000, you'd be right. If you said any time before that, despite men being in multiple, I mean, we're talking about way back in Olympic history for men to have this opportunity to participate in the Olympics. It wasn't even until 2000. Yeah, with women's motor, just to answer your questions, I think this will be useful for your answer. Women's professional motocross has been very small and under supported and there's been less opportunity for women to participate at that level. That said, there's also not a lot of women who otherwise would participate. So this is a chicken egg thing, I don't know. That's obviously more complicated, but growing up in motocross, you go into a lot of the national races, you see a fairly, what I would consider, strong contingent of women, particularly, or mostly girls, right? And then it's kind of up until high school age and then it really starts to fall off. Again, I don't know if that's because there's really nowhere for them to go, like class wise to participate outside of like at the national level and at that point, that's a different game than competing locally where it's like, oh, I showed up my local track and there was these other girls that I race against, they all quit, or didn't exist in the first place. So I don't know if this is like an artifact of social determinants, like participation, opportunity, or if there's like some like male aggressiveness or like visual track, I don't know. To some extent, it feels like some of these things might feed into one another. As far as the social opportunities to participate, it feels like there's multiple levels to that. For example, is there a league where you can go and do this at all? But then there's also, I suspect that this varies regionally across the country, some places that are much more into motor sports like where you hail from, and other places in the country where that's way less of a thing, and other sports and activities might tend to predominate. And then lastly, there's probably some degree of, it's almost like this bio and social interaction here of like these, to the extent that these biological characteristics or traits impact the, you know, performance potential of someone in these sports, that itself might impact the demand for this for a given demographic, right? So if there is some sort of advantage for the boys or disadvantage for the girls, that would then impact how much of a demand is there for women's motocross and then how likely is there based on that demand for someone to establish a league where they can come and compete. So these things all to some extent seem like they might feed into one another until you reach some just like overall critical mass of recognition of the sport or interest in the sport where it's like, hey, we got enough people who would actually bother to do this and then from there it might snowball into a much bigger thing. I suspect that that's the case for a lot of different sports. You need some like critical mass of just like potentially interested participants before somebody even bothers to set up a competitive arena for them. To create the incentives that otherwise would drive further development. Like there's no like the path from like five year old girl motocross, you know, enthusiast to pro is not well established, right? It's just like tough to do. Yeah, I don't know. I, you know, what's interesting to me about motocross is that when you see the top level performers, you know, in the pro ranks, generally speaking, there's somewhere between like 20 and 25, you start getting a little older than that. People are like, when are you retiring? Which seems weird to say to like a 26, 27 year old, but if you're 30 and you're still racing, you are definitively an elder statesman. You're that class pretty much. But the best performers aren't like big hulking, you know, super strong. They're strong cause they're 24 year old dudes, you know? But it's not like, oh, gaining 10 pounds of muscle mass is gonna make you better on the bike. It's mostly skill related. Ensure the cardio respiratory demands, the VO2 max crimes are relatively high, but mostly skill. It's very similar to swimming in that like a good swimmer, like an elite level swimmer had been retired and their VO2 max is in the tank, it's still gonna be like the triathlete. Totally. Not a good swimmer, but has a crazy high VO2 max. So I do, I just wonder, I'm like, it's not a strength thing. I think the cardio respiratory requirements can be developed by women. So I'm trying to think like, is this like, again, I go back to aggressiveness, visual tracking, I don't know. But it also, it seems to me right now, like the biggest driver, this has to just be opportunity and like in general interest. And so it's like, look, well, not that many girls do this, there's not gonna be many girls doing this. And so just the sample size is too low to get something like this. That's why this is so dang historic. Good job racing. Yeah, super, super interesting kind of concept. And then even to look at a different sport that has, I would say developed and maybe even arguably peaked and gone into decline on a shorter timeframe is CrossFit. So like you think about the level of performance that was being put up by all the athletes in general and certainly men versus women, like at the first ever CrossFit games. And you contrast that to where people are now, where like Lorraine, my wife still pays attention to their CrossFit games, just out of interest. And they just happened this past week. Oh, we're gonna talk about it. And yeah, and Tia Claire wins and they're interviewing her and they're like talking to her about her training. And she's like, yeah, I just do what the boys do and then aim for a little bit more. And it's like, well, you have selected yourself into like an ultra elite category. And that's why you keep winning year after year and no one else is even close to you. But the sport had to attract enough people to even get in before you can start to identify those folks who maybe have certain levels, traits or talents or biological gifts, if you wanna think of it that way, to let them to rise to the top. Otherwise they'll never come to attention and no one will ever know any different. Yeah, I'll be very curious to see what happens with this particular athlete's career. So now after she wins. Ooh, she has identified herself. Yeah, like how do you do next year? Cause there's another class, the next one age up is another displacement size up. And like, does she keep doing this well? And if so, that would be remarkable. And maybe that does pave the path. I don't know, be curious. Yep. We'll see. All right, back here on the rundown, third episode, we're gonna talk about impressive feats of strength. Got three of them here. First off, we'll start with Thor's deadlift. You see this? I did. 505 kilogram deadlift, that's 1,113 pounds. You do not need to adjust to your headset. That is 1,113 pounds, breaking his previous record of 1,104 pounds that he set five years ago back in 2020. Crazy. Now, just before we discuss this, the equipment that he used, this is important for the comparison I'm gonna ask you about. He had a double ply deadlift suit. Now, if you're not familiar with powerlifting, what a deadlift suit is, what is double ply, you're like toilet paper, doesn't make any sense. I agree, look, equipped powerlifting is where you get to use assisted equipment. So like a squat suit, for example, stores mechanical energy as you descend knee wraps, do the same thing, store mechanical energy as you load the actual material. And then as you go down in a squat, for example, and then on the way up, it helps you with more weight. It's a completely different experience. It's like almost a completely different sport, except for you're still using a barbell. But in any case, the double ply deadlift suit is two layers of material, that's why they call it double ply. And I can't speak to how it works because I don't know. And I don't know that anybody really knows. In a squat, you tend to get more out of the suits than you do in a deadlift, but I assume there's some sort of assistance, otherwise they wouldn't use it. It's also using figure eight straps, so wrist straps. Listeners may be more familiar with a regular wrist strap that you use to wrap around a dumbbell or a barbell. Figure eight straps are usually a little bit longer, more robust, that tends to set the bar a little bit lower in your hand. So again, this is important for comparison purposes. He's using a Texas deadlift bar, which I appreciated that they used that and not the rogue elephant bar, which is like... Extra long and thin to make it bendier. Yeah, the reason why the type of barbell matters, one, if it's a deadlift bar, which you can generally identify by lack of a center knurling, it also is a thinner diameter. A regular power bar is 29 millimeters in diameter. A deadlift bar is 27 millimeters in diameter. They also are a little bit longer. And so it makes the bar deflect more or bend more before the plates leave the floor, which for some individuals, that makes them be able to lift more weight. I don't get a lot out of a deadlift bar, meaning that my regular deadlift with a stiff power bar is about the same as my deadlift bar deadlift, but some people get a lot out of them, especially with straps. But he did use calibrated plates, which I also appreciated compared to Benny Magnuson 1008 or 1003 or whatever it was, which was no straps, no deadlift suit, but not calibrated plates. In any case, let's compare Thor's recent world record, 1,113 pound deadlift with straps, with a deadlift suit, with a deadlift bar, to Georgian power lifters, Timur Semkarzade. I definitely messed it up, I'm so sorry. Respect the effort. Respect the effort. But at the age of 24, he deadlifted 906 pounds in the IPF, the International Power Lifting Federation. So it's drug tested, no straps, stiff power lifting bars, 29 millimeters in diameter, two hour weigh in drug tested, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Oh, and by the way, that same day, he squatted 859 pounds and bench pressed 534 pounds for a 2,300 pound total. His total at 2,300 pounds was about 100 pounds less than Thor's total that he also did, and he weighed about 100 pounds less than Thor. So, who's more impressive, Dr. Baraki? Or Timur? The two of us opining on the relative impressiveness of these feats is kind of amusing to me. But I think you make the point there at the end that Timur's total was about 100 pounds less, weighing 100 pounds less under much stricter conditions. And so I think that that's kind of where I might lean. It's interesting to, I don't know, it's not even like a thought experiment, it's just like imagining or wondering if you put Thor under those same competitive conditions, circumstances, would he be able to put up those same numbers? I'm not sure, I don't know how much he can currently squat. I feel like all I've ever seen him do is in the powerlifting realm, I've seen lots of his deadlifts. I don't know off the top of my head like what his raw squat performance might be unassisted, unequipped in that type of a setting. I don't know if you have a sense of that. Yeah, he squatted, I believe, was 906 in knee wraps, but in a regular singlet when he did his total, which, but no way in, right? Sure, yeah. With the squat bar, it's different. It's just a different set of... Right, that's why I'm trying to come at it of if you put each of these guys in the other person's circumstance, how close could they get to that type of performance? And they'd probably be kind of close. I think Timur, though, weighing 100 pounds less to do it, he's probably also quite a bit different in height. I don't know what his height is off the top of my head either. But yeah, I currently lean towards the IPF competitive conditions as the thing that's more impressive to put up that total. But then again, all these things are just absolute wild feats of human strength. Yeah, all these numbers don't make sense. I know if you were listening to this and you're like, the numbers don't make sense because they're too heavy. I agree. These people are far too strong and it hurts my feelings personally. But with your thought experiment, it's like a bench racing kind of thing, like what if? I think if you put Thor in the IPF setting, he totals far less than his best total drug testing aside. Let's just leave that elephant in the room. We just won't talk about it. And then if you put Timur under the same circumstances as Thor, I don't know that he totals that much more. You know what I'm saying? Not being well trained in that, the technical things that change under equipped lifting and various other things that make it almost, people sometimes describe them as different sports and it might sound silly to say when it's like you're doing the same lifts, but there are significant technical differences between equipped and unequipped lifting and under these different types of competitive rules and circumstances that do make them a little bit more difficult to compare directly than it might initially seem. Yeah, I'll just say this. Obviously, both individuals super strong and I'm super impressed with all of these attempts. Yeah. Full props, no hate comments, full props. However, if instead of Thor breaking his own record, which was previously 501 kilos under, wearing a deadlift suit with straps, whatever, if he instead said, I'm gonna do something different. I'm gonna use a stiff bar. I'm gonna not use straps and I'm gonna do it raw. And he was able to deadlift 910 pounds. That way I'd be like, dude, you're the king. Yeah. You're the king of death. Yeah. And this is just a throwback. A lot of our listeners probably are unfamiliar with Konstantinov because he passed away a number of years ago, but he previously is on record saying that look, under IPF settings, stiff bar, calibrated plates, two hour way in the whole thing, drug testing aside, people can only deadlift 400 kilos. That's it, 880. And so we have an example, two couple examples, because Jesus also deadlifted more than that. I think it was 901. Again, these numbers don't make sense. You're just like, Jordan, what are you talking about? There's a lot of weight, I agree. So I'm super impressed, but I would have been more impressed with just what would be more relatable is a deadlift. Like, yeah, take the straps off, take the suit off. If you want to use a deadlift bar, fine, I guess, but I would prefer you on a stiff bar. Just see, I'd be curious. Yeah, it makes these kinds of comparisons easier. That's kind of the thing in sport in general. If somebody set a new swimming world record, but they were swimming in a pool of different length, and they weren't swimming in water, but some like substance that had different fluid properties, and I'm like, I don't know what that means. That's part of why in swimming, my background as opposed to your motocross, the whole supersuit era was such a thing, where all this rapid technological advancement happened in the early to mid 2000s, and people started wearing higher and higher tech suits, and they started to get concerned about how much buoyancy is this providing, and all of these records were getting smashed. And so then they got, for the most part, banned, and now we're under a much more strict set of circumstances, almost IPF-like circumstances and rules around what you can wear to race. And sure enough, humans continue to rise to the occasion, and just about all, if not all of the world records from that time, I think Rome 2009 was the last time that they were really allowed in competition. Most of those records are gone because people have just kept getting better and better, and ended up breaking them all anyway, even under the stricter circumstances. So that's kind of an interesting way to come at it, is these circumstances set the balance for kind of comparison and competition, and then within those...  abalusabounds, you just let the best rise to the top, and over time, people seem to keep finding ways to get better and better across all sorts of different sports, which is awesome to watch. Yeah, a lot of technological advancements across many different sports have been the principle, or at least even a minority contribution to people breaking records. I don't know that these are all technological advancements here, for Thor, and such, but we're just comparing two different efforts, and it's challenging to do, and so I prefer to make it the same. Yeah. But yeah, probably not in our lifetime. Yeah. All right, the second impressive feat of strength is by Russ Orhi. You sent this to me. I was made aware of it. It's crazy. So Russ Orhi just broke the 93-kilo world record for the raw powerlifting total and also the squat. So 93-kilo class is my weight class, our weight class. Well, your old weight class when you were still an adult man. 205 pounds, that's the max you can weigh. And while competing in the 2025 North American Powerlifting Federation Pan Am Championships, Russ, he competed in the 93-kilo class, was in Grand Cayman. He squatted 783 pounds. He bench-pressed 457 pounds, and he deadlifted 781 pounds. Again, these numbers don't make sense because they're too high. I agree. They're too high. His total was 2019 pounds while weighing 201 pounds body weight. So he has a 10x body weight total, which is like, that's powerlifting like legendhood. Like you've now achieved legendary status. You're one of the best. That's incredible. He's also 25 kilos better than the previous record holder, Jonathan Kaco. That record was set in 2023 at the World Championships. So my question to you is not just how impressive Russ is. He is impressive. But previously, he was an 83-kilo lifter, and his best total, despite competing for a number of years, was 100 pounds less. So is this just like mass moves mass? He moved up a weight class? Or what happened here? Yeah. I mean, I think that mass moves mass is arguably an oversimplification of an important concept, I think. The dude, if anybody's seen Russ or him, and you said his weight class at 205, but failed to mention his height. I believe he is like 5'7", maybe, or something like that. So he is a muscle ball. He's a nugget. He's a muscle nugget. I met him at a Barbell Brigade in LA in 2016. Now, the time he had not competed in powerlifting, but I see this dude with 5'85 on a bar, squatting, and he's doing sets of six. And I'm like, at that point, I'm still fully into powerlifting. I'm competing. We would be in the same weight class approximately. At that time, I'm like, oh my god. What a monster. Guys literally built different, as they say. Yeah, and I built differently, too, but incorrectly, comparatively. And I was like, if this dude ever competes, we're in trouble. Yeah. Like, we're collectively in trouble. It's like when a Jesse Norris signed up for Raw Nationals, we're like, I'm in danger. Right. Right. And so we've talked about this before. When it comes to strength performance, there's the neuromuscular skill coordination aspect, the ability to coordinate your body, muscles, contractions, bones, joints, everything in the right order and sequence to move the load or accomplish the task in as efficient of a way as possible. And then the other side is how much force production capacity do your muscles physically have and what leverages do they have on your joints? So things like your muscle attachment points and tendon lengths and all sorts of other things that we are more or less modifiable in order to improve our performance. And we know this has been researched a decent amount that if you just look at straight up the amount of muscle that someone carries, it's like a decent proxy for what their force production performance is likely to look like. But the more and more trained someone gets, the tighter and tighter, meaning the closer that relationship holds where greater muscle cross-sectional areas, bigger and bigger muscles tend to predict better and better performances more and more accurately, the more well-trained you are because that element of skill and coordination and stuff like that, that no longer becomes a significant differentiating variable between competitors. At that high level, people know how to squat super efficiently, super repeatedly, like you and I, we don't even have to think about squatting or a cue or anything, it just kind of happens. And so then it's just like, okay, well, how much force can you put out during this effort? And that at that very highly trained level is to some extent just proportional to how much overall cross-sectional area do you have and then moderated or mediated or augmented by some of those other variables that you don't get to choose. How far from your joints do you tend to detach and various other like little interesting biochemical minutia like that. And so he was already quite gifted and highly trained and then jumped up 25 pounds in body weight and remains quite lean. So a large amount of that was muscle mass and muscle cross-sectional area on top of a highly trained already kind of genetically gifted athlete. And so yeah, his total is going to jump up a lot. And I think that's a sufficient explanation for an improvement in performance at this level when you're highly trained and you move up a weight class. More so than just like mass because that, you know, it's not to say that if he had gained, you know, 25 pounds of body fat that his performance would have gone up. I think that that's fairly obvious to anyone here. But yeah, let me play devil's advocate here a little bit. Let's say in this world, and this is speculation. So let's say that Russ moved up this weight class, actually did not represent a significant increase in muscle mass, but instead he no longer has to cut to make the lower weight class previously who's in 83 kilos. And so it's not so much that he has any more active contractile muscle tissue, but rather he does not have to go through the stress of reducing calories, losing body water. We know that hypohydration, for example, as little as 2% can significantly compromise performance. Is this just like, oh, you don't have to cut anymore? Like you just or cut as much? It's maybe just like, oh, yeah, I have a protein shake for your dinner the night before rather than like, bro, I got a few weeks. I got to lose this weight. I got to sauna, whatever. Does that seem reasonable to you? It just kind of depends on how much did he have to cut before and how much did he have to cut now? I mean, if he had said, I'm going to move up and I'm going to weigh 100 kilos. And instead of, you know, weighing 90 and cut to 83, now I'm going to go up to 100 and cut to 93 or something like that, you know, then it may end up kind of coming out on the wash a little bit at that point. I mean, also depending on the rules of where you're competing places you and I have competed in before that allowed 24 hour weigh in some other places that we even went further at 48 hour weigh in. I remember hearing about Dan Green doing like just some absolute gnarly cuts from, you know, 250 pounds down like losing 30, 30 plus pounds or something like that in his 48 or eight hour cut, which is risky and very unpleasant. I can imagine. So under these stricter conditions, you can't afford to try to be that aggressive. Maybe maybe a maybe a small part of it. So in January of 2025 of this year at the Sheffield Powerlifting Championships Russ weighed in at 182.6 pounds and he totaled 1919. Right. And so now July of 2025 he weighed in at 202.3 pounds and totaled 2023 pounds. So I'm thinking I'm like the odds of him gaining, let's call it 10 pounds of lean body mass in this amount of time. That's actually like muscle tissue. Highly unlikely. Agree. More likely is that he was already walking around at like 205, 210. I don't know this to be the case. I know that there's probably some internet, you know, fans of that are more tied in that are like, oh, I can speak to this. You know, it seems more likely that he just didn't cut as much just given the given the timing here. That's just my two cents. Yeah, that timing variable adds some important context, although I don't think he was probably cutting over 20 pounds for a two hour weigh in. Let's hope not competition. That seems insane. Here's, here's the, yeah, the wildest thing about his performance and we'll move on to the third feet of strength is that so he opened his squad at 711, which is at that point, I believe was like 30 or 40 pounds under his best, which was like 749. So all right, decent opener. He misses his second attempt at 756. Okay, which would have been a competition PR. And then instead of being like, I only got to repeat it, which is normally what most powerlifting coaches would advise or whatever, but I would probably favor in this high stakes situation and APF championships. Nah, screw it. I'm going 783. What dude? That's incredible. Those decisions are stressful on, on meet day, but it also kind of depends on the reason for the, you know, the missed lift. If you missed that second one, because, you know, you started to go up and it was just far too heavy, then yeah, it's a fool's errand to try to jump up even higher. But if it's a minor technical fault, for example, like this isn't what happened to him. He got called on depth, I believe by the side judges. But, you know, I remember doing a, doing a meet where I think I, you know, rewracked the weight like a split second too quickly or something, these kind of silly rules that are not actually directly related to your performance of the lift, but rather kind of just other, other aspects of the competition. Then you might say, okay, like I'll just fix that. And I know I have the strength and, and technical ability to actually execute the next lift up. So those are kind of game day or real time decisions that can get made by a confident, well trained experienced athlete and their coach who understand the reason for missing a lift. But sometimes you'll see people who like absolutely struggle to grind out a weight and still call for a load increase. And it's like, well, that's not going to happen. So yeah, yeah, unfortunate. All right. Third impressive feat of strength. This happened at the CrossFit Games that took place in Albany, New York this past week. Now for the fourth time in CrossFit Games history, there was a one rep max back squat event. Although this is the first time it was a standalone event. Previously, there were three CrossFit totals. That's where you do a one rep max on the squat, a one rep max on the overhead press and a one rep max on the deadlift. Those were done in 2007, 2018 and 2020. Well, this time they had a one rep max back squat only event. The winner of the men's division was Colton Mertens. He squatted 570 pounds to win the men's division. So of the 30 men's competitors who made it to the CrossFit Games finals, six of them squatted greater than 500. For comparison purposes, in 2020, when they held the CrossFit total that year, nobody squatted more than 500. And 86% of the field this year, squatted 450 pounds or more, but only 30% squatted 450 or more in 2018. Let's also talk about the women. Mirjim Von Roan won the women's division at 360 pounds for her one rep max back squat. 70% of the women's field this year, squatted more than 300 pounds or only 50% squatted over 300 pounds in 2018. Why are CrossFit Games athletes getting so much stronger? How is this happening? CrossFit Games has been around for almost 20 years. And does this change how you would train somebody interested in competitive CrossFit? Yeah, I watched part of this competitive event out of interest. It was kind of cool to watch. They had each heat had, I forget how many athletes and they would just go around and they all worked up in their attempts. Interestingly, I actually think that they also allowed people to go down and wait, which kind of surprised me a little bit because one athlete missed their first and went down. And I was like, hold up, you're not supposed to be allowed to do that. But power of the rules. I guess you can do whatever you want in these events. But yeah, 570, 360, just incredibly impressive for athletes who can also do all the other things that they're expected to do. I don't think if you went to almost any competitive powerlifting meet, found somebody who squatted 570 or 360 and then asked them to do 150 foot handstand walk or something like that. I don't think that would go very well in the powerlifting meet hall. But at CrossFit Games, it's just like baseline expectation that you can do that, that you can run, swim, bike, do all these other things. So yeah, they're extremely impressive athletes. I will add a similar caveat to Colton Mertens here in this one as I did to Russ or he in the last one. So he's squatted 570. He weighs 190 pounds. He's also 5'4". Oh boy. So he is quite short. Yes. And so I suspect that that affords him certain advantages. For example, in events like this and puts him, I imagine that a pretty significant disadvantage in other events. I can imagine, for example, in like the rope climbs, maybe he might not do quite as hot compared with some of his lankier compatriots in the CrossFit Games. But nonetheless, I mean, very impressive performance here and obviously impressive to be able to qualify for the games at all. I do remember us having some conversations, I would say back closer to or during the peak days of the CrossFit Games. I think in general, anyone would recognize that the games are somewhat in decline these days compared with where they've been in prior years for a variety of, you know, decisions that we will leave aside for now. But talking about the strength standards, quote unquote, or what kind of strength levels are, you know, baseline expectations for athletes to be competitive at the games level. And I remember during those years when you were comparing, say, 2018, 2020, we were probably of the opinion of like, if you're able to squat, say, somewhere like in the mid-4s, you're probably strong enough to hang with the top of the pack. And you should probably be building up a lot of your other kind of athletic traits and skills and abilities and things like that. And clearly now that is no longer the case that squatting in the mid-4s. I mean, that was like the lowest end of the competitive heats when I was watching the guys. There were some other interesting just observations in terms of, you know, strategy and technique. And you could tell those who had a powerlifting background from those who didn't just in terms of like their setup methods and some of the equipment that they had. They were using and some athletes were low barring and a lot of them were high barring and you could just kind of make some of these observations. But no doubt the overall loads have consistently and steadily increased. I suspect if you looked at a lot of other performance metrics at the games, for example, you know, maybe average, maybe their PR 5K time or their PR 2K row or their ability to swim or their, you know, longest handstand walk distance or, you know, max pull-ups or something like that. Just, I suspect that all of these traits are going up to some degree in parallel. I don't necessarily think that, you know, they've unlocked, oh, the secret was I just needed to get stronger compared to where I was before. So now the strength numbers are higher. I bet that the competition, not only the competition is driving these things up, but the selection of athletes is just pulling for freakier and freakier people who can do these things. So, so to your final point, does this change how you would train someone interested in competitive crossfit? I'm sure that training methods have evolved over time, but I think it would be an oversimplification to say, oh, they figured out that you should just like get strong. I don't think that these data points, for example, would say, oh, I would really push my crossfit athlete to build up a one rep max back squat. It's almost like these one rep max back squats are an emergent property of a freaky athlete training to do freaky things for really long periods of time. With like reasonable training and programming methods, a high responder will end up being able to demonstrate this kind of thing with probably a bit of practice and occasional exposure. I doubt that they're consistently and reliably training for their one rep max back squats. For example, this could have been many other different types of strength feats or strength endurance feats or strength power feats. And we'd be seeing very impressive things as well, even though not all of those are getting like primary attention in their training program, just because there's so many things to be good at at this level. Yeah, yeah, I agree. I don't think that there is much of a shift in how I would think about developing a crossfit game. A person who's interested in competitive crossfit. I agree that the people need to be strong, but I think that that is more of like a happy accident of the rest of their training, which yes, some of it is fully focused on getting stronger, predominantly in the Olympic lifts and the variations thereof. Front squat, for example, push press, things of that nature. But as far as actually like a what would look like a powerlifting training block for strength, I don't think that's what would be advised based on this information. And further, just to throw a little wrinkle here, I look at the top three men competitors, Jason Hopper won overall. He swatted 500. Ricky Gerard got second. He swatted 455. And James Spray got third. He swatted 465. The one RM. And so I'm kind of of the opinion that these people are able to not only develop, but also sustain a high level of absolute strength, relatively high level of absolute strength, despite a very high training volume that also allows them to have excellent gymnastic skills, excellent Olympic weightlifting performance, great endurance performance and running, cycling, whatever, all that sort of stuff. And yeah, because they're exposed to the barbell enough, they're also able to develop and sustain a high level of strength. But I wouldn't be programming a lot of singles, for example, on a back squat. I don't know that I would train the bench press very often at all. I do think some exposure is probably reasonable just for upper body strength development, but not like a powerlifter. Yeah, I think that this is, again, not going to apply to most of the listening audience here, because they're not freaks on this level. But it's almost like... I like you for that. Thank you. Yeah, but it's almost like these people who are placing at the games or who are just very highly competitive in this sport, it's almost like who is bestowed with the genetic gifts to A, tolerate the amount of training that needs to be done, and B, who has the most resistance to the interference effect. So, like when we talk to our general population listeners, we're like, hey, don't sweat this interference issue. You can do your strength and conditioning. You can do them on the same day. You and I both do a lot of same day strength and conditioning, all that kind of stuff. I think that when you're training three plus times a day, doing all these different tasks, doing short stuff, fast stuff, heavy stuff, endurance effort, like there is a point where things undoubtedly interfere. And so it's almost like who is most resistant to the interference effect while also being able to tolerate the greatest training loads. And you wonder if that's sort of like, if you could distill that down into a metric, that would be like maybe predictive of somebody who is a very high performer in the CrossFit games. Now you just got to measure their fingers and see what the second to third digit ratio is. That's how you know. Yeah. It's a little inside joke. All right. Moving on to the National Football League. I don't know if you heard about this, but the NFL banned smelling salts. Kind of. The NFL has banned teams from providing smelling salts to players due to safety concerns, citing that they're unsafe and they're used to mask concussions. This comes from an FDA memo saying that, quote, adverse side effects of using unapproved ammonia inhalants, including shortness of breath, seizures, migraines, vomiting, diarrhea and fainting from consumers after using these types of products, possibly purchased through various websites. The players are allowed to bring and use their own ammonia inhalants. However, other sports have done this too. Hockey, Quebec, a branch of hockey, Canada that oversees amateur hockey in the province, they banned smelling salts in February, citing concern about their use by youth players. Just a little background here before we get you to weigh in on this. Ammonia inhalants are, quote, smelling salts are where any number of preparations containing ammonium carbonate are combined with liquid and these are widely available on the Internet. Smelling salts are typically combinations of this ammonium carbonate, alcohol and water and a more accurate term for this mixture is actually aromatic spirits of ammonia. But nobody calls them that. They call them that. That sounds lovely. Yes, right. Historically, smelling salts were used to prevent and sometimes treat fainting, dizziness and lightheadedness. Some older medical texts dating back to the 19th century described using smelling salts to quote, excite respiration to resuscitate a patient. They're said to work by this sort of inhalation reflex being an irritant on the nose to the nose and the lungs and then by increasing blood flow to the brain increasing heart rate. And together this resulting physiology is said to increase alertness and potentially a performance. Now there have been a number of studies on this. I reviewed this in a previous podcast. Basically shows no effect on performance, perhaps worsening performance in some applications like golf. There was a whole thing where people would use these ammonia inhalants prior to a putt and they were generally worse at putting that way. As far as safety goes, there have been at least two case reports of smelling salt related complications. In one, a female powerlifter had an allergic reaction after using an ammonia inhalant and she required with medical attention, but ultimately all of her symptoms resolved. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is this ban beneficial? Is it even necessary? Tough question. This is interesting that they have gone this far here. I'm curious, you know, they talk about concerns around the websites where athletes are getting these things from, but then allowing players to bring their own. So I found that to be a little bit of an odd wrinkle here. Like if you were primarily concerned about these supposed side effects, which I am retained some skepticism that all of them are causally related to the use of the ammonia inhalant. Why are they still letting athletes bring and use their own unless it's just like we don't want to be involved or related to like any sort of risk here. We want to be kind of CYA. So like players, you can do your own thing and we're not responsible for what happens to you. But I wonder, you know, in some of these situations, the idea that the ammonia inhalant is causing some of those symptoms. It feels like a bit of a stretch for some of the things. It almost makes me wonder like, what is the reason that they're using it for some apparent like resuscitative event to like, you know, make somebody feel better or wake up or something like that. And then are these potential side effects like actually effects of whatever caused that thing in the first place rather than a result of the ammonia inhalant capsule itself. This is something that I will admittedly say that I've not spent a great deal of time investigating like what are the potential toxicities of these things. But again, my threshold of skepticism here is say relatively high in that these are things that are commonly used in the competitive powerlifting context. Both you and I have experience using these things. And it's interesting thinking back like about the rationale around their use, what you described about like exciting respiration or accelerating resuscitation or improving performance. And when you're using them, all of those things feel true. And I think that that's where a lot of that came from. It's just like a vibes based justification for use. And then when it was studied a little bit more rigorously, it's like, oh, it turns out it doesn't really do any of those things, even though it like feels like it wakes you up and makes you focused and things like that. But that doesn't seem to pan out with more rigorous study. So I would want to see more rigorous evidence in the same way that we wanted rigorous evidence of efficacy. Yeah, would want to see more rigorous evidence to support the idea that it can cause any of these adverse events. I don't necessarily have a problem with any sporting organization setting its own rules and saying, hey, like we're not going to promote the use of these things. Certainly, like in the context of TBI and traumatic brain injuries and concussion in the NFL, like that's a big issue for sure. And ammonia is not a treatment for concussion or traumatic brain injury. So I'm fine with that, you know, not being recommended for use in that context. But I don't want to blow things out of proportion and attribute negative effects or consequences to these things that aren't actually caused by them. Yeah, I got I have two, two kind of points here. Point number one is that I do, I do favor your rationale that this is like a CYA type thing. Like look, if the teams are purchasing these inhalants and distributing them, will they're on some level responsible for verifying, hey, these are good inhalants? Sure. Compared to potentially harmful ones. And when I look at the FDA memo, they have a handful of like manufacturers listed, like they don't buy these ones. And it's unclear why other than people have reported adverse effects from using them. And it's like, well, were they using them quote incorrectly or like overzealously or like whatever. I did have to laugh. One of the names of the labs is called Spyrokeet research labs. That's oddly specific and unrelated to ammonia inhalants. Yeah, if you don't know what a Spyrokeet is, maybe Google that. You really want to get your trepanema polypilladium knowledge base up. You want to learn about some, some syphilis, Lyme disease, leptospirosis, different types of infections caused by these bacteria. Yeah, not clearly related to this issue. Yeah, maybe maybe just a good general rule of thumb is don't buy supplements or like these, these, you know, things from people with weird, potentially dumb names like insane labs or Spyrokeet research lab, maybe just don't. Also, there's a company listed on here called NoSlap and SolSlap, which yeah, would fall. That's just a good rule of thumb, I think generally speaking, but I'm unclear as to like, did they identify a particular ingredient that was responsible because it can't just be ammonia, given the fact that when looking for case reports on adverse effects in sport, I only was able to find two papers. And the last one was over 20 years ago. And so I'm like, if this was, if there were bodies, you know, or adverse effects that were, that were having an overwhelming amounts, I would expect more case reports. So this is kind of curious. Yeah, I mean, both you and I have been at powerlifting meets where by the end of the day, like the ground is just littered with the little pink capsules after they've been cracked and used before Lyftr's attempts. Some people that we know from the past would even use them routinely in training, like before most of their work sets. It's like, just statistically, this is going to take you out at some point if they were as risky as it might be suggested here. So I'm curious about contaminants or confounding by, you know, what's the reason you passed out and needed to felt like you needed a smelling salt afterwards, rather than the smelling salt causing it. My only other feedback here has to do with maybe the impact of sports on society. So just imagine if there's just a plethora of NFL players using these things or just athletes generally speaking that are highly visible, and then kids or otherwise they're highly influential, influential populations see this and then they go on by this stuff and use them. Perhaps not as as intended or whatever. And then yeah, there's some, you know, unwanted effects there. That seems, you know, it's kind of like like chewing tobacco and baseball. It's like, yeah, okay, kids see this and there's even like a gum, you know, big league chew and it's like, does this, maybe we should think about this a little harder. I don't want to be like a nanny about this sort of stuff. But yeah, these effects, you know, potentially real. Yeah, I'm with you. All right. Last topic here on the third episode of the rundown can't not talk about it. RFK junior in the news again. The US Department of Health and Human Services, the HHS plans to cancel $500 million in funding for mRNA vaccines being developed to counter viruses that cause diseases such as the flu and COVID-19. This will impact at least 22 projects being led by major pharmaceutical companies, including Pfizer and Moderna for vaccines against bird flu and other viruses in addition to vaccines for certain types of cancer. That's been an emerging area of research for mRNA related vaccines. Long time critic RFK junior said in a video he posted on X formerly Twitter this week, he said that mRNA vaccines do not adequately prevent upper respiratory infection such as COVID-19 and the flu. He also announced that he was pulling the funding over the claims that mRNA technology poses more risks than benefits for these respiratory viruses. Children's Health Defense, this is an organization that RFK junior founded. Well, their president, Mary Holland, not a doctor said that while we believe that mRNA vaccines should be taken off the market, the announcement is a positive move towards protecting public health. Oh boy. Austin, any any initial thoughts to this? Yeah, I mean, I think that we've watched the discourse around this topic and many others play out for the past five years or so. And it's been a challenging discourse to follow frustrating in many ways. I think that, you know, the conversation around them from the beginning has been flawed that the communication around these these types of immunizations as well as many others to the general public has been flawed. And I think that even a lot of public health folks and and healthcare professionals would recognize that that communication could have been improved. I don't think that either of us would be on board with the idea that these products or the technology, broadly speaking, poses more risk than benefit. I think that they are products that were rapidly developed on a background of research going back a few decades. They were tested on tens of thousands in randomized trial placebo controlled trial fashion early during the pandemic, allowing for pretty rapid deployment at about a year out. And in the aftermath, looking back retrospectively, we can see differential efficacy, meaning more or less effective.  adiabness, both over time, which is common with many different sorts of vaccines and immunizations, as well as differences between patient groups. So for those who were at highest risk of severe disease and hospitalization and death, I think that the benefits of these products tended to outweigh the risks. And then for very, very low-risk individuals, that calculus may have been different on an individual level for that person. And again, that's even a different conversation than on a society level. Big picture of the whole herd immunity concept. And those are detailed conversations that I would say are a little beyond our scope here today. But basically, this is to say that I think he's probably painting with too broad of a brush in his comments that there are potential uses for this technology that deserve study. The next question, though, is whether or to what extent that research study development ought to be promoted by, funded by the federal government and taxpayer dollars. And so that is more of a policy decision than anything else. And that can be set by elected and appointed officials based on the results of our electoral system. And so I don't think that this technology is going to go away. I think that by removing this funding, some people might say, well, say goodbye to your cure for cancer or something, not to say anything about the idea of curing cancer as a monolith is not a thing. But if there is a curable cancer by way of one of these mRNA vaccines, I don't think that pulling this funding is the thing that's going to completely eliminate that possibility. It may alter the timeline on which we might see something like that. It might have been otherwise sooner with federal support, and it might be more delayed. But I think that ultimately this research and development is just going to shift elsewhere. And that might mean even outside of our country, and it might be spearheaded and led by other countries, and they might end up enjoying the benefits of it. Or if it ends up being a failure for a particular condition or outcome, then they would suffer the failures of it. That's part of the reason why, going back decades, the federal government has funded and supported all sorts of research in the country. It is research that may not be immediately commercially beneficial to incentivize a private company to go after it. And it kind of takes on some amount of that risk to kind of get the ball rolling. And of course, not all projects are going to work out, or all research studies are going to lead to some breakthrough discovery. But to give a different example of the federal government originally funding, like a study on the saliva of Gila monster venom from decades ago. And you can see, I can just imagine that getting posted rage bait on Twitter or social media saying, can you believe the government is funding us studying the saliva of lizards or something? It's like, yeah, well, fast forward 20 years, and that's what led to GLP-1 agonists. That's how we discovered all of that, which are changing the world in all sorts of generally positive ways, I think that both you and I would say. So this is admittedly a bit of a meandering answer of a variety of my thoughts on this topic. I think that there is a role for federal funding of research. I think that as the elected and appointed group of folks, they are able to make these kind of policy decisions. I don't think that if their goal is like to shut down this kind of research and development for good, that this is going to do that. It's just going to shift elsewhere, I think. And that might be to other people's benefit potentially. And again, it'll just alter a lot of timelines for these things compared with the federal support that was previously planned and being given. Yeah. I think it's well said regarding the policy aspect of this. If someone is of the opinion that research, as it's currently done, should be supported by the government, whether in our country or other countries, then it's like, okay, well, this effect would stymie and certainly slow down research related to mRNA related therapeutics. If somebody is more of the opinion, wow, this should be privatized. It should be done by the potential manufacturers commercially and so on and so forth. Well then, you're like, great, the government now just saved some money. Where I fall on that is like, I don't see that being a viable way to support research in our country as it currently is just too expensive. There's not enough privatized fund aid. And then, oh, by the way, when that research comes out, the first thing people say is like, oh, look who funded it. It's like, well, damned if you do, damned if you don't from that perspective. So that's my first issue. They're like, look, it's a policy thing. People elected these folks. So I guess I understand. But I'm very curious as to what the reaction is going to be within the research world and how this does this set us back. We'll only be able to tell some years from now. I suspect it's not a good move for like the health trajectory of the community. But that's speculative. So I'm being charitable here. There you go. My bigger issue here is that we've granted this particular individual a large platform to speak from, right? The Department of Health and Human Services director. And then he says, well, mRNA technology, not just vaccines for COVID, but mRNA technology poses more risks than benefits for respiratory viruses at large, like bird flu, influenza, COVID, et cetera. There's way more than just those three, right? Sowing doubt and distrust in the public already was like probably feeling, man, the communication during COVID was not great and there's a lot of stuff up in the air and the internet being what it is. Yeah, that's challenging. And then also saying, hey, they didn't work, by the way. It's like, well, it'd be very challenging to support that with existing evidence. Did it work exactly as advertised or understood by many? Well, no, but that's a communication issue, not like an efficacy problem, broadly speaking. So I'll told them, like, look, if he would have said, look, we're cutting funding because we want to direct it towards this other thing that we think is more promising. We wouldn't be talking about it right now. But to come on, so we're cutting funding. We think these mRNA based technology was generally bad and more risky than beneficial. It's like, if we have another pandemic that requires the use or benefit from the use of mRNA technology, we're kind of pickled. I was listening to an interview with one of the former directors and health advisors for like seven previous presidencies, right? And he's like, look, I've lived through a number of different vaccines or pandemics that have required some sort of vaccine development or whatever. And so with our existing technology unrelated to mRNA, the best we could do if we already had the technology, already had the genome could do whatever with it, right? Knew what we were fighting. We could maybe make enough vaccines for a quarter of the population in 15, 18 months. With mRNA technology, we could develop a vaccine for a pandemic in 12 months for everyone. And he's like, so let's hope we don't have another pandemic. So yeah, challenging, challenging understanding the rationale here. Yeah. And as someone who was working in inpatient hospital units during the worst of those times and seeing a lot of folks, mostly, yes, mostly middle-aged and older folks getting very ill and many of them dying, also seeing the occasional unlucky young person who got very sick, potentially very ill and a couple who even did die during that time. The idea that there are potential strategies that we have to shift that probability of risk, right? Which is the, if we can communicate that more effectively, not that these things have the potential to abolish any chance that you will ever get an infection or that you will ever get sick again, which is where misconceptions came from, right? But instead, if you were somebody who would have otherwise died, maybe now you don't die. If you were someone who otherwise would have been hospitalized, maybe you don't get hospitalized. If you were otherwise going to get very ill, maybe now you only get mildly ill. And if you were going to get mildly ill, maybe you have an asymptomatic infection, just like shifting that probability curve is what these types of tools can do for us. Communicating that concept more effectively, I think, can help people make a little bit more informed decisions based on their baseline risk profile and their health and wellness goals and things like that moving forward. There were plenty of people who declined immunization for various reasons, personal, religious, whatever preferences, et cetera. And many of them, of course, did okay, especially if they were at low baseline risk. Some of them didn't do okay. And I sat face-to-face with some of those people in their literal dying moments when they said, well, I didn't want to take it because I was worried about the side effect. And I can't say that it would have saved their life, but it would have probably given them a better shot than they had otherwise. And so that's like the, I think it's useful to recognize the background of experience that I come at this question with is working and operating in that situation. And so as a potential tool to mitigate those types of bad things from happening, pulling the funding is something that is just, I'm saying it's just likely to set it back. Whether it's ultimately good or bad, I think that's too reductive of a question. These tools are more useful for some than others. Maybe it shifts in a way and the timeline shift and 50 years from now, maybe it all ends up coming out on the wash somehow. And it's just like the future is not something that any of us have any great deal of insight into on this matter, but that's kind of where we stand today. Yeah, yeah, I agree. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the third episode of the rundown here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Before we go, just a quick plug for our Barbell Medicine Plus subscription. If you want to listen to these podcasts, add free. If you want discounts and early access to our new products and services, extended template samples, early access to articles, transcripts, consider signing up for Barbell Medicine Plus. About the cost of a cup of coffee for us every month. The first month is free. You can check that out in the link in the description below. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so it can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and help and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on the podcast. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thanks for watching. We'll see you next time.

=== FILE: The Rundown #4- Creatine Overdose (？), LeBron does a silly deadlift, ChatGPT nearly kills a guy... [GN1tkyd-PAM].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and this is an episode of the rundown, where we cut through the noise and give you the latest headlines in medicine, fitness, nutrition, and sports. I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki, and we've got a packed agenda today covering everything from a purported creatine overdose, which might be the first on record, to the latest on blood pressure, LeBron James doing silly stuff in the gym, and the rise of new technologies. So, Dr. Baraki, unless you have any announcements, let's go. Go announcements. Let's do it. All right, we're doing it. So, this first one, I saw this. I only watch a handful of sports, and one of them happens to be golf. I know that people are like, why do you watch golf, because it's the most boring sport to watch ever. That is only true if you don't play golf. Anyway, I saw this interview happen live, and I was like, we have to talk about this. Guy Ben Griffin has had a breakout season. He had been a kind of a journeyman, professional golfer most of his career, and now he's won multiple times on the tour. He's on the Ryder Cup team, which happened, depending on when this comes out recently. In any case, he had one of the playoff rounds. He had like a terrible stretch of holes. He began with a triple bogey, which is bad if you don't play golf. That's not good. He had a double bogey, which is also bad, but less bad than the triple bogey, and then a bogey, which is also bad, but again, less bad than the triple of the double. So, he's six over through the first three holes, which is objectively terrible. And he attributes this poor performance to swallowing a large amount of creatine in his shake wall after he teed off. He called it a rock of creatine, which is the first time ever that combines it together. He said he was super shaky. He experienced tremors, and yeah, he attributed that to his inability to perform on the course. Subsequently, his caddy helped him drink water and calm down, apparently. And yeah, he turned his performance around and ended up shooting a 69, which is under par. So, he finished 12th for the tournament, and yeah, in his post-round interview, he was like, it was the creatine. I think I overdosed on creatine. So, Dr. Brock, in your professional medical opinion, despite not being a, you know, board-certified toxicologist, what is the likelihood here of a creatine overdose? Not a board-certified toxicologist, but an amateur toxicology nerd. And so, I suspect that the likelihood of creatine overdose here is quite low for a lot of reasons. Knowing what we know about creatine itself, its mechanism of action, you know, how long it takes to, quote, unquote, work and have its effect, how long that effect will tend to last, none of those things fit with this syndrome that was described here. So, a lot of times when you're evaluating somebody with concerns for some sort of toxic ingestion, you know, we look for particular, what we call syndromes, that might lead you in the direction of what might be the mechanism of how this drug or ingestion is impacting the person's physiology. So, is it something that's like activating their sympathetic nervous system, or is it, you know, blocking some other pathway, and we can see certain signs, either on an exam or with labs, or based on the symptoms the person's having, or like, are they having seizures? What are their pupils look like? What does their EKG look like? So, there's a ton of things that we can use to assess this, and, you know, he describes apparently in relatively short order after this ingestion, which is worth noting, faster than creatine tends to have any physiologic effect, feeling super shaky, tremors, and so that's kind of like this more activated state, which is also not something that creatine causes physiologically, like a sympathetic or like a caffeine or something else that is more stimulant in nature might tend to lead to. So, that also doesn't fit. And then finally we know, for example, you know, once somebody does take some creatine, say they've been taking it consistently over time, how long does it take to wash out of your system? It takes like on the order of a couple weeks to start washing out of your system, right? And so, not only does the timing in terms of ingestion to symptoms not make a ton of sense, the symptoms themselves don't make a ton of sense, and then the fact that within the same round, he's able to drink some water and just like chill out and then return to his prior level of really strong performance. That timeline of like recovery also does not make sense for the substance that is purportedly ingested. And so, you know, it's not to say he didn't experience something he obviously did, but attributing it to creatine in general or an quote unquote overdose in particular does not really seem to fit here. And so that just raises suspicion for me for a few other things. You know, we know that a lot of supplements are either contaminated in general, which can be an issue, although even that still, there's a lot of issues with the timing here in terms of a contaminant that leads to this immediate set of symptoms that then you just like drink some water and chill out and it vanishes within a round. Still, it doesn't fit really well. Or a lot of these creatine supplements are not necessarily just creatine, but they're like creatine as part of a pre-workout supplement or something like that, which does have a boatload of caffeine in it or some stimulants. And caffeine can, you know, onset and offset in relatively shorter order. Or lastly, like he ingested this and maybe he got freaked out by if he quote unquote inhaled a rock, he didn't end up in his lungs, but maybe he felt like something went down the wrong way, freaked out, led to some anxiety, some panic, and of course golfers being in a sport where they are A, like super inter-acceptive in tune with their, you know, mental state, their bodies, their performance, it's very highly skill dependent. And so maybe, you know, relatively tiny things can risk throwing somebody off their game a little bit and then you can kind of spiral from there. I know you've described that before. And, you know, seeing a lot of golfers describe this thing. So I think there are a lot of other potential more plausible explanations for this rather than like pure creatine monohydrate acute toxicity that resolved within just as fast as it onset seemingly. Yeah. Yeah, it's, it was interesting to hear. Yeah, I tend to agree with you that my two, like if I was favoring what really happened and try to come up with a, you know, an idea to the two main things I favor. One is that it was actually like a pre-workout that had caffeine and he happened to just overdose on caffeine acutely, although the timeline doesn't exactly make sense. But like at least there's some like physiological plausibility there. Or two, it's actually more a revisionist history thing. Like he got off to a terrible start. There was maybe, you know, starts feeling anxieties like, oh no, I have to perform well because I want to get on the Ryder Cup team. I want to finish strong, I want to make, you know, do well. You know, yeah, you can kind of spiral there and then it just happened to have also ingested, right, you know, whatever this was. Here's the thing though. There are no reported cases of creatine overdose, which is actually, actually baffling to me just given how common the supplement is and you would expect that somebody would have, I took the whole tub. They get like some sort of like GI related thing where it just is all impacted or whatever. I don't know, something that doesn't exist, not out there, not a no overdose. And that's different than a side effect also just to clarify for the listeners at home. They're like, wait, I took creatine once and I got bubble guts. That's an overdose. I'm like, well, side effects are, you know, these documented adverse events that can occur at, you know, virtually any dose. And so, yeah, that's been described in creatine at particularly at higher doses, nausea, diarrhea, stuff like that, cramping. But overdoses are like an actual toxicity. And I think when you, if you were trying to like define these words, you would say toxicity is some sort of severe medical event versus just like you tell me, you tell me hurts a little bit. So, yeah, contaminant could, that's possible, but probably more likely to, you know, just common things being common. A lot of caffeine. Maybe that was the thing or just revisionist history and you got to confabulate a reason for why you sucked the first three holes. Yeah, people do this, you know, without even realizing it a lot of times we look for or we, we seek stories to explain our experiences. And so this concept of confabulation is more of like a medical term that's used in certain context, but humans do this all the time. We backfill explanations for all sorts of things in a way that seemingly makes sense, which is another interesting aspect of human psychology. So has he competed again since that tournament? Because I was not aware of this happening or what's his status now. Yeah, so this was the second round of the Race to the FedEx Cup. So basically they start with 120 players and then they cut it down to 70 and then it cut it down to 30. So he made it all the way through and actually this weekend is going to be the Ryder Cup. That's like every other year. Yeah, so he made the team big, big year for this guy. So we'll see how he does. He's kind of interesting. He plays with like aviators, like mirrored aviators, which is, they're not like sports like glasses and it looks kind of funny on his fate. But he has some sort of eye condition. I forget what it is offhand. And yeah, he's been a Stone Cold Killer this year. So we'll see how he does. Cool. All right. Next we're going to dive into the hot topic that is GLP-1 agonist. We got a few of these items on today's rundown. So these are the drugs like Ozympic and we go that have become so popular for weight loss. And we know they're great at managing obesity, but what about their long term effects? We get these questions all the time like, come on, we don't really know what they do, even though some derivation this has been out for about 20 years and we do have long term data. That's besides the point because the new study published in JAMA's oncology journal looked at their impact on cancer risk. Researchers conducted a large retrospective study following over 43,000 GLP-1 receptor agonist users and compared them to a similar group of non-users. And they looked at the incidence of 16 different obesity related cancers over a period of about 10 years. So the study found that GLP-1 users had a significantly lower overall cancer risk, 17% lower to be precise, compared to non-users. And this is a huge deal because this is a promising result with reduced risk of endometrial ovarian and esophageal cancers as well as meningiomas in the brain. However, not all of the findings were positive. They also saw that there was a non-significant increase in the risk of kidney cancer. So again, non-significant, but some signal there that maybe warrants some additional monitoring. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is how do we as physicians or people in this space weigh the risk benefit profile when counseling patients about these medications, especially with respect to cancer risk? Is this something you would bring up or just like keep this feather in your cap for like, yeah, that's cool. Cool that this happens, but I don't necessarily need to talk to patients about it. Yeah, this is not actually something that comes up in any of my counseling with respect to these medicines when working with patients. This data, it's one of those things that you kind of want to be true, but I think there's a lot of caveats to these types of studies. You mentioned it's a retrospective analysis, which itself introduces a number of potential issues that they can try to control for, but ultimately it's not possible to fully address all of these things. And so in several of these studies that I've seen, I haven't actually seen the data in the particular one you cited, but this is not the first in this realm where they kind of claim that these medicines are associated with lower incidence of cancer. But when you look at the incidence curves, for example, a lot of times the curves of those who develop cancer versus don't, for example, it separates immediately upon initiation of the drug, which is essentially an indicator that there is some bias in this study, not bias like nefarious from the researchers, but rather something that's unaccounted for, for example, like what fundamental is different between those who end up getting put on these versus those who don't as an example. And so when you see that immediate separation of the curves in these studies of those who tend to get cancer who are not on GLP ones versus those who seemingly get it at a lesser rate on GLP ones, that's an indicator of a problem with the data, not that these drugs are so magical that within the first couple of days or weeks, people are already experiencing less cancer. And so I am not confident in this, in these sorts of observations. It's very plausible to me that over a long enough time period, if you manage to reduce the burden of obesity, that the incidence or the risk of obesity related cancers might tend to decrease over time. But I am not as confident in the magnitude of effect that's reported in, or of association that's reported in these studies. I would not be confident in like particular effects on particular cancers as reported in these studies or certainly those where there's some non-significant increase in kidney cancers, also not confident in that finding. We would need different types of data and evidence to show that sort of thing with a greater degree of confidence. So when I'm counseling patients on these medicines, none of this is really coming up in my conversations. You don't need to scare patients with obesity that they're more likely to get cancer in order to have these conversations effectively. I think people with obesity who are seeking care and seeking treatment for these things, oftentimes they're already aware that this is not the healthiest state for them to be in. And if they're not aware, then there are other ways to go about this conversation rather than using what I would deem to be not ideal observational data in the realm of cancer when we have much stronger evidence like randomized controlled trial level evidence of this reduces the incidence of cardiovascular events. We know it reduces the incidence of progression of chronic kidney disease. We have a lot higher quality evidence for benefits in other realms if we wanted to lean on those, whereas I don't actually buy this data yet at this point, mainly because of, like I said, when you look at the curve separation being immediate, I'm like, immediately, this is not useful to me right now. Yeah, I mean, I inclined to agree with you with the caveat being I actually do think there is some cancer risk reduction. I just don't know that it's that big or it could be bigger or, you know, in more cancers. You see what I'm saying? Like, mainly because we do not know that excess adipose tissue is certainly a risk factor. And so by reducing that risk factor, it intuits that, yeah, risk of developing cancer or disease burden from cancer would also go down. But yeah, exactly as you mentioned, as you mentioned the curves, and you're just talking about these Kaplan-Meier curves where you would expect them to stay pretty tight, you know, people taking the drug and people not taking the drug and then later on split. If they split immediately, that means that either the enter intervention is causing additional, like, either behavior change or some other sort of differences between the two groups, or the groups are just different. Something is happening that is not being picked up in the data set. And so, yeah, when I saw all the mainstream media like jump on this paper and be like, these things reduce cancer, is there anything they can't do? They probably make Julian fries. And it's like, well, like, I like the enthusiasm. Sure. And I like, you know, anytime Big Pharma, especially today, like, kind of gets a win. It's not that I'm rooting for Big Pharma, you know, as the Ka'bal, but I'm kind of like, it's nice, you know, to just have a feel good story here once in a while, rather than something sketchy in the mainstream media. So I was, I liked the enthusiasm, but I was like, do we have other positive things to report on with these medications? Like you mentioned, cardiovascular disease risk, chronic kidney disease risk, all sorts of stuff. And so it could have been, I guess, couched in a more accurate way. Like, we have these known benefits. We have this relatively well known safety profile. And yet it may reduce risk of developing cancer. This data is not super convincing, although the, you know, sample size was large, which I liked. And the follow up period was reasonably long, although you'd want it to be longer. So yeah, just to me, this is just like, it's like a, it's like a road sign in the middle of your journey. It's like, look, we're part way there. This is, it's signaling trending towards positive, but we need some better data that's longer term and done a little bit differently, I think. Yeah, I mean, I suppose you could frame it as well. At least we didn't see a super concerning signal of harm that needs to be teased out further. I'm unconvinced on the magnitude of benefit or the timeline to benefit. And that's why this is not informing a ton of my conversations, but a lot of times these observational studies can be hypothesis generating in either direction for potential benefits or for potential harms. And at least we're not seeing massive potential harm that was unaccounted for in this because regardless of what you described it into its well that potentially obesity related cancers might decrease our intuition and our kind of what seemingly appears rational, logical that we might deduce oftentimes fails to play out and randomize trials. So that's kind of where we are right now. Agreed. All right. Another GLP one related topic. This is also a new study because it's a new drug. Maritide is going to be the name which actually of the obesity, the anti obesity medications. I'm not a friend. Yeah. What do we think this is? Meridibart. Caphrotlutide. Okay. That's a sound bite. This new drug has been shown to produce about 12 to 16% weight loss in individuals with obesity compared to 2.5% in the placebo arm, according to a recent phase two clinical trial. Now, that's not news because Zepbound or Zepetite, this is not like groundbreaking weight loss, but it's in a once per month shot, which is actually groundbreaking. Now, as far as how this drug works, it's most similar to Terzepetide, which is Monjaro or Zepbound in that it targets both this glucose insulinotropic polypeptide or GIP receptor and also the GLP one receptors. However, it's different in that the drug contains an antibody against that GIP receptor, whereas Terzepetide actually stimulates that receptor. So we're going to talk about that for a second. Also, Meridibart has two GLP one receptor agonists, whereas Terzepetide only has one. So slightly different, but similar kind of structure. So it is kind of interesting. It's like one of these drugs Terzepetide actually like stimulates that this GIP receptor, whereas this new one Meridibart actually antagonizes it. And so when you stimulate the receptor, activate this GIP receptor, the mechanism is thought to be based on this appetite suppression kind of thing. It's similar to the GLP one receptor. And so if you stimulate it, yeah, you get a reduction in appetite. There's also maybe some neurobiological effect where your brain is more sensitive to energy balance, which would go into that appetite suppression kind of thing. But if you block it like this new drug Meritide does, there's some thought that this basically blocks fat storage or reduces fat storage by influencing what's happening at the level of the fat tissue itself. And then you also get the appetite suppression from the GLP one part of this drug. So it's kind of interesting. It's like you can get benefits from doing anything to GIP. Like you have to just hang it out there. It's like, hey, do something to me. I'm going to do good. Yeah. And the idea and one of the interesting things is, you know, all these are normal and dodging this things that we all have yet these meds, the way they end up delivering such high degrees of efficacy is by increasing activity at those things or blocking activity at those things way, way, way outside the bounds of like what normal. So the point of this is that, you know, a lot of times people will see maybe in these social media posts or in certain advertisements or people hocking certain supplements or dietary strategies to like increase your. What quote unquote quote unquote quote GLP one and it's like you are not even getting within a couple orders of magnitude of what these meds can do. And so the degree of effectiveness that you're going to see as a result is going to be similarly unimpressive in comparison. Yeah, there's actually, and I believe in one of our articles on these medications, I discuss actually the difference between like gut generated GLP one and then when you the difference with you take the medication and at the levels in the brain. Yeah, it's orders of magnitude different like you could do every bio hack possible to raise your GLP one levels. Right. And then you could take the lowest dose possible of any of these medications and you'd see again orders of magnitude difference in GLP one levels. In any case, this is pretty interesting. This drug, it mainly from an adherence standpoint. I tried looking up like what was the adherence for people taking like ozampic or wegovy same thing was that bound, you know, once a week or whatever. And just just seeing like how many times on average do people miss a dose, right, or skip a dose or whatever. I couldn't, I couldn't really find any good evidence there. But generally speaking, there's this inverse relationship between the frequency of medication administration and adherence. And so I guess I wouldn't expect people who are taking these anti obesity medications to be, you know, to be missing doses regularly. I'm not motivated to take these things. But I'd also just get your take on this. Do you think this is a big potentially a game changer with the once monthly dosing compared to weekly. Yeah, so interesting topic here because we have a lot of experience with other types of medicines. And in general when I'm prescribing meds to patients, you know, higher frequency dosing in general makes it harder and harder for people to stick with it. And I think there's a lot of meds, for example, that I can think of certain antibiotics, for example, that are like four times a day. And it's like, gosh, even I would, you know, suck at taking that every six hours around the clock or something like that. And then we have longer and longer acting meds that might be once a day or once a week, you know, once a month there are there even some like there's an osteoporosis medicine that we dose people once a year, you just get an IV infusion of it once a year and you're you're set. So there are pros and cons to all of these things. The pros obviously have to do with convenience and sustained effect, particularly for patients who might have difficult unique difficulties with adhering. This is also the case in the realm of certain psychiatric care with schizophrenia and things like that where you want to be confident that the patient's getting treatment and less likely to miss doses leading to relapses and issues like that. On the other hand, when you have a medicine that is very long acting, it can, there can be two issues with that. The first is that it takes longer to reach your kind of steady state level of medication activity. So it takes a little bit of like loading time to get up to the right levels in the system. That's not as big of a concern, but it's just something that we that we recognize. The other though is that depending on the dose that you start with, if you end up starting too high and the person experiences side effects on too high of a dose that they get up front, you cannot easily adjust the dose as quickly. And so the extreme version of this is like where I tend to work, be it in a hospital or an ICU type setting where I have a medicine that if I stop it, it's out of your system in like two minutes. And so I can tweak the dose very fine tune to get exactly what I want. Whereas if it's a medicine that's going to last in your system for three months and I load you up with way too much up front, it's like, well, this is going to suck for a little while. And before we're able to adjust things. This is also for example why in throwing back to some toxicology, when patients develop vitamin D toxicity, if they take way too much vitamin D and it accumulates in their body fat and they have super high vitamin D levels that lead to the consequences of high calcium and all sorts of other things, it can take months for that to get better because it's all accumulated and it's long lasting and it's stored up in their body fat and it's slowly being released that way. And so my questions, concern if I were initiating a patient on a medicine like this because we know that upfront at the time of dose initiation of GLP-1 agonists and with dose adjustments going up in dose, for example, at that time patients might have a little bit more of the gastrointestinal side effects, particularly among patients who are a little bit more sensitive to them and before they fully adapted to these meds. So they might have a little bit of GI stomach discomfort or some nausea or some constipation as somewhat common effects, depending on the dose, the person, the frequency of dose escalation and things like that. And so I would want to be extra careful with the medicine like this not to start out too high too soon or escalate too rapidly because again, I suspect that the effects might linger longer compared with if I were giving you medicine that's once a week where patients still might have issues for a few days or if I wanted to go way back to the laryngalutide, which is once daily, I could adjust the dose once a day, but at the same time the trade off is that those medicines are way less effective. So I think that the dose finding, dose ranging, adjusting, tweaking, titration with patients is going to require a little bit more careful strategy in these medicines that are longer and longer acting. On the other hand, we have experience with other meds in this space. There have been long acting formulations of insulin even, which is a much higher risk drug to be using with patients in terms of risk of low blood sugars that can be dangerous. And yeah, a couple years ago they came out with a once weekly long acting insulin, which scared me as somebody who uses mainly short acting stuff in a hospital setting. But when it's been researched, it's actually like pretty effective and not that much higher risk of low blood sugars in patients. I suspect, of course, you have to know what you're doing when you're dosing this stuff. But yeah, so more research, more practical experience will lead to proper dose finding and titration strategies. So those are some of the pros and some of the cons with medicines like this that are much longer acting. Alright, I got two questions and we'll move on to the next one. So you mentioned, yes, if you overdose, you know, the dose is too high, then you're kind of like up a creek because it lasts so long. But what if that is actually a feature and not a bug, not to overdose people, but say for example people routinely around the time of injection for whatever reason have with like somaglutide or terzepotide, they have nausea for a day or two, right? But then the rest of the week, they're fine. But I imagine if that happens enough times, they might start skipping doses because they're like, I really don't want to do this. And so there's less coverage, right? And so now, okay, look, you're still going to get maybe a couple of days of nausea. But then the rest of the month, you're killing it. It's great. So maybe that's a feature. Do you think that's plausible? P plausible. I think the factor that would differentiate as well does because it's a longer acting medicine does the last longer up front. And that would be that. That we'll just have to see based on experience once we start using this stuff. Assuming this makes it that mean this was I believe a phase two. And so it still has a little bit more to go before we might be able to use something like this. But if it gets there, we'll see. Yeah. Alright, second question. What side of the GIP coin are you on? You want a stimulator? You want to block it or maybe both? Can you that some look at some point there's going to be a medication. It's going to have multiple GLP ones attached to something that blocks GIP. The other one that some of the time stimulates it because we've refined this physiology enough. But yeah, curious, do you have a you're going to put your money on one side of the other on this GIP situation? No, I'm not because I don't know. I'm a clinician and not a basic scientist. There are a few other medicines out there that have this interesting kind of partial agonist or like mixed agonist antagonist type activity. But that's getting a little bit further down into the weeds of pharmacology and things like that that are both outside the scope of this podcast and outside the scope of my expertise. So I don't really know what we want to do with GIP, but I trust that the people who are most incentivized to figure that out are going to. Yeah, I just think we need to tickle it. That's sure that we just tickle GIP do something to it and it's like, great, we got a benefit for you. Yeah, sure. Nice. All right. Next, LeBron James does a silly exercise. Do you see this video? I've seen, I think it was him doing some kind of deadlift if I recall the video that you're talking about. Yeah, so this is none other than four time NBA champion LeBron James. And in this video, I'll put it in the show notes if you haven't seen it. He's in a gym performing what can only be described as a snatch grip sumo stance Romanian deadlift with about 165 pounds. You should know that the weight is light enough for him to actually swing the bar away from himself at the top of each rep by a few feet. Yeah, no, a few feet, not inches, like feet. Okay. And speaking of feet, he's wearing Vibram or Vibram five fingers, which are only good for like chastity purposes. So interesting that he's wearing those and more interesting than that is a like felt compelled to repost this because he's using an Elycho barbell and and weights. So the controversy that kind of erupted from this is not just about his form, though. It's the fact that his, you know, LeBron James, who has access to the best trainers, presumably nutritionist, physical therapist, whatever on the he has access to all this stuff. Why would he do this specific lift? Like who taught him this? There's no way you go into the gym and you're like, I'm going to adopt this wide stance and an even wider grip and then do a partial deadlift with the weight that's light enough that you can like hip thrust it away from you while standing. But on the other hand, you know, he's been in the league for like 20 years, so maybe we should all just shut up and not, you know, just move on by this video.  so what do you think about this? How did LeBron get here to this particular exercise? Do you think that he just came up with it because he saw somebody else doing it or somebody told him to do it? How do you think this happened? I would be surprised if he is making his own lifting decisions with the resources that he has access to in terms of his coaching and strength and conditioning and physical therapy and all the other things that he presumably has as part of his general routine for strength and conditioning and rehab and maintenance and performance and sports psychology. I bet that he has access to resources in all those realms, so I don't think that he necessarily arrived at this at all. It would be interesting to hear what the coach who prescribed this was thinking, but at the same time, we've seen all the usual arguments around this kind of thing over the years. On one hand, there are going to be folks who are like, this is the dumbest thing I've ever seen. This is more so coming from lifters, I suppose, oftentimes like us. You're like, this is a dumb way to do it. How else would you like to do deadlifts? Here's a more effective way to do this exercise. I think the more egregious level would be like, he would be so much better if he did it my way, which we see that kind of thing. On the other hand, there's people who might argue, well, over the course of a couple of decades doing this kind of thing, maybe they have gravitated and figured out something that quote unquote works for him. Then I think there's an in-between position where it's like, this is probably neither helping him that much, nor is it likely harming him that much. He is such a freak athlete in so many other ways that he is able to perform well. This is like fine. This is not substantially moving the needle. In other words, if he were to change and maybe instead of doing this weird squatty snatch grip RDL type thing, but he actually did an RDL or he actually did a squat or a deadlift, would we see a difference in his performance on the court? Would he score more points to use like, when we talk about mechanisms versus outcomes and things like that, it's not about like, is this putting the right amount of muscular hypertrophy or strength stimulus on his hamstrings or his quads or his adductors or something like that, but rather like, is there some relationship between this and his points or his rebounds or his wins or some statistic that actually matters for the sport? And for somebody who is as freaky as him, I suspect that there are probably a whole lot of things that you could do in the gym that would maybe not move the needle as much as maybe lifters like us would like to think because we want us, we want it to be like a lifting is so critically important. But man, freaks are freaks are going to freak at a higher level. I remember seeing this back in my swimming days. There were some swimmers, lifting was not a big part of swimming kind of training. And then gradually over time, we saw it grow and we started to see lifters, swimmers like Ryan Lochte, for example, started to get a little more popular. There are videos of him doing, you know, pulling chains around and doing tire flips and things like that in the gym and then, you know, hang cleans, which was like radical for the sport. Super, super different. My foil just took a shirt off. Yeah. But these guys were already at the top of the sport. Seemingly. Of course, some of the strength I do think help them in certain ways, but there's a lot of ways to develop strength, including using lifts that are not traditional. And so I just don't really, I don't know the value in hyperanalyzing the precise things that the absolute like people in the stratosphere of sport are doing as a way to draw any sort of conclusions about what anyone else should do. I think that once you have defined your individual training goals, then we can talk about the pros and cons of different ways to get there. But I just almost see like no external validity from what LeBron James does to what you or I or anyone else listening to this might be inclined to do as part of their own training. Yeah. Yeah, I'm inclined to agree with you. I mean, I think if you're a sports scientist, if you're a coach, right, you have to have some sort of method and central like paradigm to organize your thoughts about how you go about choosing an exercise. And so, you know, you can, there are basically two poles here. One is like specificity and the other one is like a generalized exercise. And so depending on how you approach, okay, where are we at in the season? What are we looking to develop? What are the goals of this program? You would pick, you know, something on that continuum. This is kind of like none of those things, you know? I mean, it would, if you had to, you know, place it on that continuum, it's definitely towards that generalized type approach. And I guess if I had to, you know, confabulate to throw back to that term, a reason for why this quote unquote works for him, it's kind of like maintenance muscular force production. He's like applying some force against an external resistance that is whatever, preventing him from otherwise detraining with no exposure, right, comparatively, although it is very light for him. So like, I don't know, man, weighted stretching, we could call this. Sure. Right. Yeah, exactly. But to your point, somebody definitely told him to do this, which is maybe more concerning because it's like that person either has no familiarity with the deadlift or any really hinge pattern or like any or the Olympic lifts or apparently footwear. So I'm like, how did this person get into this position? Right? Because, yeah, very, very interesting. Yeah. As always, you know, success leaves clues some of the times, but often freaks do well in spite of the stuff that they do. So like, I don't, to your point, I don't, I don't think that anybody who's aspiring to be in the NBA should be like, that's the deadlift variation that I need. If I had to pick a deadlift variation, it would, yeah, an RDL would be fine, a Rackpul would be fine, a Trapbar deadlift would be fine, you know, and some of that stuff should be done at high velocity, alternatively, and maybe this is a hot take. If you are not a barbell sport athlete, you don't have to deadlift. Like if I saw LeBron James doing like hip thrusts and like, and the caption in my perfect world is like, this is the hinge pattern that I do a few times a week. I'd be like, great, great, you're loading the body or, you know, whatever. But he doesn't need a deadlift. So yeah, yeah, you know, you mentioned that success leaves clues and it makes me think about a little bit of our approach and say clinical practice or coaching practice to the extent that we want to rely on any degree of evidence. And there's almost no situation where a single piece of evidence or a single example, or even like a case report of one person experience this thing medically or in the coaching training performance, where one single example is going to change how we do things. It's much more so an accumulation of evidence, a larger body of evidence. And so this is the same thing here to the extent that success leaves clues. I think that we tend to see it more often among in larger cohorts of high level competitors, right? Recognizing the general you know, these papers that look at, for example, Olympic level endurance athletes and their general training, that what are the patterns in their training set up their intensity distribution, their volume tendencies, things like that. Of course, there's always going to be outliers. And those are maybe the freaks who either have some aspect of their physiology that has not been defined or some genetic mutation that makes it so that some particular way works best for them. Maybe they're really good in spite of what they do theoretically, although unlikely at the highest levels of sport, or maybe it's just good enough for them to beat the rest. Right? You know, I think back, for example, you see pictures of Mark Spitz in his original Olympic swimming, the swimming, the fly race, and it is like the most horrendous butterfly technique you've ever seen. And then you fast forward a few decades. You fast forward a few decades and you see how sport has evolved and how swimmers are executing it, you know, so much better and more efficiently and lower to the water and propelling forward and not up and down and things like that. But if you had looked back at the time and critiqued his technique, people would be like, well, clearly it works. Well, this stuff is always in a state of evolution and flux, right? One way or another. And so that idea of success leave includes it's not one person doing something in a particular way, but just the general evolution of sport as competitors who are those who are most incentivized to figure out the best way to do things actually do that. Imagine if you're Steph Curry and you whatever, you're doom scrolling because like he probably does and he sees this and he goes, oh man, I got to be doing this exercise. That's the trick. Yeah. Shoot. Yeah. Anyway, so I thought it was funny. If you haven't seen this video, it's in the show notes. All right, next topic when chat GPT goes wrong. So this story is a cautionary tale of making waves across the medical community and beyond. So what happens when you ask an AI chatbot for health advice? The answer in one man's case was a three week stay in the hospital with hallucinations and paranoia. So in August of this year, a 60 year old man who was looking to cut out table salt, cut down a salt intake from his diet, he asked chat GPT for an alternative. Chat GPT reportedly suggested sodium bromide, which is still used in veterinary applications for epilepsy and dogs and cats. It's also used for some water treatments as well as processing film and by the oil and gas industry to stabilize wells. Now in medicine, sodium bromide was originally used as a sedative and an anti convulsant in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. However, its use in human medicine has declined due to concerns about toxicity. We actually have a podcast, a medical mystery case, which is no longer going to be a mystery to you if you listen to this. So maybe like episode 299. It's a good one. Just go back 15 seconds and like, neuralize yourself and then you can go listen to that episode. So in any case, the chatbot's response may have been intended for other uses, but the man took it to mean that he could use sodium bromide as a salt substitute, which he did for three months. He was admitted to the hospital with a variety of symptoms, including hallucinations, paranoia, and a claim that his neighbor was poisoning him. Doctors initially considered a psychiatric cause, but eventually diagnosed him with bromism after consulting the poison control. I mean, honestly, the fact that this took three months to get bromism is pretty impressive to me because normally it's like, oh, you started doing this, you started taking in sodium bromide at any sort of significant quantity and you're like, oh, shoot, you got the bromism. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, the convenience of AI and chat GPT, stuff like that, it's undeniable, especially for answering some questions that can be, have already been written about on the internet. But at what point does it become a liability? Like specifically, if people are using this for like self diagnosis, what are the dangers surrounding that in addition to the benefits, right? Like you can imagine somebody is just on a fact-finding mission that may be beneficial, but I don't know, do you see some harms here? Absolutely. There's no easy answer to this. It is both a convenience and a liability and it is not, there's no simple heuristic by which you can differentiate when it is which. So part of the issue, for example, is I could take a hard line and say, absolutely not, patients, people should never use these tools. You should only see a doctor, a human doctor like me, whatever the case is. But then there's going to be people who are like, well, I had this condition that nobody could really figure out after seeing multiple doctors and specialists and a lot of testing. And I spent some time reading and researching and putting stuff in and I managed to come across this diagnosis that they hadn't heard of. And when I presented it, it ended up being the correct diagnosis. And it's like, yeah, I can't argue with that. Like doctors are humans too. We have limited human brains. They have the benefit of a lot of dedicated training and experience with things. But that also means we also have biases and blind spots and things like that. And that's why medical education takes a long time. And my style of medical education also draws attention to things like the ways we think and biases and where there can be these types of blind spots and also figuring out ways to use these tools to enhance our skills and our performance and our accuracy and reduce the amount of harm that we might cause. So using these tools kind of responsibly is actually something, I mean, I've done some formal training in the past year in the use of these tools in the context of medical education and as well as in practice. So there's not an easy answer here. There is obvious risk with a patient kind of on their own using these tools without any maybe requisite background knowledge or understanding or training and then acting upon it. So I think that there's a big difference between doing this kind of research, say you come across some diagnosis or some health strategy and then you just send it and you go all in on the strategy that the large language model suggested to you compared with if he had, for example, done this and then he also had a backup of, okay, next time he chats with his doctor and he's like, look, I've been looking for strategies to improve my health. I feel like maybe for this reason or whatever that some reducing my total daily sodium intake may be beneficial. First of all, is that true? Second of all, is this a wise substitute for that? Because there are sodium substitutes for those who want to reduce or replace their sodium intake with more healthful option. This has been studied. There's some randomized trials of potassium based salt substitutes, light salt, reducing the risk of stroke and some other things like that. Not to say that everyone listen to this should go and substitute with potassium because there's some potential risks to that that need to be kind of dealt with on an individual basis. But any doctor who was, let's say, worth their salt, that was painful to say. But he goes and talks to somebody, consults with them on this. They'd be like, no, dude, don't do that. That's not a good idea. Here's a safer alternative. And he could have avoided all of this. So yeah, I think they are both a benefit and a liability and on a individual unilateral basis for untrained folks using these to make active health management decisions. I feel like that probably falls slightly more on the risk side of the spectrum than the benefit outside of very obvious issues of asking your large language model whether losing some body fat or improving your sleep would be good for you. But these sorts of kind of higher stakes decisions. I don't love people doing this unilaterally without some additional input. All right. So a couple of follow-up questions before we move on to the next part. Thing one, if this is a large language model, then presumably it's just scouring the internet, crawling the internet for stuff that people have written about related to this question. So does that mean that somebody out there or multiple people out there have published this idea like, hey, stop using table salt or use sodium bromide? Right. Like where does it come from? Exactly. Yeah. That's kind of what I'm wondering is these things are known to hallucinate and if this was more of a hallucination than anything because a lot of these will spit out linked references or like where did this come from? And so I'd be curious to go down that rabbit hole and see how it came about this if that's identifiable. But these hallucinations are definitely dangerous. I've had patients already that I work with who take their labs and they punch them into one of these things and it might give correct interpretations or it might give interpretations that are problematic. And when I read the chat models interpretation, I'm like, I can totally see how it got here. But that is actually incorrect for this patient's situation based on what I know about them. It might be that I know more about the person, I have more context, I know more of their background. This just happened to me pretty recently and I read the output of it and I was like, yeah, I see how it arrived at all these conclusions. But this is like, you know, first year, second year medical student level interpretation of these labs to the point where it's actually incorrect. And it takes a bit more experience and knowledge of this person to know how it doesn't apply to them. But it was like too late because it had already freaked the patient out. And so these things do need some expertise to work through. I'm sure these models will get better with time, but I don't know. It's a little scary sometimes. Although in other areas of my practice, I have made some use of these tools as well. So that's why it's such a messy area. There's not a clean answer of like, yes, we should be going all in on these things or no, we should never touch them and just stick with human doctors. It's like, no, I don't think that that's a realistic future. So the second thing, last thing, I swear to you, so this is the last thing I'm gonna say. If a patient asked you, Dr. Baraki, I want to cut down my salt intake. I think I'm gonna take like a sodium bromide instead. And you were like, sure, send it. That would be grounds for some sort of malpractice suit. So is chatty G gonna get, you know, Sam Sampson? Yeah, yeah. I mean, what do you think about that? Or like the person, the people who published this stuff that the language model like interpreted if it wasn't a hallucination, right? Imagine if Merkola had posted this on his website or Nicolantonio, you know, idiot surrounding sodium intake, just generally speak, maybe just idiot in general, full hate, sending hate from California. Like if you put this out there and it does cause harm, like what sort of, you know, recourses there? Yeah, I'm not having any legal knowledge or background. I don't know. I think it is a question that will at some time point, gonna need to be addressed. It reminds me of, you know, some of the legal concerns in the social media space. I believe it's called like section 230 having to do with like, are these social media platforms, are they just a platform for people to put things up? Or are they the publisher of the information? And so as a result, what sort of liability do they have? For example, if somebody decides to act on some information on there, be it, you know, some sort of attack or violence or something like that, do they have any liability or responsibility for that? Or are they just serving as a platform for people to put up whatever they want and the liability there falls on the individual? In this chatbot realm, there isn't really a clear individual that we can like lay such blame at the feet of. And so it'd be it, not that it would be, I think it will be interesting to see when this almost inevitably gets tested in the courts. If something like this happens, and I suspect that there would be just absolutely gargantuan, aggressive legal tactics and lobbying tactics and things like that on behalf of the companies to more strongly limit their liability, because if they were deemed liable, then that almost shuts down the whole enterprise because there's no way that they can realistically exert control over what these things tell people. And so that's, you know, in our, I don't know, maybe approaching dystopian internet society, that may be the way that it ends up playing out. But you're right, that it's a question that ought to be answered. I just don't know that it's going to be answered satisfactorily for like patient safety and things like that. I wonder if people will support, you know, the companies that have these large language models and like, hey, look, they can't be held liable, you know, and how many of those people do not feel the same way around vaccine manufacturers? Totally. Yeah. Interesting. Okay, next. Next topic. This is on plant-based diets and blood pressure. The American Heart Association has been in the news recently with new studies linking plant-based protein to lower blood pressure. The MESA study, which just came out, analyzed data from about 2,300 participants who were between the ages of 45 and 84 from a diverse background. It's probably one of the strengths of this study, the diversity of the individuals. All participants were free of high blood pressure or hypertension at the beginning of the study. And they completed this 120-item food frequency questionnaire at the start of the study to assess their usual dietary intake or dietary pattern. And they were followed for a median of nine years. Incident hypertension or high blood pressure was defined as a blood pressure reading of greater than 130 over 80 millimeters of mercury or the new use of a antihypertensive medication. As far as the findings, the researchers found a clear inverse relationship between plant protein consumption and hypertension, meaning that the greater amount of minimally processed plant protein sources were associated with a lower risk of developing high blood pressure. The researchers did mention the potential for a, quote, threshold effect where the benefits plateaued after a certain amount of consumption, but there was no statistically significant association between the quantity or variety of minimally processed animal protein intake and the risk of high blood pressure as well. So I thought that was an interesting finding. And finally, they also found that highly processed plant-based options were linked to a higher risk of high blood pressure. So question to you, what do you think the mechanism, the mediating mechanism is here? Do we think there's something in the plant proteins themselves that's causing this unique antihypertensive effect? Do we think this is just a reduced energy intake because people who follow a vegetarian or vegan diet tend to eat less calories by quite a substantial margin? Is there other confounding variables like, oh, you're more likely to eat, if you eat plant-based proteins, you're more likely to exercise or what, something like that? Is it the level of processing since they found those relationships? What do you think the mechanism is here? Yeah, I'm going to give a maybe unsatisfying answer and say it's very likely to be a combination of all of these things because the way that the study was designed doesn't really let you identify a particular mechanism. All of these, in other words, the results observed in this study would seem to be compatible with any or some combination of all of those mechanisms that you just described. So on one hand, you could say, well, people who, this whole healthy user bias, those who tend to eat plant-based diets tend to be healthier on average, but that does not mean that it is impossible to have a generally healthful dietary pattern that does include animal products. And I think that that's a position that we would mostly sign on to, depending on some more details in the matter of degree. But we also know that there are plant-specific compounds like what are the general category of phytochemicals that have a whole bunch of health benefits, both defined and as yet undetermined, on things like systemic inflammation and vascular health and function and insulin sensitivity and all sorts of other factors. So there's a plausible mechanism of benefit there as well. You mentioned the energy relationship. That's probably the easiest one to figure out just by looking at if that was data that was collected in the study of did those who were on the plant-based diet, did they have, say, lower levels of body fat, lower waist circumference, did they tend to lose weight if they switched their dietary patterns, et cetera. So that may or may not be as much of a factor, depending on what the actual dataset looked like. So there's some plausible evidence of, some plausible mechanism of confounding, some plausible mechanism for overall energy. I do buy that having a more plant-predominant dietary pattern is just generally more helpful in a variety of ways compared to many commonly consumed diets that include higher amounts of animal-derived food sources. Again, I don't think it's impossible for somebody to have a health promoting dietary pattern that includes some degree of animal-derived products. Now, if that is the entirety of their diet, the most extreme example being like carnivore or something like that, I think that both of us are going to stick by our position that that is not the most helpful dietary pattern, and those folks would stand to benefit greatly by introducing more and more plant-derived food sources, both plant-derived proteins as well as other plant sources of foods. So that's my take. In general, when I'm assessing a patient who has concerns over their blood pressure, who has newly elevated blood pressure, I'm taking a general dietary history on them, like 100% of the time, and then really getting a sense based on their level of self-efficacy, their readiness for behavior change, their motivation, and what are the highest yield targets that I can attack. And so, you know, it's typically going to be like, does this person consume a high amount of sugar, sweetened beverages? Do they consume a lot of alcohol? As a couple of things that I'm going to target right away, how's their sleep? What's their waste measurement? And then from there, going down the dietary quality piece and seeing what things I can substitute, not specifically because I might have evidence that like, if you substitute this food for that food, it'll lower your blood pressure, but rather we have good enough evidence to say that if we substitute this food for that food, we're going to improve the overall quality of your dietary pattern. And as a result of that, as well as many other things, we can expect some improvement in blood pressure and many other important health parameters over time. Yeah. Yeah, the biggest takeaways for me on this, the finding that a higher amount of minimally processed plant protein is generally beneficial for this particular metric is not surprising. You could replace this metric with like lipid levels, blood sugar control, whatever. Yeah, we kind of already knew that. The main interesting points here was that there was not a relationship between the intake of minimally processed animal protein, which is kind of nice to, again, another little, that fits my bias, I like that. And then also that highly processed plant proteins were associated with an increased risk of high blood pressure, which I think when people consider vegetarian or vegan options, just most folks would say, yeah, this is healthier than this other option, which is probably not true if it is highly processed, especially if there's like added sugars, added sodium, stuff like that. That would be the main point. And we'll come back to that specific question about processing in just a few questions. All right, next question, we're really doing some trigger warning type stuff here. Sure, talk about sex testing in sports, yet again. So gender eligibility in elite sports has been a contentious and complex issue for years, but a major shift is underway. World athletics and world boxing are leading the charge by implementing mandatory one-time genetic testing for female athletes to detect the presence of the SRY gene. Now, the SRY gene, which stands for sex determining region Y gene, is a specific gene on the Y chromosome. It is a critical factor for male sex development in a developing embryo while you're in utero. If you've got XY chromosomes, typically the SRY gene triggers the formation of testes, the testes then go on to produce hormones like testosterone, which lead to the development of male characteristics such as increased muscle mass and strength later on when people go through puberty. So this move is being hailed by some as necessary, a necessary step to protect the female category, despite it being called the women's category in most sports, but that's inside, while others warn of the potential for discrimination and harm. So the question is, is this like a good fit to determine eligibility for the women's divisions? Just a brief history before I get you to weigh in, I am interested in your take on this. We did this before, not we like you and I like went around testing all the athletes, but like in sport this was done, 1996 to 2000, the IAAF, which is now the World Athletics and the IOC, the International Olympic Committee, decided to use a genetic test for the SRY gene. They would swab people's cheeks to distinguish them from male from female. And this was used at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, where eight of the 3300 female athletes failed the test. So they were found to have an SRY portion, although all were allowed to compete as women. Now in the year 2000, the IOC decided to abandon this testing, this universal testing, in favor of a quote, suspicion-based approach where athletes suspected of being men competing in the women's division would be tested. This was mostly done by like the physical appearance, like, oh, your shoulders are too broad or breast development isn't what we would expect, stuff like that. So this suspicion-based approach ultimately led to officials subjecting athletes like South Africa's Caster Semenya to testing and public scrutiny. Now she's a South African runner who dominated the 800-meter distance on the track and she was born with what's known as DSD or Difference in Sexual Development, Disorders of Sexual Development, which means that she's got an X-Y genotype but was legally registered and identifies as female. Basically this intensified after the 2016 Olympics in Rio, where the World Athletics introduced a rule requiring DSD athletes to reduce their testosterone levels in order to compete in certain events, which required Semenya to basically take a medication to lower her testosterone levels and she refused to follow that, arguing it was a human rights infringement and it was discriminatory. There's a long legal battle, including a challenge at the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which she ultimately was barred from competing. So she effectively missed her entire, most of her career due to this. So with this new policy, if an athlete's test is negative, meaning they don't have an S-R-Y gene, they're eligible to compete in the female category. However, a positive test indicates the presence of an S-R-Y gene, which basically means that they cannot compete in the female division. So what do you think about this? Is this like a good move, bad move, just one or the other, binary? Few things are. I truly don't. I don't think I've ever arrived at a point where I would say I feel very confident and have very strongly held opinions on this. And this is for a lot of reasons, but we've talked a little bit about this before as far as how sports are arbitrary. They are made up and every sporting organization gets to decide how it wants to set up its rules and its policies and its divisions and things like that. And so if a sporting organization says, here is going to be the way that we divide competitors up, we put them head to head in this way versus that way, the organizations can do that. I am not sure that this is a fundamental human rights issue. And I'm not saying that to say that it isn't. I don't have expertise in this realm of human ethics  and human rights and things like that. And so, like for example, in powerlifting, if one federation did this, you can go compete in another. Of course, that's probably less of an option at the highest level of sport on an international level for track and field and things like that, which is probably the counterargument to that as well as with this individual go. I also find it interesting from the more kind of biological standpoint at how much we fixate on particular deterministic variables here. And that's also because in the same way that sports can set up divisions arbitrarily, these choices are also to some extent arbitrary in the sense that there are a lot of different biological variables that have impact on human performance, and we are choosing to stratify or divide people along very particular ones, like for example, their blood testosterone levels. We don't have different Olympic endurance events stratified by what is your baseline hemoglobin level, which is also something that is going to be heavily influenced by all sorts of biological variables. We don't have the hemoglobin over 15 grams per liter division, the 10 to 15 grams per liter division, and then the race for those who are naturally or for whatever reason, more anemic, just as an example. We're stratifying people based on their pulmonary function test performance or something like that. Just not to push back because you are correct. We no longer do that. However, prior to the introduction of the biological passport in 2002, there actually was in some sports an upper level on hemoglobin, like the UCI previously had a limit on this. They were like, look, you cannot compete if your hemoglobin levels are higher than this. But anyway, we no longer do that, and you're exactly right. We don't have like, oh, if your arm is this long, you can't be a thrower or a pole, something like that. We're making these arbitrary distinctions. That's the point. It's not actually shocking to me that a sporting organization did that. It's also illustrating how arbitrary this is that it could have been hemoglobin. It could have been testosterone. It could have been pulmonary function testing. It could be arm length, limb length, mobility, metrics for certain other sports, whatever the case is. That's why I'm like, I think that it's almost like we have this ecosystem of sports that are going to trial a whole bunch of different strategies and see which ones, quote, unquote, work to achieve whatever aims they have, which ones end up being more trouble than they're worth, which ones have unintended consequences, which ones are a disaster, and it's kind of like this continuous process of evolution over time. I don't know, again, I'd be curious as to maybe your thoughts or if there are experts in this realm. I think you interviewed Roger Pike before on this, who he has a lot more kind of knowledge of this space. But is it generally thought of that this level of participation, is it a human right to be able to do this thing? I'm like, I'm not so sure about that, even though it doesn't feel great to exclude people or potentially to recategorize people based on these things. But again, we're choosing to participate in a kind of a made up endeavor here. So I'm not sure what the right answer lies. Yeah, I definitely don't know what the right answer is. So I have a few thoughts on this. Thing one, on the one hand, I kind of want to applaud World Athletics for actually making some sort of policy relating to eligibility in particular divisions because most sports, if you look at their rulebook, they do not have these, which presents a problem when you run into these. You could call this like a fringe case because look, in the wide world of sports, in the women's division in particular, this is a very small proportion of athletes, although it is overrepresented compared to the general population as far as individuals with DSD, disorders of sexual development. But having a policy, even if it's the wrong one, you need to have something there. It can't just be like, yeah, we'll sign up. You sign up for whatever division you want and it will shake it out later. That's probably not going to work. But on the other hand, I do have concerns about using this SRY gene. I think it's fine for determining genotype. That's pretty good at that. But as far as eliminating women with DSD from participating, period, I don't know that that's the right policy, mainly because the connection between performance in women with DSD who do happen to have a Y chromosome or at least a portion, the SRY portion, that's not been well established. It's not like, look, if you've got this SRY gene and you are a woman with DSD, your performance level is on average 50% higher. If that were true, okay, well, look, I see your point now. We have good evidence, robust evidence, and from a fairness standpoint, I kind of understand that. That said, if you look at the Olympic Charter, they do say that, look, everybody should be able to participate in sports. But so maybe then we need a third division, for example. That's an alternative policy. I think the reason why this was chosen is because there's a presumed connection between the SRY gene, testosterone levels, and then subsequent performance. But even the relationship between testosterone levels and performance in both women and men is not super clear-cut. Yeah. And in fact, I thought it was interesting that the guy who discovered the SRY gene, Dr. Andrew Sinclair, I believe he's out of Australia, he said, mate, this is overly simplistic. That's my worst Australian accent. Yeah, not great. But he said that and I'm like, look, the dude who discovered this gene is telling you, like, hey, maybe this isn't the best policy. So I don't know. I think they could have released this in a different manner and said, look, we're trying this, we're going to collect data, we're workshopping this. Yes, we did this before and it was a unsatisfactory, but we're going to do it differently this time. We promise. And to your point earlier, there were some methods that were very bad. The naked parades previously, just, hey, look, if you're a woman, you got to strip down naked, you got to walk in front of this panel of male physicians and they're going to inspect your genitalia as you walk by to make sure you're a chick. Yikes. Yeah, we've done, we, you know, again, sports science community, medical community has done some things in the past that don't make, make sense. So I'm not sure this policy, it was not worse than that, but I also don't know that it's the right policy. And my second concern is that resource allocation, like these tests on average run $100, $150 U.S. You could argue the money's better spent on fighting, doping, increasing access to sport for participation, things that, or like coach abuse, that sort of stuff, mental health. Like there's a bunch of places you could spend this money. So kind of like an opportunity cost consideration. And then there's like an ethical consideration as well about outing athletes with DSD. Like why do we know anything about Cass or Samenya's genotype, you know, and testosterone levels? It's like, we shouldn't know that. Anyway, no easy answers here. And so people say it's very simple, just do this. I'm like, I don't think you've thought deeply about this, which, yeah, maybe ask ChatGPT for some thoughts here. All right, a couple questions left here, a couple topics left. The surprising role of body weight and mortality. So we've been told for a long time that being overweight is a significant risk factor for early death, but a new large scale study out of Denmark is challenging this long held belief, suggesting that being too thin might actually be deadlier than being overweight. That's the headline. All right. Researchers use health data to examine the relationship between BMI and mortality in about 85,000 individuals. This population was about 81% female. And the median age at baseline was 66 years old. During the follow up, 8% of the subjects were about 7,555 individuals died. And the underweight category, so those with the BMI less than 18.5 were almost three times more likely to have died than individuals with the reference range BMI. And that reference range was 22.5 to 25 for BMI. Those with the BMI of 40 or above had about a twice, a two times increased risk of death compared to that reference population. So overall, this is like a U shaped curve when plotting BMI against mortality, meaning those with the lowest and highest BMI were at the highest risk of death. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is it really true that being too thin, having an underweight BMI is actually more risky than carrying too much body fat? Yeah. This is not new. It's unclear to me how this is groundbreaking here. I think that if you speak with anyone who sees patients, in general, my level of concern over somebody whose BMI is less than 18 is always greater than that of somebody whose BMI is 40. I see lots of both categories. And it's something that I don't even consciously think through anymore. It's like I walk in the room and I see the person whose BMI is 18 or less. And even if I didn't know their BMI, I'm like immediately much more concerned that this person is going to have a bad outcome from whatever I might be seeing them for or outside of that context. Whereas people with a BMI of 40, 45, 50, they might be ill in their own ways or maybe don't yet have any diagnosed medical conditions or complications. And I don't feel great about their general health status and prognosis, but it's still intuitively as oftentimes not as high a degree of concern as the person who is what we'll call cacactic or super, super, super thin skin and bones wasted away. And I think that's the point of this is that it is most likely at these extremes, not the BMI itself, but rather how they got there and why they got there. And so the reasons why somebody gets to a BMI of 16 are often more ominous, dangerous, life threatening compared with the reasons and mechanisms that a person might get their BMI up to 35 or to 40 or to 45 patients with advanced cancer, tuberculosis, chronic inflammatory diseases, wasting syndromes, HIV, AIDS, heart failure, chronic kidney disease, all the kinds of things that I see on a day to day basis in their most advanced stages lead to this chronic wasting syndrome. There's a lot of oftentimes chronic inflammation going on that can lead to appetite suppression. These patients have no interest or desire to eat. And in a tiny fraction of people who are this then they might have eating disorders, anorexia, which is actually one of the most dangerous, highest risk, highest mortality psychiatric conditions in existence is anorexia nervosa as an example, not to say that that's the most common reason why I might see somebody with a BMI in that range, but that's kind of like on the differential, so to speak, for a BMI that low. So it's much like many other conditions where we've talked about their relationships and how we interpret them. It matters to some extent how you got there rather than the finding itself. We see similar findings, for example, when you look when you stratify people's blood creatinine levels, their blood levels of how their kidneys are functioning, you know, a lot of people fixate on very, very high creatinine levels as an indicator that your kidneys are not working very well. Maybe you have advanced chronic kidney disease, maybe you have end stage kidney disease and you need dialysis. Those are all very, you know, dangerous conditions and high risk of death associated with those. Even if you get put on dialysis, your prognosis is not like miraculously better. It's still a concerning condition. Fewer people recognize the risk, health risks and mortality risk associated with very, very low creatinine levels. So creatinine level of 0.1, for example, gets my attention of like this person has almost no muscle mass as indicated by this blood creatinine level, and I'm generally more concerned that they have a higher risk here. Now what's the solution? Is the solution to give them creatinine to make the creatinine higher? Or to, right? Just like, you know, these other patients who have a very low BMI is the solution just to like force feed them to get their BMI up. That will probably not return their risk of death back to baseline, but rather it is more likely to be related to whatever underlying condition they have. So treating their tuberculosis or their cancer or their AIDS is more likely to benefit their risk of death in the same way that the person with the very low blood creatinine level making the creatinine look pretty isn't going to be what helps them, but rather improving their, you know, level of lean body mass is more likely to help them to the extent that that's realistic or possible for the person. Yeah, you don't need to buff the chart, but I look at this as a similar way that like on the long term, right? Having too low of a BMI is not really a concern because that's not a long term problem. That's a short term problem because just because the mortality does increase so rapidly, mainly due to, as you said, the process by which people got there, right? It's mostly some sort of underlying condition that has moved a person from a, quote, normal BMI or even overweight or obese BMI into this underweight category. So that short term change, that's, that yes, is very, very scary. It gets my attention compared to somebody who's had an elevated BMI for a long period of time. That's more of a chronic risk of exposure to excess body fat. And so, yeah, I don't think that's like a, I don't think it's likely to improve somebody's lifespan having too much body fat, but in the short term, yes, somebody moving down into that underweight category is very, very concerning, mostly due to the underlying process that got them there. Yeah, I don't think that having like too much body fat is now suddenly like a protective factor. It's more just an association that you see because you're not picking up how people got to these various end points. Yeah, totally. Yeah, I would hesitate to make a ton out of this because a lot of folks maybe whose BMI is elevated because they legitimately are carrying a bit of excess body fat, they might, you know, look at this and say, oh, well, I'm in the optimal, optimal range. Meanwhile, my waist measurement is, you know, 40 inches or something like that. And there's actually room for improvement on that. No, but I got all this muscle mass, dude. Come on. Yeah, probably not. Yeah. Okay. Two questions. One is about the impact of ultra process foods. We're back to this yet again. The FDA and USDA are making headlines with a request for information for a federally recognized definition for ultra processed foods. On September 9th, the MAHA Commission released the Make Our Children Healthy Again Strategy report which outlines a broad set of proposed updates to federal nutrition and food safety policy, one of these policies to come up with a definition for ultra processed foods. To date, most studies, most researchers, most public health organizations use the nolva food classification system. It's a name. It's not an acronym. And this separates food into four different groups. Group one is unprocessed or minimally processed foods like fruit, vegetables, eggs, meat, milk, water, et cetera. Whereas group four, these are termed ultra processed foods. The ones that use many ingredients, including food additives, ingredients rarely used in home food preparation and industrialized processing to improve palatability of the food tastes and shelf life for the food. So cereals and a number of other sweets, desserts, et cetera, would all classify as ultra processed foods, although you would also lump in whey protein powder in there or some versions of Greek yogurt, for example. So the question you, Dr. Baraki, is coming up with a federally recognized definition for ultra processed foods important? And if so, why? Yes. Oh, okay, cool. Maybe we'll get on here. I think it's super important because we've talked about this a ton before as it relates to our options for addressing the general prevalence and increasing rates of obesity in the population, both ranging among children all the way through adulthood, that we have this interaction between people, all the things that make them individual, including their genetics and their surrounding environment. And those are fundamentally our two levers that we can work on. And at the level of the person, we can work on behavior change and lifestyle habits, and then we can also use individual targeted medical treatments, be it GLP-1 agonist, other anti-obesity medicines, metabolic bariatric surgery, et cetera, to try to address things at the level of the individual, but they are still living in an environment. And that environment is increasingly toxic, shall we say, as it relates to promoting or setting the person up for behaviors that are more likely to lead to the development of obesity and its complications. And so in an ideal situation, we would be working on both levers. I think historically there has been much more reluctance to work on the environment because what does that even mean? Who works on the environment? Do we expect companies, food companies, restaurants to voluntarily make their food less palatable or less appealing to people so that they will naturally consume less? Obviously that's never going to happen. And so to the extent that we want the food industry to reform in some way, if we want food reformulation, if we want changes in the food environment, the only way that happens is from the state. And so if we're looking at government level regulation and things like that. And so, and then, obviously, any form or attempt at government-led regulation is going to be immediately steeped in legal battles because that's how we do things in the United States is tons and tons and tons of lawyering and legal battles back and forth. And so that relies, that necessitates clear distinct definitions on which we can attach our laws and regulations and things like that if we're going to go down that road. And so absence a definition to the extent that you want to modify anything about the food environment with respect to these quote unquote ultra-processed foods. Yeah, having a very clear distinct definition is going to be absolutely essential. And so that's going to be a lot harder to do than it might initially seem. A lot of people might just take like, I know it when I see it type definition, but that's not good enough to survive the legal battles that are going to happen. So it needs to be something that is very clearly and distinctly defined. And I don't think it's going to be a perfect fit. I think there are going to be gaps. There are going to be things missed. There's going to be what we'll call false positives and false negatives very likely in these types of definitions. And there's very likely to be unintended consequences. So this is going to be a messy process. It's going to take a long time if it even happens at all. I also have my share of questions or skepticism about the kind of overall interest of this administration in carrying this through. I think that you described this particular commission that has its own thoughts and agenda, which oftentimes are not entirely based on evidence, but a lot of times based on a lot of deeply held beliefs and convictions that may not entirely be supported. And then that is situated within a broader administrative context of not being terribly in favor of aggressive regulation. And so how that ends up playing out, I struggle to be super optimistic that we're going to overhaul the nation's nutrition, food system, children's health and obesity trajectory during this administration. But I'm open to seeing what happens starting with needing a definition and then going from there to see what steps are realistic or feasible from a governmental standpoint. Yeah. I think the way I view having this definition, how it would work is that it would look, if you buy this criteria, are producing an ultra-processed food and putting it on the market, that maybe there's either some sort of tax associated with that or some sort of, you're incentivized to not do that. Right. If the idea is we reduce intake of ultra-processed foods will improve health of the community. And then you have to come up with, all right, well, what is the definition of an ultra-processed food? And so now you're like, is it just foods with added sugar? Or is it foods with added sugar, added sodium, added fats? Or is it all of those things plus some sort of manipulation of the mouth feel of the food? Right. You could go down. You could come up with as little as one criteria, all the way to hundreds of criteria. And then food manufacturers are then going to weave around that, ultimately to probably increase profits under the current model. So yeah, I think it's important, but it's going to be challenging to come up with a satisfactory definition, especially now that Kevin Hall is no longer on the case. Yes. That's going to be a problem. So we'll see what happens here. I did have this idea. All right. So you're familiar in healthcare with the idea of a capitation model, right? So if you're not familiar with this, instead of a fee-for-service model, most of healthcare uses that, there's this alternative model where, look, the provider, the provider, the physicians in this particular case, would receive some sort of set payment. And effectively, if there are issues with them providing high-quality care, right, they end up using way more resources than would be predicted or whatever, some of that can get doctor or deducted or whatever. What if that was the case for food manufacturers? The government identified, look, you're the top 20 food manufacturers for the food supply in the United States. We're going to pay you X every year, right? So how did you do these things for it? You improved the quality of the food and whatever, but you can't raise prices so food insecurity potentially goes up and you know, whatever. And you got to make these things tasty so people actually eat it like whatever. Until you start doing weird stuff, at that point, we're going to start finding you. Is that it? I don't think it would be very popular. I don't think anyone would go for it, but I thought like, what an interesting model that would be because then they're not incentivized to just sell more product. They're incentivized to put the best product on the market and have people actually consume it so they don't get dinged throughout the year. I don't know, what do you think about that? Is that crazy? Yeah, dude, that's crazy. Fair enough. I think there's some fundamental kind of American socio-political understanding here that's kind of leading to some deep down discomfort at that idea. I think the number of unintended consequences from a strategy like that would be massive. And it might be both unintended, but it might be like very predictable consequences from people with more economics expertise. But yeah, that sounds crazy. All right, Capitation Model, Barbell Medicine Template win. Yeah, all right. Last topic we're going to talk about, we're talking about the rock. There's been some recent controversies surrounding Dwayne The Rock Johnson's weight loss with speculation flying around on social media and in the news, the conversation was sparked after he appeared at recent film festivals with a noticeably leaner physique for his upcoming role as MMA fighter Mark Kerr in the movie The Smashing Machine. Great title. Cool, by the way. Yeah. Johnson has since addressed the weight loss, explaining that it was a deliberate transformation for his role in The Smashing Machine and a new role where he'll play a whimsical and eccentric 70-something-year-old. He attributes the change to a new diet and more endurance-focused workout regimen to embody the character of Mark Kerr. He says he lost about 60 pounds. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, how did he do it? Did he just stop using the pharmaceutical enhancements that are likely resulting in his previous physique, although he has denied that he's taken anything since as an adult? He said, oh, in my previous years, sure, but no longer. Was he taking Wigowi or Zempik or Zepbound or just training alone, just endurance stuff? Obviously, neither of us really know. I think that this harkens back to some extreme examples of movie transformations. Of course, the one that comes to mind most immediately is Christian Bale's transformation from when he was on one hand in the machinist and he weighed 120 pounds and lived on a can of tuna and an apple a day. That must have been absolutely horrendous and miserable at the time. All the way up to the other end of the spectrum when he's played roles where he actually carried a lot of body fat for various things. I think one memorable one, I think, was when he played Dick Cheney in Vice. That was also an excellent movie as well as a couple others. And so I'm thinking about if you or I were in that scenario, if we happen to be actors and we needed to be able to manipulate our body composition a ton and you had access to really any of these things, for the rock's prior roles where he needed to be a behemoth of a man and needed to be lean and muscular and things like that. Pretty tough to argue that there were no antibiotics involved in that process, which I don't particularly care about as it relates to somebody doing acting for movies. That's a different world than in competitive sports where things are tested, for example, and things like that, as setting aside the legality or illegality of these things. More interesting idea is with respect to the GLP-1 aspect, because I suspect that Christian Bale was living in absolute misery that whole time when he was preparing for the machinist role. Just, you know, you must be ravenously hungry. And that's something that can just erase that. It can markedly reduce the suffering associated with something like that. And so, you know, on a very individual kind of physiologic level, it depends on his response to energy deficits and how much the hunger and the appetite end up being an issue. If I were in his shoes and you had the means and the resources and you needed to get down to a certain weight or certain degree of leanness, you could do it without these meds and be potentially miserable and hungry all the time, which for me would be particularly tough because I have a very difficult time falling asleep if I have an inkling of hunger, much less like ravenously hungry. So, yeah, I would totally do it. Use these tools at my disposal to achieve the necessary target physique and body composition for the movie role. And training certainly is going to play a role, but I don't think that's particularly difficult for someone like him who's been training for his whole life at this point. And then the rest is just bonus. What do you think? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, so the idea that this was just a training alone endurance focus workout, so I'm like, nah, because you think of the size of Dwayne Johnson, the size of the rock compared to like an IFBB pro, you know, bodybuilder or whatever and like how they get in shape for a show. And then the whole look, if you switch to doing a lot more cardio, less lifting, would you lose some muscle mass during that process as you lose weight? Sure, but not 60 pounds, my friend. So that seems unlikely, potentially contributory, sure, from like an energy expenditure standpoint, but definitely not the main factor here. And similarly, when people are like, oh, he just came off the anabolic, off the steroids. And I'm like, you're telling me that this man with an incredibly busy schedule is somehow immune to all of the side effects of coming off of all anabolics, the insomnia, the fatigue, lots of muscle mass loss, increase in body fat, you know, potentially psychiatric conditions that are associated with that lull when you come off before your body hopefully kicks back into gear. Seems highly unlikely. The doses might have gone down. The regimen might have changed, but the idea that he, oh, I just stopped and this is what happens, particularly in short order, unlikely. I would suspect, again, given the access, it wouldn't be, I wouldn't be surprised if you, you know, was on a particular dose of the GLP-1 receptor agonist or combination medication just to deal with the hunger and make things more palatable to use another terrible pun, mainly because it's like, why do you need to suffer? Yeah, nobody cares. Yeah. And that's kind of something I've been saying recently when asked. I'm like, I don't necessarily care if people want to use these things recreationally to like lose weight. Like you don't get a gold star for like, you know, it being a worse experience for you. But more in the last thing, just quickly, are there any impacts on society from this sort of thing? I mean, you got to think he had particular roles that he was selected for due to his size that think of like, you know, all of the actions, smash them up, fast and furious, whatever, the rundown, go so on and so forth. It's like, yeah, you're supposed to be this big hulking, you know, G.I. Joe type, type character. And so you have a particular body you need to fit into and that has an impact on society and what they expect. But now you're going to be considered for more roles as a, you know, a lighter individual, Batista, the same thing. Yes. He's done another one that came to mind in the same way. Yeah. And it's like, I actually don't know because yours, you've almost been typecast as a particular type of actor already. I mean, I don't know anything about, you know, casting folks otherwise, but I'm just thinking I'm like, imagine there's like, it's like a drama, you know, or love, you know, romcom and the rockets cast is like a, you know, nerdy kind of empath or something like that. Seems highly unlikely to me. But yeah, I don't know. Does this change the way people view this maybe hyper muscularity sort of thing in your opinion? Yeah. This reflects any sort of more generalized like social trend. But you know, I remember when we were getting into the lifting world, do you remember what was his name? Justin Lysik's website, 70s big. Yeah. 70s big. Yeah. That was a very entertaining resource back then, but there is this kind of more at this point, it does feel a little bit more like historic glorification. And this is outside of like the highest level competitive bodybuilding scene because still at the highest levels of competitive bodybuilding, you see the freakiest physique that are looking more and more alien each year that that goes on, it seems. But if that's what is incentivized, then so be it. But that's not necessarily what's reflected in broader society. But this is interesting that things are kind of evolving in this direction. It also feels like there might be some evolution in that just in the training world at this point outside of people trying to get as huge as possible. Again.  and outside of competitive bodybuilding, that there's a lot more people, I don't know, maybe this is just within our bubble, but leaning into conditioning a little bit more and not necessarily aiming for those kind of maximalist physiques, or really on either end of the spectrum. So I hesitate to speculate on whether this is a general, more broad societal trend, but I do think that people at that level of social popularity, like Bautista, like The Rock, things like that, if more of them continue to do that, then that's the kind of thing that does percolate more into society and pop culture and things like that, and define the trends and what sorts of physiques and things like that people are seeking with their training and activity, where maybe at one point in the past people were more like, I remember hearing a lot about the Brad Pitt fight club look that people were looking for, which is quite skinny in that look, versus massive like The Rock in many of his prior roles or Bautista, and now kind of maybe a little healthier in between potentially, I don't know. Yeah, did you ever watch, what was it, Beer Fest? Gunther is one of the biggest bodybuilders ever, like I think it's offseason, pushed into the low 300s or whatever, and he's still just huge, but he's cast there to be this big German drinking machine, and I'm like, cool, I want to be that big and something. I don't know. Yeah, I think you're right. Like, I don't know, it wouldn't surprise me if The Rock ends up doing like a high rocks just to like lean into that. Sure, that'd be cool. And did you have a favorite wrestler, like WWE or at that point, WWF wrestler growing up? Oh, I was a kid for sure. That's fine, maybe we'll bleep that out so people don't know. Rick Flair is obviously my guy. Sure, yeah. Just, can we get a woo to sign off? You got a woo for me? Woo! That's right, all right, well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning, and strength and conditioning to modern medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on the fourth episode of the rundown, where we bring you the latest headlines in medicine, fitness, nutrition, and sports. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: The Trial Of Big Food [inCEbKyWYwg].txt ===

 aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop environment itself become the primary barrier to health for most people. Today, we're dissecting the addiction claim, the data on how our food environment actually has changed over the last 50 years, and giving you the Barbell Medicine verdict on the trial of big food. Here's maybe the most striking part of the story. You probably haven't heard about it yet. As of early 2026, while legal trade journals and local San Francisco outlets are buzzing, the national news cycle has been pretty quiet outside of some cursory reporting. I'll leave you to speculate why this might be, but today, we're breaking the silence. To help me do that, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing okay. Intrigued by this story as well. Kicking off the New Year strong with a back tweak that started immediately right at the first week of the year, but we're working through it, and we'll see what happens. I was wondering why I was feeling strong. There you go. It's just like a balance of power. Now, for the listeners at home, if you've read Michael Moss's book, Hooked, which I believe I recommended some time ago, because I think I read it about 18 months ago. It's a really good read. He does a very good job at reporting on how the food environment has changed and maybe why. He basically drew a roadmap for a prosecutor, maybe an enterprising, aggressive prosecutor to follow, and looks like somebody did. So we're going to follow the details of this case because this is about to break wide open, and we'll see what happens. So we have to understand that for the last 30 to 50 years, Big Food has been winning in court by using the personal responsibility defense. They basically argue if you are overweight, it is because you made a choice. For example, in a 2002 case, Pellman versus McDonald's, that case failed because they relied on consumer protection laws regarding failure to warn consumers about possible dangers, among others. Judges typically dismiss cases like this by stating that since the calories and ingredients are on the label, the consumer is responsible for the outcome. But San Francisco is trying to flip the script. Instead of suing on behalf of one person, the city is suing on behalf of the public. They're claiming that these companies have created a public nuisance, and this is a massive legal shift. Now, we're not lawyers here, so I actually did phone a friend to try to get some input here. So this is the same strategy that was used to break big tobacco in the 90s and the opioid manufacturers more recently. It moves the argument away from, did you choose to eat this, to did these companies knowingly create a toxic environment that has cost the city, in this case, billions in healthcare. It's the first municipality to sue major manufacturers. So Coca-Cola, PepsiCo, General Mills, Kraft Heinz, et cetera, under this public nuisance statute. Now, under California law, a public nuisance is anything which is injurious to health, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or neighborhood. So by using this statute, the city doesn't have to prove that one person was tricked into eating a cookie. They only have to prove that the industry's collective behavior has created a health crisis, so like obesity, diabetes, and heart disease. And it's so pervasive that it interferes with the public's right to a healthy environment and costs the city billions in healthcare. Now, this may sound familiar, depending on how old you are when you're listening to this, because in the 90s, the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement was achieved precisely because states stopped suing on behalf of individual smokers and started suing for the public cost of treating smoking-related illnesses. The San Francisco lawsuit uses the exact same logic for metabolic disease. They also cite in the court proceedings the recent opioid litigation, so like the 2019 Johnson & Johnson ruling in Oklahoma. As you know, Dr. Baraki, cities and states have successfully used public nuisance claims against opioid manufacturers. The courts found that aggressively marketing a known addictive substance created a nuisance that the public, not just the individual user, had to pay for. And what's interesting to me is that the core economic argument here is that big food has been privatizing the profits while externalizing the costs. They make billions, basically due to subsidized crops, and they engineer a bliss point, which we'll talk about later, in their foods that drive overconsumption. But the public has been paying the price. And the city argues that local governments are the ones stuck with the astronomical healthcare costs. They're fitting the bill for type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and so on. Now, Austin, you and I spent a lot of time talking about behavior change and self-efficacy. And when you look at the legal parallels between cigarettes, opioids, and these ultra-processed foods, do you think the medical community has been too slow to acknowledge that for many of our patients, choice is being subverted by a carefully designed toxic food environment? Or do you worry that this legal theory overshoots the biological reality of how food actually works? Yeah, great topic for discussion. I think this is a deeply asymmetrical relationship that you've laid out here. We, as you said, big fans of self-efficacy and promoting healthful behavior change among people, but that's the extent of our power in this, again, deeply asymmetric relationship. And so we do have to be kind of honest, realistic, and based in the evidence around what food practices look like, what eating practices look like, how this whole process plays out. And so, you know, there was the original theory of this is just personal choice. People are free to go about their day-to-day, whether at the grocery store, wandering around their house with their pantry, their fridge, and just deliberately, consciously, rationally choosing every morsel that they end up consuming. Well, it turns out that there's a lot more of this, what we'll call more automatic eating behavior. There's a lot of biological contributors that are less within our conscious control than we would like. And so, you know, I do tons of weight management related medicine, and I have these conversations with patients all the time. And it's less me telling them this and more them telling me about their experience that directly reflects, you know, how much control do they feel they have? And it might be that they have some short-term control. I can choose to do this thing for a period of time, but longer term, the biology seems to win out. And so that's kind of reflective of the fact that many of our day-to-day behaviors and activities, especially around food, are not nearly as conscious rational choices as we like to think. They're more these subconscious outputs that are kind of automated in some way. They are responding to environmental cues and like nudges, if you will, including what's available in our environment. And then, of course, that aspect of sensory engineering that you kind of allude to with the way that these food companies put these products together to really just light up certain aspects of our brain and make it even easier for it to be an automatic behavior to reach for that over something that might be more health promoting because they have much more appeal kind of packed into their product. And this is kind of what's been termed the so-called bliss point of that like kind of perfect nirvana bite that they're trying to engineer to keep people coming back. And interestingly, it's not so blissful that you immediately get satisfied by that one thing. It's supposed to be this like moment of bliss that is so transient that it wants to keep you coming back over and over and over again. So I think that the obviously, as you alluded to us not being lawyers, the legal aspect of this is something I'm a little bit more reticent to comment confidently on. But I think that if we tie it back to the underlying biology here, there's a lot less of the oversimplistic kind of simple personal choice narrative than the food companies, lawyers would like there to be. Yeah. And I think people are going to hear us say that, you know, hey, look, most of your food related practices are the result of subconscious sort of integrations of not only your cultural conditioning, but what's in your current environment, current, you know, sensorium. People will say, well, look, we're just arguing for like hard determinism. Free will is a myth and whatever. And people are like, so just no agency or what? It's like, no, no, you have some free will here. You do. But we have to move past this binary free will versus determinism. I think a better framework is probabilistic automaticity. And we can draw a little parallel here to your training environment. So think of your Dr. Baraki here. You got a home gym, you got a rack, you got a bar, you got some plates. The probability of Dr. Baraki hitting his workout is high. All of the behavioral levers, if you will, are moved in his favor. He doesn't have to pack a bag, doesn't have to fight traffic or wait for a squat rack. It's right there. Still has to choose to lift the bar. But the environment has made that choice the path of least resistance or at least lower resistance. Now imagine the opposite. The commercial gym after work, the first Monday of the new year, the GPS says it's going to take you 30 minutes to get to the gym due to traffic. And when you get to the gym, the parking lot's full. So you got to park up the street and hoof it to get in. Then when you're there, all the squat racks are taken full of people doing weird stuff they saw on TikTok. Plus, you got to walk past a row of massage chairs, a juice bar selling an 800 calorie recovery shake, and a wall of TVs designed to distract you. Oh, and by the way, you got to be home soon to eat dinner, prep for tomorrow, and get to bed on time. Now your free will is telling you to lift, but the environment is throwing in all these roadblocks to nudge you towards a lower effort, higher cost choice, skipping the workout. Now imagine if these roadblocks were ever present, ubiquitous in your environment, and precisely engineered to know just how to throw you off your game. Probabilistic automaticity means that while you can make the right choice, the industry has spent billions of dollars making sure that statistically most people won't, and you probably won't all the time either. They haven't taken away your free will, they've just made the healthy choice more expensive or more costly in terms of cognitive effort, not actually a little price, and they make the ultra process choice free or lower cost. And that's the perfect segue into the actual data, because when we talk about the environment being rigged, we aren't just speaking metaphorically. We have the numbers to prove how the terrain has changed in the past few decades. So when the city of San Francisco calls big food a nuisance, they're effectively describing a toxic food environment. And I think we should be clear about what that means. Your food environment isn't just what's in your pantry, it's the combination of availability, availability, affordability, convenience, and promotion within your immediate community, usually defined as like a one mile radius around your home or place of work. But this is actually expanding because it's no longer just what's in your immediate vicinity. With the rise of delivery apps, which is now a $30 billion a year industry, the food environment has expanded digitally. Nearly two thirds of Americans now have high calorie ultra process nuisances available at the touch of a button 24 seven, which has fundamentally changed the effort to reward ratio that used to influence human eating behavior. It's far easier now to get a high calorie meal delivered right to your door with just a few flicks of the screen. Now, if we look at the period between 1977 and the early 2000s, the average adult's daily energy intake increased by over 500 calories per day. Now that shift correlates almost perfectly with the rise of ultra processed foods, which now make up an estimated 70% of the U.S. food supply. And besides just the processing of the food actually changing, portion sizes have swelled. Since the 1970s, the American hamburger and soda have grown two to five times in size. We have cookies on the market that exceed the FDA's established portion sizes by 700%. And the portion size has important implications on how many calories people consume. Research shows that when you double a portion size, people spontaneously eat about 35% more calories, not just because they decided to, but because the automatic part of the brain doesn't register the extra energy when the food matrix is processed this heavily. So if you believe that the obesity epidemic is a failure of willpower or intelligence, you have to answer a very difficult question. Did the American population suddenly become less disciplined or significantly dumber since the 1970s? Did we experience a massive nationwide genetic mutation in character over the last 50 years? Of course not. Human willpower and intelligence have not meaningfully changed in the last five decades, but what has changed is the environment. We're the same biological organisms that we were in the 70s, but we are now living in a food environment designed for our pleasure. And so the results are predictable. Now, Austin, how widely accepted do you think the role of the food environment is amongst clinicians and also the public? I think there's a lot of variation here. And to some extent, it depends on who you talk to. This is definitely a topic that has become more well-recognized recently and say what you will about, you know, some of the recent political movements in the health space. But this is one area where I think they're onto something. Now, as far as what the core problem is and how to address it is where there's more likely to be disagreements between us and them, but at least identifying that, hey, this environment is problematic and what should we do about it is where there's room for subsequent discussion. I think the other aspect is even when clinicians do recognize the role of the food environment or people do recognize it themselves, there's also this sometimes feeling of powerlessness over what am I able to do about this? How modifiable is it in the context of not just my immediate environment, like you said, not just the pantry, but everything in the one mile radius now with the digital environment that surrounds us even further and then situate that in the context of their lives where they have busy work schedules and maybe impaired sleep that weakens their resolve to try to stick to certain plans or they have kids that they're trying to juggle and all sorts of other, again, roadblocks and barriers that make that path of least resistance stronger and stronger in one direction. And so, you know, there are certainly some situations where, hey, you and I have both had to, quote, unquote, take advantage of some of the aspects of the food environment that maybe aren't so ideal, but were kind of helpful for us in that moment. It might not have been the most healthful choice, but were kind of what helped us get by in those particular moments. Now, the issue, of course, is when this becomes a more pervasive pattern in somebody's life over longer periods of time. And so there are certainly pros and cons. But yeah, there's no doubt that the human genetics, as much as you hear about people, including us, talk about the kind of genetic susceptibility towards obesity. A lot of people say, yeah, but genetics haven't changed. And it's like, yeah, but those genes are evolved for a different environment. And so there's you can't separate the genes from the environment. They are, you know, one is situated in the other. And so fully agree that the environment is the core problem. And that's part of why, because of how difficult it has been for us to change, that's why we're kind of stuck working on the individual level a lot of the time, talking about things like self-efficacy and behavior change and the use of medications like GLP-1s and metabolic surgery and things like that at the level of the individual, because the bigger picture, the system is so much more difficult for us to meaningfully modify. Yeah. Yeah. I do think that there's been this shift from like, it's not a shift away from personal responsibility, but a shift away from just trying harder. Like there's more recognition of other influences here, this, you know, gene environment mismatch that's, you know, being, you know, it's really an experiment that's been playing out right in front of our eyes. And so, yeah, I do think that shifting away from just trying harder, you know, telling people that, yeah, just, you know, eat less, move more. I think that's been generally positive, mostly because it's a poor strategy against this rigged system. And, but I want to look at exactly who rigged it and how they did so. So when San Francisco calls these companies a quote public nuisance, they're looking at decades of documented participation in shaping our modern food environment. So we go back to the 1980s, Philip Morris and RJ Reynolds, the two biggest tobacco companies in the world, well, they bought the American pantry. They acquired Kraft, General Foods and Nabisco. And they didn't just bring their money. They brought their scientists. They took the people who spent decades optimizing nicotine delivery and rate of absorption and put them to work on mouthfeel and bliss point. They applied the same hyper-targeting marketing strategies they use for cigarettes to sell sugary snacks to children. The same marketing team that made Joe Camel, a household name who designed Lunchables and Capri Sun. Then let's fast forward to 1999. We're in Minneapolis at the headquarters for Pillsbury. 11 CEOs met to discuss the obesity epidemic. Now, Michael Mudd, VP from Kraft, warned them that they were being compared to tobacco companies. He explicitly warned them that they needed to address the obesity epidemic by reducing sugar and scaling back marketing. The response? The CEO of General Mills, Stephen Sanger, responded by saying, don't talk to me about nutrition. Talk to me about taste. It certainly seems like they knew harm was coming and they chose to double down on hyperpalatability anyway. And I think it's a mistake to think that the industry's influence just stops at the chemistry of the food. Because once they established the intent to maximize the bliss point, they had to ensure the environment made those products the path of least resistance. They didn't just modify the food environment. They built an infrastructure that essentially mandates overconsumption. Through lobbying, they ensured that corn, soy and wheat became the most subsidized crops on earth. The price of these processed shelf-stable foods has remained incredibly stable and cheap for the last 40 years, while the price of fresh produce has shown volatility. When a snack cake consistently is cheaper than a head of broccoli, the choice for a family on a budget, has been subverted by economic policy before they even enter the store. They also engineered the retail environment. Checkout lanes and end cap displays are not accidents of store layout. They are prime real estate sold via slotting fees. 70% of food and beverage options at store checkouts are unhealthy, increasing to 89% for snack size items. And these tend to be more prominent at less expensive stores. These are the high traffic sensory traps designed to trigger automaticity when a person is at their most tired or distracted. Now, Austin, we've laid out how the industry essentially has built this food environment, rigging the economics through subsidies and engineering the physical environment to catch us when we're tired or distracted. But as a doctor who deals with metabolic health and obesity every day, you know that the final battle isn't happening at the checkout lane. It's happening in the brain. Now, the industry has a north star for this engineering called the bliss point. Based on what we know about how the body actually signals fullness, how does a precisely engineered food effectively mute those signals to ensure that we keep eating long after our biological needs are met? Is this like a negative food matrix effect? In the sense that it is an engineered food matrix, a lot of the times it is. And a good way to think about this is, you know, if you are somebody who is feeling a little hungry for your next meal, and you can imagine yourself sitting down for the meal of a variety of all of your favorite foods, compared with a single meal of, let's say, plain boiled potatoes with like no seasoning, nothing else. To the extent that you have an appetite and like true energy needs, you might eat a certain amount of those. And then when you're tapped out, you're done. There's a whole host of mechanisms that might lead you to say, okay, I'm satisfied at this point. There's no further appeal to me in consuming more. But when you have a whole variety of all of your favorite foods in front of you that you can switch between that offer different mechanical textural experiences, flavor experiences that you can go back and forth between, then suddenly the total calorie intake of that meal might expand substantially beyond your energy requirements. So there are a variety of different pathways that can impact this sensation of fullness or satiation and satiety. So there's something things like mechanical stretch, for example, how full physically your stomach is, and that has some neuro kind of signal transduction into certain hormones and things like that. There's also this concept I alluded to called sensory specific satiety, where if you're having a variety of complex flavors versus just like a single thing where bite after bite after bite is exactly the same thing with no variation involved. And then there's, of course, individual level, what we'll call hedonic kind of pathways that your personal preferences and cravings and the things that you as an individual tend to enjoy, that can easily override your pure energy needs because the reward value of a particular food might be just so high. There's many more things that we could get into, of course. But, you know, I think that intuitively, if you think about that meal of a bowl of just plain old boiled potatoes, unless you're somebody who really loves that, versus a multi-course spread at Thanksgiving with, you know, appetizers and entrees and desserts and a little bit, you know, try a little bit of every single thing throughout the evening and it's stretched out and there's social aspects involved and there's alcohol involved and various other things, then suddenly the raw energy intake can be dramatically different. And that's, we can call it a food matrix effect. We can just call it an entire food environmental kind of experiential matrix effect that can lead to significant mismatches between your pure energy calorie requirements versus what ends up actually being consumed. Yeah. Even if you just focus on like the potato continuum, if you will, you got like boiled potatoes all the way on one side. It's, you know, the least processed form. It is cooked, right? And yeah, you get a relatively simple flavor profile, mouthfeel, et cetera. Right. And then, all right, so now we're going to take a cooked potato and we're going to add some seasoning to it and some toppings. Right. So it's a little more tasty, a little more complex, a little bit more likely to cause an increase in calorie consumption because we're, we're, you know, evolutionarily we've, you know, migrated towards this, these behaviors where we seek out things that we know are, have a lot of energy in them. That's, that's kind of what we've been designed to do. Okay. And so now we go from the potato with some toppings on it to, Ooh, what if we fry it? What if we fry it? And we add, we tweak, you know, the sodium, the salt content and the fat content in just a certain way. Like, Ooh, well now it's even, even more. Ooh, well, what if we engineer the mouthfeel to be like crunchy or like melt in your mouth? And it goes even further on the continuum and you ultimately end up at like whatever your tastiest sort of potato chip is or French fry variation. And it's like, well, yeah, no kidding. You're going to consume more calories from that compared to the bowl of boiled potatoes. Does that make sense to you? A hundred percent. That's exactly it. Yeah. So I think an engineered food matrix, I kind of liked that. And maybe it's just a bad one. Cause you could theoretically engineer it the other way. Like, you know, a food matrix got a ton of micronutrients in it and fiber and protein and whatever, but this is maybe a bad food matrix effect. And ultimately the goal from the food industry here is to achieve that bliss point. Now, this was a term that was coined by Howard Moskowitz. He's an American market researcher and psychophysicist. And this is the point where the levels of saltiness, sweetness, and richness were perceived by the consumer to be just right. You can think of this food matrix effect, uh, by comparison, you know, this, uh, steak or, a head of broccoli, they got built in stoplights, structural components like intact fiber and complex proteins that force your body to do work. These elements regulate the speed of digestion and they send clear signals to your brain. It says, Hey, look, we've had enough. But when the industry dismantles that matrix, they're not just making the food easier to eat. They're clearing a path for a specific sensory payload. They take that blank molecular canvas and they engineer this bliss point that overrides the brain's stop signals in a whole food environment, your body's got breaks, but in this ultra processed food environment or food experience, the industry has turned all the stoplights to green and they cut the brake lines. They've created a product that provides maximum reward with little biological feedback. We've got some decent data on this. Uh, Dr. Kevin Hall, he's a Titan in the space. He did this experiment that showed that even when we control for single nutrients, people on average will eat about 500 more calories of ultra processed foods per day. Now, Austin, I want you to unpack that. If this isn't just a simple sugar spike or something like that, or insulin spike, what is actually happening between these engineered foods and the brain that makes these calories so invisible to our satiety system? And why is that such a problem? Yeah, I don't actually think that we have a super clear understanding on this just yet. I think if you ask Dr. Hall that, who I've heard him be asked this type of question, he finds it super intriguing and there are some hypotheses and some ideas, but we still don't have a perfect understanding of this. To the extent we do have some ideas, it can inform some potential ideas for things that we can do, mainly in the realm of like what's called food reformulation, trying to make products that do hit these satiation centers and things like that. Of course, the challenge then is, well, what's the incentive for food companies to do that, to make foods that are more fulfilling and satisfying that people are going to consume less of. But we know, for example, that when there's less bulk fiber, water content, of course, there's less of that mechanical stretch that's going to happen in the stomach and downstream hormonal signaling. If there's foods that even melt in your mouth, then don't even require chewing. We know that people tend to spontaneously consume more calories from, you know, sugar sweetened beverages that go down quick and easy and are tasty and carbonated and cold and things like that compared with, you know, other forms of equivalent calorie expenditure intake, excuse me. And then, yeah, all of this downstream hormonal signaling, we can see a lot of these things when they are measured. Not all of them show meaningful differences. Some of them do. And then the question is, well, how much of a role are these even playing? Is it kind of an epi phenomenon? Is it happening at the same time, but not driving the difference in intake? Or is it actually driving the difference in intake? And so that means that that should be a target for intervention. So I do not have a confident answer for this, and I don't actually think that anybody does. That's why Dr. Kevin Hall's research was so useful and important and why it is so unfortunate that he is not currently doing any more of that research by virtue of having, you know, been kind of pushed out of the NIH this past year. But that is a prime area for us to get better understanding. And then from there, we need to, you know, on a different level than setting up the food environment for people, we almost need to set up the business environment for companies to be able to spontaneously formulate foods that achieve the health goals that we're looking for for the public. There are so many layers of complexity there and policy there that are well beyond our expertise. But it's an interesting way to think about it. It's like we need to identify these variables, figure out which ones are most potent in terms of achieving the impacts we're looking for, and then set up that business environment so that it becomes the natural, rational path of least resistance for these companies to make the products that are compatible with our public health goals. Yeah. Yeah, that's actually, it raises an interesting question for the lawsuit against big food. Because the food industry's defense isn't just, hey, look, we make tasty food. Their defense is that they're simply following the rules. They're meeting every USDA and FDA guideline for shelf-stable, fortified, and convenient foods. But if our regulatory bodies don't even recognize the food matrix and the satiety profile of foods as important variables, are the companies the villains? Or are they just taking the most efficient path in a flawed game? Now, we're going to take a quick break to hear from our sponsors. But when we come back, we're moving from the intent of the manufacturers to the physical toll on the consumer. We're going to look at the 14% of adults who meet the criteria for food addiction and the hard data on just how much this flawed game is hurting us. Stick around. All right. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine podcast. Before the break, we were talking about the bliss point and how the food industry has essentially hacked human satiety. But the San Francisco lawsuit isn't just arguing that this engineering makes food hard to stop eating. They're making the legal claim that these products are also addictive. And the data suggests that they aren't exaggerating. According to research by Gearheart in 2022, 14% of adults and 12% of children now meet the clinical criteria for food addiction using the Yale Food Addiction Scale. This scale applies the same DSM-5 criteria used for alcohol and tobacco, things like loss of control, continued use despite harm, and intense cravings to continue these food practices. Now, to put that statistic into perspective, that is a prevalence rate that's comparable to alcohol use disorder, and it's significantly higher than tobacco use disorder. So this suit argues that the industry's bliss point, again, that perfect ratio of salt, sugar, and fat, is engineered to hit the brain's reward center so hard and so fast that it decouples eating from actual calorie needs. So the lawsuit sits right in the middle of a major academic divide regarding food addiction. And there are two major theories here. The first model is the substance model, where addictive substances are rarely single agents, just as cigarettes are a complex mixture engineered to deliver nicotine as fast as possible. Well, highly processed foods are complex mixtures of refined carbohydrates and fats designed for rapid absorption. Here, the food is the drug. And then there's the second model. This is the behavioral model. So again, true substance use disorders require a single identifiable chemical compound that directly activates the central nervous system, like nicotine, ethanol, or cocaine. In the food world, well, we haven't found that nicotine. People don't abuse pure sugar or butter outside of like some weird social media trends. Instead, they overconsume a wide variety of foods that differ in texture, flavor, and composition. Therefore, the addiction isn't to a substance, it's to the act of eating in a specific context.  autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo behaviors or uncontrolled eating. Now, Austin, I tend to favor this behavioral model here. What do you think about that? Yeah, I agree. I think it's quite, it's maybe a little bit feels too straightforward because when you, well, when you look at the substance model, you're right that people don't just sit in front of a bowl of pure granulated sugar and just binge on that or drink a gallon of olive oil or something like that. Not only that, but people will end up developing, say obesity and its associated complications when it comes from, you know, over consumption of certain foods, there's a wide variation in the types of foods that people tend to consume. So it cannot be a single substance model when there's so much variation. Whereas with alcohol, it's like, yeah, there's different forms, be it wine or liquor or beer or something else. But the, but we have identified the specific component in there, the ethanol that is driving the behaviors. And so, of course, there's also psychosocial context and all sorts of things around the use of that substance. But the ethanol itself is the kind of the determining substance there. And that is what we don't have for food. So different people get there through different means, but kind of the commonality is the experience. And so that's why I think I agree that the behavioral model is by far the better explanation compared with a single substance model. Now, the individual aspects of these substances, the sweetness, the saltiness, the savoriness, the satiating value or lack thereof, all those things do play roles as well. But I don't think that we're ever going to identify, oh, this is the single, you know, food component or certainly like nutrient that contributes to overconsumption. Yeah. The substance model is interesting because again, it almost requires like a specific mixture, right? Of, yeah, maybe it's a specific mixture of salt, fat, acid, you know, whatever, and sugar, which, which would maybe support that. But then you're still taking it out of the context, right? And out of the environment, which I think it plays a very strong role. So it'd be hard to be like a hard substance model person and just ignore the behavior stuff. So yeah, is it, as far as it, you know, appearing relatively straightforward, I think it's because we recognize that the context is important, but people can be forgiven for saying, well, look, it doesn't have to be a single nutrient, but like it can be a combination of things. And I feel like that's reasonable, but yeah, you can't remove it from the context. Now here's where things get even more interesting. Now look, if only 14% of adults meet this clinical criteria for addiction and ignoring any potential problems with that definition, well, that leaves 86% of individuals with obesity who don't. So why is addiction a major part of this lawsuit? Well, in a public nuisance case, you don't have to prove that everyone has an addiction to food and that subsequently causes harm. You only have to prove that the manufacturer knowingly created a product that subverts the health of a significant proportion of the community. You think of it like a dangerous bridge. If a bridge is engineered and built so poorly that 14% of cars drive off the edge of the bridge, we don't say, well, look, 86% of people made it across. So the bridge is fine. We fixed the bridge. Now the 14% of folks who meet this Yale food addiction criteria are the canaries in the coal mine here. They prove that the product has the biological capacity to override human agency. Now, once that is established, the industry's personal responsibility defense, the idea that everyone is just choosing what to eat, collapses. So you establish that the bridge is broken, that human agency is being overridden. The next logical question for the court is, what is the actual damage? In a public nuisance case, you have to prove special injury or widespread harm to the community. And there's some pretty good evidence here. A recent British medical journal umbrella review of nearly 10 million people is helpful at assessing the cost of the modern food environment. So high intake of ultra processed foods is associated with A-50% increased risk of cardiovascular disease related death. For every 10% increase in the proportion of ultra processed foods in the diet, that's associated with a 12% increased risk of type two diabetes, a dose dependent relationship there. There's a 55% higher risk of obesity, 22% higher risk of major depressive disorder, and a number of other common medical conditions all increase with increased consumption of ultra processed foods. Now, if you read the headlines on this, they often claim these risks remained even after researchers adjusted for total calorie intake and BMI, which is unlikely, if not implausible. The industry's defense is always, well, of course, correlation doesn't equal causation. These people just have bad lifestyles. But in a public nuisance case, you don't need a single smoking gun. You need a preponderance of evidence. When nearly 10 million people show that every 10% increase in these foods correlates to a 12% jump in type two diabetes, the lifestyle excuse starts to look a lot like a cover story for a rigged deck. Austin, there's another layer here. Many of these studies try to adjust for calorie intake and they claim that the harm still exists. But we know that self-reported dietary data is notoriously unreliable. People consistently underreport their energy intake, especially when it comes to highly processed foods that they're, quote, addicted to or otherwise overconsuming. If the primary nuisance of these foods is that they drive a massive spontaneous calorie surplus, does it even make sense to try and find a risk independent of calories? Are we missing the forest for the trees by ignoring that overeating is the harm? Yeah, I think that you're right, that underreporting of calories is super common in the same way that overreporting of energy expenditure through exercise is also common. We have direct data looking at this where the randomizing groups to receive these ultra-process predominant diets versus more, quote, unquote, whole food diets leads to the spontaneous overconsumption. So you're right that the overeating is the spontaneous result. It is quite apparent. It is very difficult to refute or deny at this point. I do think that there is some increase in risk independent of calories. And for example, we have evidence that we are able to make health-promoting food substitutions and swaps that lead to improvements in health outcomes even if people don't lose weight, for example. That's a well-known phenomenon. But I do think that the bigger kind of beast that we're wrangling with here is the overall energy intake and its impact on body mass and the downstream consequences of excess adiposity. Yeah. Yeah. I think the biggest lever that's changing is that, look, people are spontaneously consuming more calories. And that's due to the engineering of the food. But that doesn't mean that nothing else is going on under the hood. Like if you strip out enough fiber and then you took that same group of people and you had them add in foods that had more fiber, but they didn't lose any weight or didn't change calorie consumption, we'd likely see some health benefits. Those would be modest compared to if this also controlled for energy intake. Exactly. Yes. So to me, overeating is kind of the feature here. But this brings us to the ultimate pragmatic question for 2026. If the core problem is that these foods have broken our internal satiety meters and we see this body count mounting in the data, why are we waiting on a 10-year legal battle to fix the food supply? We've got these GLP-1 medications and other anti-obesity medications that literally bridge that signaling gap pharmacologically. Is this lawsuit a slow motion solution to a biological problem that we've already solved? I think it is a potential solution, but also the pragmatic aspects of this create challenges. And it's part of why I think attacking these from both ends is worthwhile. What I mean by that is that, yeah, we have essentially, quote unquote, solved this biologically or pharmacologically with the medicines, but we're still faced with the practical reality of like, okay, so is our solution to continue letting the food environment run rampant and get every single human on one of these medicines? Some people, some companies, in fact, would love that idea. I think there are a lot of challenges to that, both cost, financial, tolerability. Not everybody can safely take these medicines for various reasons, things like that. And so to the extent we can address the food environment, I mean, that's the bigger umbrella aspect of this whole situation that for some people, still not for everyone, but for some people would obviate the need for the medicines or attacking it on an individual level. People are just super different. Some people, even with a perfect food environment, will manage to develop obesity. This has been recognized as long as recorded history has existed. And those folks are the ones who are most likely to benefit from these anti-obesity treatments and metabolic bariatric surgery and things like that. It's only once the environment reaches this critical level that we're at right now where a much larger swath of the population ends up being impacted. And that big additional swath, those are the people who, yep, they can benefit from these medicines. I see it and do it every day in practice. But also if we did manage to shift the environment substantially, they might not need them either. And so kind of like it's worth attacking this both ways. Yeah. Yeah. I think we obviously agree on that. And I think most people would agree. Well, yeah, por qué no los dos. Let's do both here. But when you start thinking about what would be needed to meaningfully change the food environment, you're like, OK, so, yeah, this lawsuit has to be won. And then there needs to be a massive overhaul of like subsidies, food company manufacturing practices, and then the built environment. So many things would need to change and how long that would take if it even was accepted. And like all these things were like, it's almost like you're paying lip service to it. You're like, yeah, yeah, no, we should do that for sure. But like pretty skeptical that anything would change enough to really, again, obviate the need for nobody needs to be on GOP ones anymore because the food environment is awesome. Like, yeah, I don't see that as a realistic end state. But and you're right that there's the complexity of both a very legal, legalistic, litigious society that kind of bogs things down for years to decades at a time working through those types of processes. And then there's also the cultural component, right there, like in the US, at least the culture of, you know, very strong individualism. And I get to choose whatever I want to the extent that they're actually choosing, et cetera. You can trust that because there are other societies around the world that have much more favorable food environments and built environments around them for exercise and spontaneous physical activity and all sorts of other sorts of things. But the idea that we're going to transpose that onto our society and that it will work and be accepted and get rapid uptake and things like that. Yeah, super, super unlikely. So I agree that the realistic kind of from a pragmatic perspective, and that's why the medicines are doing what they are right now, whereas the state of our food environment is not like meaningfully improving, I would say, day to day, week to week or year to year. Can you imagine? So let's just let's let's go to bizarro world here. The lawsuit is one. Okay. Policies changed. The incentives for food manufacturers also change. Right. And everything just overnight, you made wave a magic wand. Boom. It's different. It's perfect. The food environment is. People still are going to remember these hyperpalatable foods. Yeah. Is this like a prohibition era like type thing and starts popping up? You go. There's like a speakeasy, but it's for like snacks. Yeah. People are going to be ordering, you know, these things off eBay from like, you know, years prior when they still when they still used to make this particular food product. Oh, yeah, totally. You got Twinkies, bro. Where did you get these? Yeah. So we've established that the current food environment is problematic. But if we're going to fix it or if the court's going to regulate it, we have to define what it is. And right now, the legal and scientific world is obsessed with the nolva food classification system. We've talked about this a few times, but nolva is not an acronym. It's just a four letter word. It's capitalized, oddly, for some unknown reason that groups foods into four categories with group four being ultra processed. But this is problematic for from two major perspectives. First, classifying a high quality whey protein isolate or ultra filtered milk in the same category as an Oreo, just because they're both group four ultra processed foods is like saying a bicycle and a Boeing 747 are the same because they both contain metal. One is an engineered tool designed for a specific performance or health outcome. And the other is an engineered trap for overconsumption. By loving them together, we aren't helping people change their behavior. We're just confusing them because the public doesn't really understand this anyway. This is the second point. And even if they did, does it really change behavior to just know better? Most people know that broccoli is healthier than a Twinkie, irrespective of intricate knowledge regarding processing or the nolva food classification system. But that doesn't stop them from eating the Twinkie. But just imagine if we labeled all of these ultra processed foods group four. It's like a red sign on the front. Is that meaningfully going to change food behavior? There are some countries that have experimented with the so-called traffic light system. And there is some impact on food related behaviors, whether that is enough to, again, just shift the entire population's risk profile, drop, you know, population wide BMIs by a few points, you know, put diabetes into remission, less and less likely. But I also don't think that it's realistic to expect that a single intervention like that is itself going to be, you know, unlocking, you know, this entire problem. It's likely going to be multi pronged, multifactorial, incremental benefits from a variety of different things, whether labeling, reformulation, you know, all sorts of other things that, you know, could be trialed. Yeah, you're not going to get a 20% benefit from one thing. You're going to get a 1% benefit from 20 things. You got to do all of them to make a significant difference. Yeah. And I think the core issue here regarding, you know, processing and narratives around just don't eat any processed foods is that processing isn't just one thing. So there can be functional processing, which includes things like freezing vegetables or making Greek yogurt or making canned beans, you know, shelf stable or ultra filtered milk. Yeah, they're processed, but the processing is used to improve shelf life, convenience and nutrient density without necessarily hacking your satiety signals. And then there's hyper palatable processing. This is the nuisance. These are products engineered for that bliss point, stripping the fiber out, adding the perfect ratio of salt, sugar and fat purely to drive consumption. They're both processing. They're just different and lead to different outcomes. So let's say that the nolva system is refined to a satisfactory level, properly identifying only the foods that cause unique harm through overeating and any other unique mechanisms. That would be awesome, right? Our food supply would have more satiety stoplights. So less people would be likely to overeat and all would be well in the world. You have this magic wand, we wave it and make every calorie in America minimally processed. We would likely see a massive spontaneous reversal in the obesity epidemic. But there's a catch. Sure, it's generally better for humans to eat a minimally processed whole food diet, but we have to be careful to not turn health into a luxury good. We tell everyone avoid all group four foods. Are we creating a health literacy barrier that only the wealthy can cross? Imagine a single parent living in a food desert and they can only afford group four shelf stable foods to feed their kids and their family. Are we as clinicians doing more harm by pathologizing their only accessible food source? In the real economy of 2026, fresh produce and minimally processed meats are increasingly expensive. By reducing access to all ultra process options, the cost of groceries could go up even more for folks who are currently the most victimized by this food environment. We're basically telling them that, look, you're poisoning yourself and you can't afford a whole food lifestyle. So tough luck. And this is why I get so frustrated with the silly targets that are currently hijacking the conversation. We've got RFK Jr. focusing on red dye 40 and seed oils and removing the advice to reduce saturated fat intake in the latest guidelines, none of which help people make healthier food choices more accessible or more affordable. It just makes the still processed food more expensive. Focusing on food dye while ignoring a 500 calorie satiety gap is like trying to fix a sinking ship by repainting the lifeboats. The nuisance isn't the seed oil or the food dye. The nuisance is the engineered lack of satiety and the energy toxicity that has subsequently resulted. Now, Austin, if we spend our limited behavioral capital with patients telling them to hunt for red dye 40 or avoid canola oil, we don't have anything left to help them address the actual big levers like their micro food environments, their food preparation skills, and so on. So as a clinician, how do you help a patient navigate a world where minimally processed is the goal, but ultra processed is the reality? How do we give them a strategy that works for their budget without making them feel like they're only affordable food options or a moral failure? This is a very challenging question and one that I don't think a lot of clinicians are necessarily very well equipped to address directly outside of the dietetics field where they have much more extensive training in how to assess a patient, their current situation, their needs, and how best to achieve their goals for the best health outcomes and things like that. Because obviously, we can talk about this at multiple levels. We've already addressed it at the macro level, like the big food environment that we all live in, as well as what you described as kind of the more micro environment, your immediate surroundings. Those are different things that might require different strategies to help somebody work through. Recognizing that somebody's food and eating related behaviors are somewhat, at least somewhat automatic and a little bit less consciously controlled than we would like. And also, there's all sorts of other influences, like what types of foods they grew up with, what types of foods they know how to prepare, what types of foods they prefer, and whether they have any experience making, eating, or even, you know, ideally enjoying certain types of foods as well can be a perfectly healthy and normal part of life. And so when we're doing our own assessments and talking to patients, getting a sense of what does their habitual diet look like, and what are some reasonable and accessible potential substitutions, because there are, in fact, highly economical options that can be substituted into people's diets to displace or substitute for some of the less health-promoting options, but figuring out what those are on an individual level that fit their kind of cultural practices and what types of foods they are comfortable and have the access and the ability to prepare might be the challenge, right? So there have been these kind of guideline statements that have come out, you know, over time that advise a very particular dietary pattern. Let's call one, for example, the Mediterranean diet. Well, if this person that I'm talking to is from, you know, a village in rural Africa, or they're coming from, you know, Southeast Asia or something like, these are just fundamentally different diets. And so it's very difficult to transpose one on the other and expect it to work. So when we look at, you know, our most highly satiating foods, looking at things like very high foods with very high contents of fiber per calorie and things like that, we're looking at legumes are a very predominant aspect of my diet, your diet, a lot of the diets that we end up recommending certain types of seafood to the extent that that's accessible to the person frozen foods to include frozen vegetables and fruits, very common, very accessible for a lot of people. You mentioned ultra filtered milk, that has a little bit of a high price premium on it compared with more traditional milk, it kind of depends on somebody's preferences and their tolerability, but definitely looking for these foods that are accessible to the person preferable to them that contain plenty of protein and fiber per per calorie, and are within their budgets and things like that. So those are some of the features that we might look for early on to find substitutions to compare to what they're habitually consuming on a regular basis. Yeah, and knowing you, you know, and the way you go about, you know, talking to a patient, interviewing them, you're leading more with open ended questions, tell me what you eat, what do you like to eat? Tell me your, you know, tell me about your cooking experience. Yeah, basically trying to get a sense of where they're at to again, find threads, opportunities for potential improvement, as well as opportunities to leverage the resources that they already have access to, because you could lay out the perfect dietary pattern for somebody, make them a grocery list, macros, calories, the whole thing. And they're like, I don't know how to cook. Right. Go back to square one. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like, yeah, you probably should have picked that up earlier. You don't need the plan first, you need to, you know, where is this person starting for, and then as the professional, help them navigate that roadmap, ultimately trying to make them more competent at navigating this environment. But yeah, most people jump right to the solution. And it's like, you sure this is like universally applicable or. Yeah. I mean, to go back even further from where you were starting, my question is like, why is this person talking to me? Like what led them to talk to me today? Right. Because then, as I've talked about in many other contexts with behavior change, it's like trying to find what is the thing that I can advise that ties into something meaningful to you? Like, why do you care about this? And how can I make what I care about also something that you care about? Yep. Yeah, exactly. And even if it like, even if this whole, uh, the conversation just went sideways, the person recognizes that their dietary pattern could be improved. They recognize that they have some, um, elements that are controllable and they can make those changes, right? But they can't make all of them or they can't make a significant amount of them just for whatever reason, right? Whether it's time, whether it's financial resources, so on and so forth. Um, that doesn't mean they can't get any benefit out of making some change. And perhaps they're more, uh, amenable to a different sort of health promoting behavior, like increasing exercise, for example. You know, if a person was originally there to talk to you about their weight and whatever, and then ultimately you couldn't come to a satisfactory resolution, as far as this is our initial plan moving forward, it's checking all the boxes. It's the perfect patient. Yep. And you brought up, you know, how do you feel about exercise? And they were like, Hmm, yeah, I would be open to that. Like, again, you've just benefited this person and they've benefited, um, their own trajectory there. So a lot of different options here to help them be more competent in navigating this environment. Now we spent this whole episode talking about how the food industry has engineered a public health crisis, but lawsuits take years and your health is happening right now. We can't just wait for the courts to fix the food supply. We've got to take some action. So here are some strategies for navigating a rigged game. First off, we're starting in the grocery store. So if you have hyper palatable, ultra processed foods in your house, the really tasty treats, you're going to have to use willpower every single day to resist them. Your dietary RPE is going to be high, at least for most folks. But if you make a commitment to avoid buying those things in the first place, when you go to the grocery store, you only have to use your willpower budget once. If the bliss point isn't in your pantry, the environment can't exploit your satiety signals at 9 PM on a Tuesday when you're tired. Second part is going to be related to food preparation. Now, based on survey data, six out of 10 adults ate food from either a fast food or full service restaurant in the past 24 hours. This is a problem that has mostly to do with calories. The more meals that are consumed from fast food or full service restaurants per week, the higher someone's BMI is on average. By contrast, the more meals that are prepared inside the home tend to be lowering calories, tend to have smaller portions, and are more satiating than when eating out. When you cook at home, you're the engineer. You're more in control than if you go to a restaurant. So spending some of this behavior change budget on learning how to prepare and store food, in addition to shifting towards preparing more meals at home in general, I think that'd be a good use of resources. The third part of this strategy is going to be changing your micro food environment. You can't really do much about the built environment around us, at least not in the short term, but we're trying to make the path of resistance more healthy in the places you spend the most time. So we're trying to kind of add friction towards behaviors that we don't want while reducing friction to behaviors we do want. So again, if you have these hyper palatable snacks, maybe they're for the kids, you can't avoid buying them or for guests that come in the home. We'll keep them out of sight. There's been some thought to place them in like opaque containers and place them high in the pantry, keeping them out of sight and out of mind and ultimately reducing the marketing sort of drive or desirability drive, and instead keeping high satiety tools, fruit, vegetables, ultra filtered milk, jerky, whatever at eye level or otherwise easily accessible. And the office is often a high density food swamp of donuts and vending machines and other treats that people bring in. But you could treat your desk like a little micro oasis. You could bring your own protein powder, other high protein, high satiety snacks so that you aren't forced to rely on willpower in the break room. Presumably you go to work on most days, so that would be a good change. And lastly, you can change the eating environment. This is something that people probably have the most control over. So when you're sitting there eating while scrolling your phone or watching TV, you're essentially muting your brain's ability to monitor satiety signals, feelings of fullness. You're increasing this biological blindness to how full you are, how many calories you're consuming. So we advise or I advise often trying to eat distraction free, no screens, all right, to allow both the mechanical and chemical stop signals to be heard and otherwise realized. And if eating at the same time also appears to have some benefit. So we eat at similar times each day that tends to help regulate hunger hormones like ghrelin, for example, and your body starts knowing when to expect energy, how much energy it's getting. And so these spikes in hunger become more predictable and easier to manage and ultimately can lead to more successful outcomes. Now, all of that in place, there are still going to be individuals in this modern environment that are going to have trouble regulating their body composition and their body weight to a level that sort of optimizes their health trajectory. So Austin, what are some other interventions that can be useful here? Yeah, a lot of this depends on the additional kind of details of of the person. So to the extent that there are some of these experienced of psychological aspects around their eating behaviors, working with some form of a therapist or a dietitian might help to work through some of that person's individual issues, predispositions, tendencies, behavior patterns that they're having a little bit of difficulty kind of working through managing or or need some additional input input on strategies to handle. What form of therapy or dietitian strategies that might involve are going to be super individualized. So that would be one place to start working with a physician around this, particularly if they have obesity or certainly obesity related complications, things like high blood pressure, cholesterol, cardiovascular disease, fatty liver disease, diabetes, et cetera. Those are stronger and stronger candidates for what we'll call higher intensity interventions to include things like the medications like GLP-1 receptor agonists, multi agonists, and some of our other weight management related medicines, basically because the aim here is to improve people's health outcomes, improve their longevity, reduce the risk of complications related to obesity, and to give them essentially more control over their day-to-day life. And that is one of the most interesting and compelling things that I see and hear from patients that in whom I use these medicines now on a daily basis where they tell me, look, I was able to lose weight repeatedly over the years. I've lost and regained the same 30, 50, 100 pounds multiple times over the years. I know how to do these things, but the use of this medicine gives me control to do and sustain those things that I already knew I needed to be doing, right? And so it makes it so that they don't have to have that high RPE, that daily, I have to wake up and go to war every day just to, you know, avoid the things that set them down the wrong path. Because to your point, I tell people a lot, if it's in the house, it's going down the hatch for a lot of people and because of how automatic this is. So these tools give people more control and let them do the things they already know that they wanted and needed to do. And then finally, we have metabolic bariatric surgery, which I still am quite proud of that podcast episode that we did a couple years ago. I think it was an exceptional kind of overview of that topic. And I still think that it is an underutilized, under-referred for resource, particularly for those who have been struggling with this the most and for the longest. So these are some kind of higher level interventions, things that are worth discussing with your physician to see if they're appropriate for you if you're in this situation. Yeah, I think a lot of this, you know, reticence to maybe use medications or therapy or metabolic bariatric surgery, accessing that has to do with this sort of like moral underpinning to like, it matters how you got there. Oh, how did you lose the weight? How did you maintain the weight loss? And it's like, look, if these, you know, pick yourself up by the bootstrap sort of efforts, you know, just try harder, eat less, move more. If those were more successful, we would be bigger champions of people doing that, you know, in isolation. But unfortunately, because of the modern environment and because most food-related practices have at least some element of subconscious, you know, integration going on, they're just not that successful. And so ultimately, we want people to be successful and to put them on a better health trajectory. And so having additional resources can be useful. All right, let's wrap this up. The San Francisco lawsuit against Kraft Heinz and others is more than just a legal battle over cookies and soda. It is a reckoning with the idea that the personal responsibility defense has reached its expiration date. As the obesity epidemic has grown over the last 50 years, we've been told that health is a solo mission of macros and willpower. But the data shows that when you put a humanin a precisely engineered... Have you ever recognized for autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl  aut autoprilaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguaguagu targets like food dyes or seed oils distract us from the actual structural problems of energy density and food matrix integrity we can't turn health into a luxury good that only the wealthy can afford now ideally this lawsuit would allow the food industry to create healthy low-cost desirable foods but banning all hyper palatable foods seem problematic perhaps creating a black market for these types of food as if we were back in the prohibition era future concerns aside what should you do now your action plan is to stop playing defense against a rigged food environment and start playing offense on your micro environment when you shop for food aim to limit how much hyper palatable ultra processed foods you buy using willpower once a week is likely to be more successful than doing it every day after the kids are asleep don't throw the baby out with the bath water not all processed food is bad if a processed food provides 30 or more of its calories from protein and has more than one gram of fiber per 10 grams of carbohydrates it can be a tool for your success not a trap for your satiety you can engineer your own environment use friction put high reward foods out of sight and high satiety tools at eye level turn your home and your desk into a micro oasis you can reclaim your signaling by eating undistracted let your brain hear the signals your gut is trying to send and if all of those signals are still not quite right speak to your physician about additional tools whether it's therapy metabolic bariatric surgery or anti-obesia medications we now have to repair them the city of san francisco is suing to fix the environment for the community but until that bridge is fixed you are the architect of your own environment let's go to work for dr austin baraki and the entire team at barbell medicine i'm dr jordan feigenbaum thanks for listening we'll see you next week on the barbell medicine podcast

=== FILE: The Truth About Eggs, Dietary Cholesterol, and Heart Disease Risk [tvOIm-Xj93Q].txt ===

 All right, let's get into the first controversy. All right, let's get into the first controversy. We're talking about eggs and dietary cholesterol, or as Dr. Tom Campitelli calls them in his, the best New Zealand accent, best Kiwi accent, eeks. Eeks. So what's the controversy here? Well, the controversy is that the public and many health professionals are still arguing about whether or not we should limit dietary cholesterol in our diets. And eggs are the scapegoat because that's one of the most common foods that people eat that has dietary cholesterol in them. in an X X 하나 in X 하나 in X 하나 in X 하나 in X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나! X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 X 하나 per the guidelines issued by the American Heart Association. It wasn't until the 2015 to 2020 dietary guidelines that an upper limit of dietary cholesterol was removed from the guidelines. And then if you look at the 2020 to 2025 guidelines, they say to keep dietary cholesterol as low as possible, but they reverted back to that. And then the 2025 to 2030 dietary guidelines, well, their scientific consensus doesn't even address dietary cholesterol at all, not even in the scientific consensus at all. So it's clear as mud in the dietary guidelines from a dietary guidelines standpoint. And not that anyone reads or follows these guidelines anyway, but eggs seem to get caught in the crossfire due to their cholesterol content. There have been a number of studies with different methodology and different results about whole eggs and whether they're quote good or not, which have been poorly reported by the mainstream media. Now, if you talk about eggs or dietary cholesterol or the social media, whether it's any other place, controversy abounds. Eggs are good or they're bad, or maybe it's just the yolk that's bad. Dietary cholesterol is terrible for you versus limiting cholesterol may be terrible for you because many hormones require cholesterol to make. So we're going to get to the bottom of this, try to come up with a consensus here. But Dr. Baraki, when you hear about, you know, people saying, look, you can't limit dietary cholesterol because hormones. Is it just eye roll right to the back of your head or like? I do my best to, if there is an eye roll, I try to keep it internal and not visible to the party with whom I'm engaging as that's a poor way to enact belief change, as we have learned from some of our favorite resources here. But, you know, it just, similar to the Quack Watch segment, it illustrates that this person is probably not an expert in this area. And they may well be deriving these narratives from, you know, certain internet and social media resources and things like that. And it's likely that they're relatively entrenched in their position, although sometimes that's more open to being changed. So, you know, in that conversation, I might ask, you know, what that's based on or where that comes from and actually see if the person's open to a conversation on it. But in general, you know, the cholesterol derived hormones are synthesized by their respective cells, the endocrine organs that make those things. But all the cells of our body can make all the cholesterol they need in order to do these things. And so there is a difference in the different compartments of the body where we can find and measure cholesterol levels. So I think that people, you know, have very inaccurate understandings of blood test interpretation. I think that we've talked about that at length before on the podcast. But the blood is just one compartment of the body. Just because you can measure something in the blood, it doesn't tell you, you know, the entirety of everything about that substance in the person's body. It can be in the blood. It can be in adipose. It could be in cerebrospinal fluid. It could be in urine. It could be in saliva. It could be, you know, and all of these things are different body fluids or different body compartments where we can measure things. So, you know, I can't just do a test in your blood for meningitis, for example, because that's a different compartment. So I have to go into that compartment and sample that fluid and test that if I want to get a sense of it. And so there's cholesterol in the blood. There's cholesterol inside our cells. There's cholesterol in our cell membranes. There's cholesterol like that. One of the biggest pools that nobody even realizes is like red blood cells carrying around, like within the red blood cells and the red blood cell membranes that we don't actually measure when we're measuring blood cholesterol levels, because that's when we're measuring lipoprotein concentrations and what they're carrying in terms of cholesterol mass. So the point here is that it's easy to weave a simple sounding narrative to say some hormones come from cholesterol. And so you want more cholesterol in your blood so your body can make hormones. And there are so many. You're like not just leaping. You're like triple jumping over biological facts that are very important here to consider when you're trying to come to these kind of conclusions and make recommendations on it. Yeah. You've left you've left Earth's orbit. You're now in outer space. That's how big of the leap that you've been. You've been. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So let's come up with a consensus here about dietary cholesterol and, you know, by proxy eggs. So the effect of dietary cholesterol, such as cholesterol in the foods that we eat or theoretically things that we drink on serum or blood cholesterol levels as carried by the lipoprotein. So like LDL, HDL, et cetera. Well, it's nuanced and it comes down to this other ratio. And I look, these are going to be like long words, but I want you guys to follow along here. So there is a ratio called the P to S ratio, polyunsaturated to saturated fat ratio. And this has been calculated on the dietary pattern a person habitually eats. Now the target would be 1.0 or better, whereas great or optimal, if you're a biohacker, would be about 2.0 or higher. The typical Western diet is 0.5 or so, sometimes lower. Some studies have measured as low as 0.3 in modern times in the United States. So when the ratio is low, that means the person is consuming low amounts of polyunsaturated fats and high amounts of saturated fat. There is a more significant effect of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels. So again, let me restate that. If this ratio is low, you're not consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats, are consuming a high amount of saturated fats. There is a more significant effect of how much dietary cholesterol you eat per day on your blood cholesterol levels as measured by things like LDL, for example. When the ratio is high, lots of polyunsaturated fats, low levels of saturated fat in the diet, this effect is much smaller. It's not to really say that there's no effect, although some studies have shown minimal effects here, but the evidence overall going back long periods of time before you and I were around, Dr. Baraki, does indicate that basically going from no cholesterol in your diet to higher amounts does impact your blood cholesterol levels, but just maybe not that much, maybe not to a nefarious sort of clinical effect if you're consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats. So overall, this effect is sort of complex, and if I had to like tie this together, and I'll get your take on this too, Dr. B, that if somebody whose dietary pattern is rich in polyunsaturated fats, so from vegetables, fish, nuts, et cetera, whatever, and low in saturated fat, I really don't care what their dietary cholesterol levels are unless it seems to me that they're like a hyper absorber of dietary cholesterol, for example, or there's some other reason that I'd want to limit it. I just, I'm less concerned, right? And so at that point, I'd be like, this is probably where we, not where we want to focus our efforts. I'd probably focus on like dietary fiber, potentially medical management. If somebody's at high risk of heart disease, does that kind of jive with the, your understanding of this? Yeah. I wanted to add some of the clarifications that, that have been baked into this discussion so far, because I think that perhaps in, in our efforts around public messaging on this, I think sometimes the message has gotten maybe a bit, um, uh, potentially over oversimplified or, or has come across in a way to say that there's essentially never any significant impact of dietary cholesterol on blood cholesterol levels. And that's actually not entirely accurate. There is a lot of context around it that matters. And then even within that context, uh, I think that there, for most people, as it relates to their cardiovascular risk management, there are probably more important or stronger levers for us to be pulling on. And so there actually is, or there would be a clinical situation in which I could envision myself addressing somebody's dietary cholesterol levels, but it is almost never the first or second thing that I'm assessing. Right. So I'm much more likely to get a sense of what's the person's, you know, I take a, you know, thorough dietary history. And from that, try to derive my gestalt about their P to S ratio. Like, are there consuming tons of high saturated fat, uh, uh, foods or foods, uh, with fats, saturated fats derived from the animal sources most commonly, uh, but also some, some other ones as well, and trying to shift that pattern into an unsaturated direction. That would be a higher priority, uh, because I think that's likely to have a bigger impact on their, on various outcomes, including their blood lipids, but also several other things. And then I'm aggressively trying to work on the dietary fiber piece, as we talked about in the last section as well. So aiming to get people to increase their intake of certain fruits and veg and legumes and, you know, uh, higher fiber, whole food sources. And if I've worked on all those things, I have an appropriate energy balance. I have appropriate, you know, physical activity, insulin sensitivity, sleep situation. I'm like attacking all the lifestyle pieces as hard as I can. And I have their dietary patterns set up the way that I think is, you know, reasonable. And they're still running, you know, higher than we'd like, um, on some of their, their blood panels. Then I might, you know, if there somehow still is a residual dietary source of cholesterol that is like a significant, then I might actually target that. But that's a, that's a later on step. Um, because I do know that going from some intake down to minimal down to zero, for example, uh, does actually have an impact on blood levels, but it's just that that impact is not so large as to justify it as like a leading intervention, uh, right off, right off the bat, unless somebody really wants to. And if they do, then fine. Uh, if they wanted to, uh, again, if they said, I'm going to go to a zero cholesterol diet, it's like, okay, I mean, I, I want to make sure that we still are consuming a generally well-rounded and very, very diet here, but I would not have concerns for example, oh, your, your hormones are about to tank or something like that, unless you go into like a, you know, a massive calorie deficit or something, but then it's not from lowering your dietary cholesterol piece. It's from the overall energy situation, which certainly can have an impact on hormones and things like that. Yeah. Uh, so to move on to eggs, so eggs, which do contain a decent amount of dietary cholesterol are just part of us broader dietary pattern, just like any other type of food. Which the dietary pattern being more predictive of health than any singular food that somebody may consume. So whole eggs and or egg whites can be part of a healthy dietary pattern. Um, I am again, not really concerned about the quote high cholesterol that's in eggs or really anything else. If somebody's P to S ratio is really, really good. Um, again, it may be a, a step that you'd want to take to remove those sources of dietary cholesterol, but that's way down the line. And I don't even know that it would be part of like this optimization thing for somebody who's otherwise healthy. It'd be more of like a look, man, we're really pulling strings here. And honestly, for a person like that, they'd have to be very, very against taking a medication to, to further like optimize the risk, which I think would have a much bigger effect. And we don't get paid anything from pharma for saying this, but it's just like, look, if you, if you're pulling out all these stops in your diet and your lifestyle to try to like optimize your risk of, you know, not having any sort of a major adverse cardiac event, medications probably gonna have a bigger bang for your buck than the dietary cholesterol piece. Plus like if you love eggs, I don't know. You know, I'd be like, I'm just saying like your quality of life may be, may be better that way. But if someone doesn't want to take medication, they really want to avoid them for whatever reason, that's fine. I'm happy to honor that and, and modify the diet accordingly, but that's, it's just a smaller effect. Yeah. And, and I think, you know, one little caveat that this brought to mind when you, since you bring up medications is if it were true that dietary cholesterol had zero impact whatsoever on blood cholesterol levels, then ezetimibe would not do anything. Ezetimibe is a drug that inhibits intestinal absorption of cholesterol, right? So that's one side of the equation. So clearly there's some relationship there. However, if dietary cholesterol was this massive driver of blood lipid regulation and cardiovascular risk, then ezetimibe would have a much larger effect than it actually does. So ezetimibe's effect, broadly speaking, in like, you know, unselected kind of population level studies and things like that, meaning what the reason I caveat it that way is not like specifically stratifying people by hyperabsorbers or not, for example, broadly speaking, the effect of ezetimibe is on the modest size. I still use it often, but I use it in higher risk patients or in those who have like statin intolerance, or I want to use like low dose combination therapies, things like that. But looking at it this way, I think helps to kind of clarify the controversy here in that there's some relationship between them, but it is also modest. And then there are some people who seem to be like, you know, these hyperabsorber phenotypes for whom ezetimibe is likely to have a more potent effect on their blood lipids and potentially subsequent cardiovascular risk. Although that kind of assessing that and, you know, that sort of precision prescribing approach is not currently like kind of standard of care, I would say, in practice. If I have, I'm most often starting it in like the highest risk patients, but I've in recent years started to use it more often in low dose combination therapy with folks. Yeah. You would also predict ezetimibe to have a smaller effect on an individual has, is consuming a lot of polyunsaturated fats compared to saturated fats, you know? Yes, totally. But the last two things I wanted to say, dietary cholesterol intake has basically no clinically significant effect on hormones. Nearly every cell in the body can make cholesterol. It's particularly the tissues that make hormones. It's not the rate limiting step in hormone production. Instead, that's like the trophic signals you get to those tissues from like your pituitary gland, other sort of organs. And overall, I would have people focus on the dietary pattern, limit saturated fat from red meat and most processed foods, get most of your dietary fats from fish, nuts, non-butter dairy sources, and plant-derived oils. And dietary cholesterol is generally a lower concern for most within this context, this dietary pattern. For each one of these controversial questions, I've put together what I consider to be some of the best resources, like links to studies, and you can read those. And you're doing your own research, but I'm helping. I'm helping. I'm helping. Get to the right sources.付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付付

=== FILE: The Ultimate GLP-1 Guide： Weight Loss, Side Effects & Sarcopenia Risk [UzSTys7dEMQ].txt ===

 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're tackling a topic that has fundamentally changed the landscape of health, weight management, and chronic disease, the rise of anti-obesity medications, specifically GLP-1 receptor agonists. Now, whether you're an athlete, a health or fitness professional, or just someone trying to navigate your own health, you've heard the names, Ozampic, Wigovie, Monjaro, but the story has evolved rapidly and so has the data. And in this podcast, we'll provide an update on these medications. Are they just for weight loss, or do they also help with other medical conditions? And just what does the data say about efficacy, side effects, and the loss of muscle mass? To help us out, I have two of the best minds in the business. First, the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki, and Obesity Medicine expert, Dr. Spencer Ndolski. Welcome to the show, guys. Am I the third? I don't know. I just assume that everybody that we ever have on the podcast is in the top 10. Okay. I'll take top 10. Yeah. I'll take what I can get, honestly. No, that's just... Are you Jordan? Are you the most handsome? No, no, no. This is an inside joke. And if you're a longtime listener of the show, you know who's the most handsome doctor in North America. But anyway, Dr. Baraki, what's going on, man? Hey, I'm doing okay. I'm glad to have Spencer here to cover this topic. I'm attending on the wards in the hospital at the moment, but I'm able to sneak away and set some time aside for this conversation. Yeah. And then if you guys don't know who Dr. Spencer Ndolski is, he's been on the show, I think you've been on our podcast a few times. We've been on your podcast. We actually met when I was in medical school in Virginia. I believe you were in residency at the same time. Yeah. Yeah. Shout out to Gorka. Jordan drove up and is M4 while he's in med school. And I was like, Jesus Christ, I'm resident. I'm freaking poor. Well, yeah, that barbell medicine money, you know. That big barbell. Yeah. Before we pop into this, we do have a lot of questions and a lot of stuff to get to. But real quick, Spencer, can you give people just a rundown who may not be familiar with you, what your background is and what you're doing now? Yeah. Very quickly, NCAA athlete. I was a heavyweight wrestler. UNC Chapel Hill actually went to Michigan State to play football. I wrestled there as well. I ended up transferring, trying to do both. Realized I wasn't Bo Jackson, had to pick one sport. Ended up going with wrestling and then went to med school, went to Virginia College of Oceopathic Medicine at the time. That's what it was called. It's now Edward Viya, something, Virginia College. Went to family medicine residency at VCU in Newport News in Virginia. After residency 2014, that's when I met you, Jordan. Then I specialized into obesity medicine and lipidology. Really interested in innovating delivery care models. So we all worked together at a startup called SteadyMD. Very quickly started doing all sorts of other stuff and made a company called Sequence, which was bought by Weight Watchers. I then left Weight Watchers to recreate a new company, kind of an evolution online cardio metabolic direct care model practice called Vineyard. That's the gist really. We have a podcast called Docs Who Lift. We're all meatheads here. A lot of meat flowing around in this podcast. And then Dr. Baraki, you're actually starting with Vineyard. You're going to be taking some online patients starting in December, I believe. Is this the big? This is breaking news. Yeah, I suppose it is breaking news. I mean, yeah, so Spencer and I have known each other for a while in the telemedicine space, worked together for a while in the past at SteadyMD. I've been doing telemedicine, I guess since 2017 or so. Maintained a panel of primary care patients was doing essentially full scope primary care, metabolic, health management, cardiovascular risk management, things like that. This is something that I've been doing for a while, but I think I'm intending to expand given that there's a lot of need out there for it. And Spencer is certainly a leader in this space and we're in this shared communal space of Docs Who Lift who are interested in this topic. And so, yeah, felt like a natural next step to expand my existing practice in a way that is well supported by the organization that Spencer set up. And I'd be happy to have him speak a little bit about how he has it set up and what we're doing there. I'll now be not the strongest doctor at my own clinic. Yeah, so the concept is, so everybody knows, but we're going to talk about these GLP-1 receptor agonists and just the field of this, it's kind of cardiometabolic medicine, I would call it. It's not the old kind of obesity weight loss doctor just focusing on the scale and pounds lost where, and if you obviously people follow the barbell medicine discussions, we're talking about lipid management, probably a lot of blood pressure management, glycemic management. It's really this concept of cardiometabolic, so not just pounds lost, those translate into a lot of cardiometabolic improvements, but you really got to think of this person in their contacts and their comorbidities, so like if they have cardiovascular disease, what if they have liver disease, all sorts of these different angles and it might, it's going to require smart people like Dr. Baraki to think through who are the right candidates for each of these types of medicines. So that's what we're doing. We really think of it as like a, I hate to use the cliche term of holistic care, but really holistic cardiometabolic care that focuses on obesity, but really wraparound care online. That's great. Yeah, we'll put links to that if you want to work with Dr. Baraki, if you want to check out Vineyard, we'll put that in the show notes. Let's get into this podcast. We'll start a little bit, I take a step back. So before we get to the drugs, Dr. Baraki, can you quickly explain what GLP-1 actually is and how it influences our body's function, especially appetite and like feeding behaviors? Yeah, that's a super huge question and we're going to keep this discussion, no, this part of it, the basic science side, I think a little bit high level. So GLP-1 you can think of as a hormone. These are little peptide molecules that our body secretes from one area of the body, end up traveling through the bloodstream and having effects on distant organs and sometimes on more nearby organs. And so GLP-1 or glucagon like peptide 1 is a hormone that is released from the cells of our intestines, usually after food ingestion. It has a few different effects on increasing the secretion of insulin from the pancreas, decreasing secretion of glucagon, slows down gastric emptying. But also we found that these receptors are pretty widely distributed throughout the body and all sorts of tissues and including in the brain. And this is part of how we think that they have a role on impacting and regulating things like appetite and feeding behaviors and things like that. But that they are so widely distributed leads to a lot of the other kind of potential benefits and some of the potential downsides that we'll end up talking about a little bit later. And I think that that's probably about as sufficient of a level of depth as we need for now. Anything important you would add there Spencer? No, I think, yeah, I think that's great. Have you ever talked about like the incretin effect? I think people might be interested in that effect. So the incretin effect, what these drugs are, 50s or 60s, they injected glucose into people's veins versus having people ingest glucose. And like, I don't know, it would make sense that if you injected glucose straight to the veins, the glucose gets to your pancreas quicker. There's a bigger release of insulin as opposed to kind of this delayed increase in glucose in your serum. What they found out is that people that drank the glucose had a larger insulin response area under the curve, total amount of insulin release. And so they called it this incretin effect. They didn't know what the hormones were. They, some intestinal secretion of a hormone. So incretin, they were like, all right, incretin. Then it wasn't until later they found the various incretins out there. And so the GLP-1 was obviously the one that they started going towards for big pharma, some cool history there. But yeah, that's the only thing I would add. It's just a really interesting story of how they discovered this. Yeah, between that and Gila monsters, there's a really interesting background here, but for another podcast. So to Dr. Ndolski, this is something I've seen you talk about and people certainly are going to ask about it. You know, we hear about natures ozempic or like natural ways to boost this GLP-1 hormone that Dr. Baraki just described. Do we actually need drugs for this? Like, do we need pharmacological doses to actually get an effect here? Yeah, so this kind of goes back to the history of this whole figuring out for big pharma, how they try to develop these drugs. We have an enzyme called DPP4, Dipeptylpeptidase 4. It breaks down our own natural incretins or GLP-1 being one of them. So it breaks down within a minute or two. So even if we increase our own natural GLP-1, it doesn't necessarily have the effect on appetite that we'd see with these receptor agonists. We do actually have, and I don't know if you've talked about in the podcast, drugs that inhibit our own DPP4. So like Citagliptin, if people have heard of that, or Genuvia, if you know the brand name. And those can increase our own natural GLP-1 by like two to three fold. But we see glycemic benefits, like blood sugar benefits, but not really weight loss or appetite differences. So we can just briefly chat about the Gila, the Gila monster. I don't know if it's Gila or Gila. It's like a GIF or a GIF. You know, it doesn't really matter. The little lizards out in the desert that they were studying them for. There's a few reasons why, but they thought it might have something to do with blood sugar and serendipitously. They found that the venom was like similar to our own. There was a part of it that was similar to our own GLP-1, but it was resistant to breaking down by our DPP4. So I was like how the first drug, biata, came out or exanitide. And later they've developed these GLP-1 receptor agonists to basically be resistant to our own DPP4. So nature is so nature is ozempic. I just did a video response video. There's an internal medicine doctor saying, you got to eat more fiber and take probiotics to increase your own GLP-1. That's how ozempic works. And it's like, no, these drugs are their own agonists. They are analogs. They're synthetic versions that are not broken down by our own natural enzymes, the DPP4. And that's what makes them so powerful because then they can stick around longer and hit the receptors differently and actually get to the brain to have those appetite effects. Even if we increase our own natural GLP-1, there may be some glycemic benefit, but we're not going to see much of an appetite difference. Yeah. Yeah. I've talked about a few times that like, yeah, you can increase your own GLP-1 a bunch of different ways. Unfortunately, it's usually not large enough and it's not long enough lasting to have the same effects as these medications. So anybody's trying to sell you a GLP-1 supplement, you know, or like a way to increase your own GLP-1. Yeah, you can just ignore them. That's basically a good takeaway there. All right, back to Baraki. Now the science is moving quickly here. So can you walk us briefly through the evolution of these medications from, you know, first short acting injectables? I think you had to do them twice a day. Now we have agents that hit multiple receptors like tersepotide and even some new oral stuff that's coming down the pipeline. Can you talk about this? Yeah, I think a brief overview will be helpful. And it's been really interesting and fun. I think Dr. Nodolski probably shares this because the period during which we went through most of our medical training exactly overlapped with a lot of the development and dissemination and uptake of these medicines. Like I vividly remember being in the endocrine clinic the first time I ever heard of the name Ozympic and I did not have anywhere near the appreciation for what it was going to become or turn into at that moment in time. I was like, oh, this is just another new medicine like any others. Whereas, you know, at the time we were still prescribing these DPP4 inhibitors like Cetagliptin all the time, even though I recognize like this doesn't really work that well, but it's kind of what we have for this particular, you know, situation where the patient wants an oral pill or something like that. But anyway, so yeah, we had the original discovery of endogenous or like natural, the GLP that our body makes on its own that only lasts again for a minute or two before it's broken down. And if I had to summarize the overall evolution of this class of medicines, it's been kind of engineering the molecules to do a few different things. One to make them last longer. So going from, as you said, Exanatide, the first one was a twice a day injection, which didn't even really work all that well. Extending it from twice a day to once a day with medicines like Leraglutide that came and was approved in 2010. Whereas Exanatide was approved in 2005, I just point out the years so that people who question, do we have enough experience with these medicines? They have been around now for a couple decades. So longer duration of action from twice a day to once a day to once a week with medicines like Bigerion or Osempic, Dulaglutide, and some of the most recent ones are all once a week in general. And then we have upcoming ones in the pipeline that are going to be once a month potentially longer, which will come with their own pros and cons to have drugs that act that long in duration. The other general trend that has happened with engineering of these peptides and these molecules is that they have increasing potency. So they achieve more of the effects that we're looking for. So more potency in terms of better weight loss effects and better glycemic effects in terms of blood sugar and diabetes control, among others. And then the last aspect of the engineering that's important is less undesirable side effects, so better tolerability. So these medicines over the years going from that first generation back in 2005 to the next generation around 2010 of Leraglutide, Victosa, Sextenda, things like that to the twenty-teen Sumaglutide, Osempic, Wegovi, and then most recently drugs like Terzepotide, Zepbound, for example. And then most recently the ones that are kind of in the pipeline we're anticipating probably within the next year or so is going to be some of the oral medicines and then some of the even more potent what we'll call multi-agonists or tri-agonists like Rutatrutide. However that is exactly going to be pronounced. And so all of these just in general tend to gradually last longer, more potent good stuff and less bad stuff or better tolerability. I would summarize as the evolution of these medicines over the past twenty years or so. Yeah, that's a good summary and things are moving quickly and it almost seems like daily or weekly that, oh look a new phase two or phase something trial comes out and this one is oral and you can only have to take it. Maybe so often which ultimately I think people are going to prefer more than the injections but cross that bridge when we come to it. Last thing before we start getting into some of the clinical data that has emerged recently on how effective these things are is this concept of food noise. This is all over social media, mainstream media is picked it up as well. Dr. Ndolski, can you talk about this concept of food noise? What is it and how does it relate to this topic? Yeah, so it didn't really come out until these medicines so much. There was this concept of it and it's always kind of been a thing, probably an evolutionary thing because we got to seek out food and think about food to survive. But somewhere along the ways it's likely related to our dysregulated appetites and why we struggle with helping people lose weight and keep it off and people just thinking about food. Now when people are trying to articulate I've asked I don't know how many hundreds of patients about like how would you describe it. And what they describe it's not a craving so cravings are usually something specific so like after dinner I really want some chocolate or potato chips or whatever something very specific. It's not hunger, everybody knows what hunger is you've gone all day and you're like oh my gosh my belly is kind of I need to put something into it. Cravings you know we want the dessert or whatever. Food noise is really just this relentless thinking thoughts about food so what they'll describe is that it's not it could be something healthy it could be something not healthy it's just in general thinking about is there going to be enough to eat at dinner am I going to go get seconds is there going to be dessert afterwards and it's not something specific about it. What about the next day it's all it's like and it's constant they could have just eaten and they still are thinking about food they could be just stuffed and like completely satiated but like still thinking about food and so this is a it's a completely different concept to people and they didn't realize they had it until they started taking the medicine like for example a patient said yeah I was able to enjoy my meal out with my wife because I wasn't thinking about whether my dinner was going to have enough in it I wasn't thinking about the bread that was not here yet it was just like they just actually enjoyed like they they could actually think and this is maybe why some people feel like they they have like less anxiety overall like they feel like they have more brain power to put towards things that matter more in their life as opposed to just always thinking about food really interesting concept and you know there's some new validated questionnaires but in general I just asked my patients like do you think about food when you're not hungry yes and you just you can just ask them almost subjectively to talk about it. Yeah there's like a running joke in like amongst bodybuilder like physique type focus people that are like yeah look I'm eating one meal and then I'm actually thinking about the next meal and on some of it it is it's kind of humorous because it's like yeah we're losing weight and so it's almost like an expected part of the journey but but for them it's not it's it's transient like context specific because they're actively trying to lose weight to get very very lean for a show or something like that and then also it's not like they don't perseverate on this indefinitely whereas I do tend to agree that people who have this maybe aren't even aware that it is a separate entity that's going on until it's gone and they're like what was that that I was always thinking about food one way or another and again not something specific or not like I'm actually hungry but just you know preoccupied yeah with food and then when it's gone they're like huh quiet the noise is gone it's it's it's really interesting so yeah that's just there's some there's some Travis Masterson there's a few of these psychiatry psychology neurobiologists kind of looking into the mechanisms of it all as it's been studied before for eating disorder type behavior kind of ruminating and thinking about food a lot but like it shouldn't happen in obesity constantly they yeah they have enough energy stores so to me it's something pathologic yeah yeah that's the thing you would expect that if a person has expanded energy stores they've developed excess body fat excess adiposity we'll call that obesity that the body would subsequently compensate by reducing energy intake and reducing food seeking behaviors and maybe even increasing activity to sort of maintain a normal and ideally healthy for reproductive fitness in the future level of body fat but that's not what seems to happen in the modern food environment so anyway we could do a whole another podcast on that but let's transition to some of this clinical efficacy data we've talked about some of the basic science here and kind of how they work by targeting appetite and and you know the transit of stuff through the gut but how well do they work so this is to dr. Baraki so dr. Baraki some agglotide or wagovi was studied in a series of studies known as the step and sustain trials those are just acronyms among others what were the main findings of these studies in terms of obesity yeah really encouraging findings overall without getting again too far into the weeds of the statistics and minor you know variations in data between the individual studies because each of these were kind of big collections of a series of studies run looking at slightly different outcomes along the way in general showed excellent effectiveness of these medicines good potency on average you'll hear a lot of kind of average weight loss data cited in these which is just one metric of efficacy that you can look at so on average about 15% weight loss when these drugs were you know studied over about 68 weeks or so compared to placebo at least in the earlier studies as well as the kind of what you would expect to see in terms of reductions in waist measurement reductions in blood pressure reductions in blood sugar hemoglobin A1c things like that again some variation around those numbers but that's kind of like in a commonly cited average weight loss figure but the other useful metric that I like to look at is proportions of patients who achieve the goals that we're looking for right so it's not just what's the average amount of weight loss because there's going to be a distribution around that but there's going to be a distribution around any intervention so if it's a weight loss intervention that's not related to the use of medicines just lifestyle diet exercise some other weight loss related medicine when we talk about what is deemed quote significant weight loss at least for health outcomes what used to be maybe around 5% in some situations you'll hear people quote a little bit higher maybe 7.5% for some medical conditions it's actually even more beneficial to get larger amounts of weight loss what proportion of patients are achieving that level of weight loss if they were to get placebo over that course of time compared with if they get the medicine over that course of time and when I recently pulled some of this data together across a variety of these somagulatide studies and looked at well what proportion of patients achieved greater than 5% weight loss when they were on placebo which was about 30% which is actually a little bit higher than I would expect and the higher than we tend to see in practice but about 86% achieved achieved it on the medicine and so we can see that it shifts dramatically like if you imagine a bell curve of people's responses to these interventions it shifts that whole curve of more people are achieving the target regardless of what the average amount of weight loss is but we're getting more people the outcome that we're looking for which then translates into a lot more downstream benefits on health which is the main thing that we're talking about here so that's my overall take on this amalgamate data yeah not only like a big effect so like just in general greater amount of weight loss so people achieving that clinically significant weight loss that they go beyond that but a greater proportion of folks make it there too compared to lifestyle alone so yeah exactly big big effects here Spencer Terzepotide or Zepbound Manjaro has been studied in the Sermount trials and now what were the findings from these studies that you found most compelling and maybe you can contrast those to what we learned from about semaglutide from the previous data yeah somewhere around like 30 or so percent stronger in terms of total amount of weight loss and you can see the responder data the categorical weight loss is just stronger as well so we see just over like a 20 or so 21% total body weight loss over the course of like 72 weeks and so they've done a head-to-head in one of these studies and showed like it's better a little bit better tolerated and anecdotally we noticed that as well so a stronger drug that's better tolerated just a better profile in general we didn't get into like the select trial with the cardiovascular disease reduction with semaglutide but like patients prefer Terzepotide so we're thinking about 20 21% total body weight loss versus like the 15 or so percent total body weight loss with semaglutide high dose semaglutide actually they will probably talk about they did another study step up they did a very very high dose we go be semaglutide they got a little bit more like 17 or 18 percent total body weight loss with that but in general even just the lower doses of even 5 milligrams of Terzepotide which is the second lowest dose gets about the same that you would see with 2.4 that the previously highest dose of we go be semaglutide better tolerated it's just I'm not even paid by Lily but yeah I did AI did a novo ad board and I just felt bad because I'm just like like the Lily drugs better but like if you can make this cheaper so anyway I like Terzepotide much better just the data is pretty clear on that yeah it does sound like Terzepotide is generally superior to semaglutide all else being equal but dr. Baraki what is this what does the pipeline look like our triple agonist like retracer tide gonna push this even further and like is that what we think the advantage is to Terzepotide yeah I think so it's interesting to see because I think a general theme in in medicine and a lot of other areas is like when you see a drug or an intervention that has a lot more potency you might in generally expect okay well more effect in general might also come with more adverse effects in general and so seeing the effects of I guess bioengineering really smart people doing these things to these peptides to achieve simultaneously higher efficacy of the things we want with less adverse effects of the things we don't want is a really unique combination and speaks to the level of I don't know expertise and incentives that are at play for them to get this right and so that's what we're seeing with the newer agents like the one you just mentioned what what's being termed a quote unquote triple agonist because it hits multiple different receptors and again setting the details of that basic science aside hitting multiple receptors lets us target multiple different pathways to achieve the effects we want and add on additional beneficial things we've talked about this before for example when we recently did like our blood pressure update and I talked about how a lot of the time when I have a patient who's willing to do it I tend to use multiple lower dose medicines to get the bang for my buck from multiple meds with less side effect risk same thing with lipid or cholesterol lowering therapies using different medicines at lower doses that work in different ways because we know that hitting different pathways that all kind of converge on a similar outcome we can get a lot of effectiveness and by keeping the doses on the lower side if that's feasible for a given patient then we can mitigate and avoid most of the tolerability type of issues and so what we're seeing with these triple agonists and the data coming from reticitoride is that it is more potent achieving now into the mid 20s on average like 24 25% say weight loss starting to compete with metabolic bariatric surgery efficacy and then also having some seemingly you know unique aspects to it the glucagon receptor that it targets I've seen some discussion that it maybe like increases energy expenditure maybe helps to accelerate you know the resolution of fatty liver disease as a result of that maybe a little bit more lean lean mass sparing which is would be awesome as well and so again I think the level of expertise and incentives at getting this right are leading to just phenomenal development of these things to get all the things we want with less and less of the things we don't want coming out. Yeah yeah I found this the development pathway super interesting mainly because as you said the incentives it's like oh look if we can make this work better with less side effects yeah we're going to do it and it's like wait if Big Pharma was super evil like that doesn't necessarily seem like the the move there but yeah it would be interesting to see if RETA gets you know once it gets past all the phase three clinical trials and there's some better dosing and and monitoring sort of profiles available for that but yeah it's out in the wild people are obviously like using these research chemicals which we're going to talk about shortly not not my favorite thing but we'll talk about that before we get there though Dr. Ndolski because of this pipeline is being just kind of pushed to the to the nth degree there are some oral options coming down the the pipeline and I suspect as I talked about earlier that people are going to prefer an oral option compared to you know self-ejecting or whatever what are you expecting from some of these oral options coming out? Yeah there are two one two of them that are going to come out six to twelve months from now they just actually just put on a fast track for or for or for glipron I used to say or for glipron but it's apparently or for glipron whatever it's a small molecule I suppose a big huge peptide that you have to inject or with the semaglutide um oral you have to put it in this special packaging that changes the pH of your stomach to be able to actually not break it down and absorb it which I'll talk about in a second more or for glipron is a small molecule so you can actually take it orally with food you don't have to worry about drinking tons of water or anything other medicines interfering that I know of and it has you know around like 10-11 percent total body weight loss we don't have all those cardiovascular trial data like we do with the oral semaglutide which I'll talk about in a second but you know somewhere around like a 10-11 percent total body weight loss there's it's supposed to be cheaper because it's easier to make because it's just a regular molecule instead of a peptide that needs all this special transporting and things like that so I'm kind of excited to see that because if it's cheaper and we'll talk about the prices and stuff about people trying to maintain their weight loss and having to come off the medicine because of price this might be something that would be of use there and hopefully they do cardiovascular I think they're going to do some cardiovascular trials to make sure as we've seen before other drugs or we thought we're going to be really good you know in the end there might have been some bad things happening that we just didn't know about and some of the oral drugs oral small molecule GLP-1 drugs that didn't come to the market they found some of these through the phase two phase one phase two  linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, linguparnutens, phase 3 trials and even further post-market surveillance. So that's or for glip-ron, small molecule, not a large peptide. They can make it easier to make, cheaper to do. They have a ton of it stockpiled that they're ready to launch here. Again, I'm not getting paid by Lily, but it's excited. That's a Lily drug. The other one is high dose oral semagletype. So we already have this available in the form of a type 2 diabetes branded drug, which is ribelsis. If anybody's heard of that, that's been out for quite a number of years now. Not super popular, popular though, it goes up to 14 milligrams. This new higher dose version, they're going to call allegedly call it like oral we go via. That's what I've heard through the pipeline, which I don't know, but whatever oral we go be, that's what they're going to call it. So it's high dose. They actually studied it first at 50 milligrams. That's 50, 50 milligrams. So it's about a 10, a 10 fold difference in absorption. I talked to a farm D on my podcast all about it. So they put in 50, but then they found that the 25 worked pretty, pretty well. And it's a brown, you know, somewhere around 14, 15% total body weight loss. It's not bad, not a bad option. And they have that cardiovascular disease data that we can discuss here, but not a bad option, but it is, it has to be packaged in the snack package that allows your stomach to absorb it. Because otherwise, if you take an oral peptide, it gets degraded by your own stomach acids, and won't be absorbed, it'd be broken up and everything. So they have to put it in this special thing. You have to take it with a tiny little bit of water in the morning, no food for a while. Now the question of whether people would prefer it. So what's interesting is my patients almost love the weekly injection. It's because I thought the same thing, maybe people love taking just a pill. They love just because the needles are so small, they're teeny tiny and they're, some people are afraid of needles and like, just do it and you'll see what happens. And they're like, I didn't even feel anything. So a lot of patients actually love the weekly injection, but I don't know, we'll see. I think really what it comes down to is price. If you can make these things cheaper, and that's going to take the cake. Whatever is the most powerful, but then the expense really takes the next. Yeah, not that anybody's asking me to name drugs, but like oral Zempik seems like a way better thing than like oral Wigovic. Yeah, look, I'm available. If you guys need me to consult on drug naming, I'm here. All right, well look, we've talked about some of the efficacy very, very effective, but there are some cool other benefits to these medications that have been coming out. And I think there's some interesting stuff here, not only with like weight loss associated benefits and things like heart disease, a certain type of cancer and so on and so forth, but also weight independent effects. So like maybe these medications do something on their own to reduce the risk of either disease development or disease progression that's independent of weight loss. So Dr. Ndolski, what have trials shown so far in terms of like the impact on heart health or cardiovascular health from these drugs? Yeah, so the semaglutide is the big one that we saw a couple of years ago. Actually, it's pretty much two years ago, the select trial. At least the top line results came out. I believe the full study came out, but select trial was Wigovic and those with a history of obesity and cardiovascular disease and not type 2 diabetes. So we've seen benefit in the past. My brother always talks about the leader trial with loraglutide. Now that was like whatever it was 10 years ago. So that was the first drug to show cardiovascular benefit and those with type 2 diabetes at high risk, cardiovascular disease. This was the first one that I know of that people did not have type 2 diabetes, but had a history baseline cardiovascular disease. And what they showed is a reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events. And they've done further analyses that show like it doesn't look like it's, it looks like it's mostly maybe at least two thirds of it's unrelated or independent of the weight loss. And when you look back at studies, we thought that like around a 10% total body weight loss, whether it was from lifestyle, bariatric surgery would lead to reductions in cardiovascular events. So that's kind of what they were thinking. But now with some of these other drugs, like they've had older GLP-1 receptor agonists, alboglutide was one of them. There was a, that was for type 2 diabetes, but people didn't lose any weight, but they still improved their cardiovascular event reduction, like there was improvement there. So there are receptors all over the myocardium. There are receptors in our endothelial tissue. There's, there's receptors changes in our immune system. Something's going on with this GLP-1 receptor agonism that goes beyond just the weight loss. Of course, we're going to see blood pressure improvements. We're going to see lipid improvements and just overall mass in general, which may be a less strain on the heart. But like there's something else going on just from taking a GLP-1 receptor agonist. So for the heart, I think that's what's really exciting. We're, we're waiting on terzepotide data. There's a terzepotide study similar, but they're actually doing in like primary prevention as well. I don't know, primus, so I'm sure you've all talked about differences between primary and secondary prevention. So primary would be preventing that first heart attack, secondary as somebody's had a heart attack or heart event, and you're preventing another one. So the terzepotide, the Sermount MMO they're looking at like, it's going to be really interesting. I think it's going to be positive though and good. Yeah. No, this is just a brief aside. You're hearing Dr. Baraki, Dr. Ndolsky, and sometimes myself talk about all these various studies that are very specific to a particular intervention, in this case of medication, in a particular population to come up with a particular outcome to see if that changes. Contrast this to mechanistic data in exercise science, where it's like, look, if you, you know, fast, then your growth hormone level goes up. Some percentage and people are like, yeah, that'll probably lead to more muscle mass. And it's like, do you know how many steps you've skipped in the middle to get to that point? And in medical research, particularly in agents that have a lot of evidence and data behind them, you can feel quite confident in saying, look, if you are in this population, you have a high probability of seeing some level of this effect, and it's relatively well characterized, which I find very reassuring just to like, you know, if you're advising somebody on taking these medications or to not take these medications, or other medications that can all be useful there compared to, it's mostly vibes. Like, we have like a mechanistic like plausibility, but we don't have like good outcome data, or the outcome data we do have is not good. In that case, you're like, I don't even know why we're talking about this, but just a brief aside anyway. Also, I see this on threads, there was just, they're talking about this a very quick tangent, people do this with drugs and doctors. I think it's because they don't understand study design and how to design trials to look at outcomes. So menopausal hormonal therapy, they're saying reduces cardiovascular events. It's like, it's a whole thing, we could do a whole podcast on that. And so Austin and I were going on threads, I saw, I noticed he jumped in and it's just, but it's not just exercise science. It's unfortunately a lot of other places too. Austin and I have, I think turned into Clippy, the, from Microsoft Word, the little guy. So we're like, hi there. What do you think the best direct human evidence is to show that this actually, you know, I enjoy it. I show up in my feet and I always like it because it's always so funny. I'm always like, Oh my gosh. Yeah, you and your brother are, we like, we like seeing your likes because it makes us feel good about what we're doing. So to Austin, you know, what about other major organ diseases like that of the kidney and that other liver? I know there's evidence coming out here. So what do we know on that front with respect to these anti obesity medications? Yeah, several years back, there were just a broad policy about medicines that were being looked at for use in diabetes that they were essentially all being required to look at cardiovascular outcomes, these things like heart attacks and strokes and things like that. But interestingly, we're also accumulating evidence in other very, very common organ system diseases. Obviously, as I mentioned, I'm sitting here speaking to you from the hospital where I have a ward full of patients with all of these things, be it cardiovascular issues, heart attack and heart failure, which have been looked at with these medicines, as well as various levels, degrees of chronic kidney disease, all the way up to dialysis patients. And then my least favorite and the most horrific is advanced liver disease, which is something that we see more and more of these days. So when I went through training, I saw boatloads of, for example, hepatitis C-related cirrhosis, now that we can cure that condition, seeing less and less of that, but much more fatty liver disease that has progressed to steatohepatitis and then cirrhosis as a result, and then the complications of that. And so when this has been examined so far, for example, in the flow trial, looked at GLP-1 agonist and what they called kind of this kidney events to borrow a term from the cardiovascular literature, things like progression of chronic kidney disease or death related to kidney related causes, these medicines are showing benefit in that realm. And then similarly, when we look at, for example, the rates of fatty liver disease or resolution or improvement in fatty liver disease, improvement in inflammatory markers around fatty liver disease, which would all lead to a reduction in the risk of progression to cirrhosis and all of those really horrific complications that I have the pleasure of dealing with in the hospital, the more potent these medicines get, the more benefit we're seeing on fatty liver disease. And that's what I mentioned earlier, the interesting kind of maybe unique aspect of RETA that you mentioned as one that can maybe increase some energy expenditure, maybe has some unique benefits on the liver, whether or not that ends up panning out and being fully accurate, just the sheer amount of weight loss that these things can induce. Once you get well beyond 7.5 to 10% of weight loss, we can see essentially curing a fatty liver disease, which would be great to reduce the burden of chronic liver disease worldwide. So not only heart, but also kidney and liver, like three of the major chronic organ system type of conditions that are often also comorbid. They have led to this development of a new term that they're calling CKM syndrome or cardiovascular kidney metabolic syndrome that kind of encompasses all of these things. People having heart disease and liver disease from fatty liver and kidney disease as very frequently overlapping in patients. And we have increasingly potent and increasingly well tolerated agents in these medication classes that can somehow simultaneously benefit all of them, not only because they have a shared mechanism, but also because of some of these weight independent effects that Spencer alluded to earlier. Yeah, maybe we can rebrand CKM as type three diabetes so people don't inadvertently refer to that as like dementia, which is definitively not the case. That's another like quack watch, red flag, if somebody calls dementia of any kind type three diabetes, you just block and move on. So you make these sense. Yeah, that's right. Before moving on to some of the side effects we're going to talk about, there is other areas of emerging evidence coming out for everything from like sleep apnea to addiction, some forms of cancer, so on and so forth. So I'll have both of you weigh in on this. Start with you Spencer. What are some of these areas, these other areas, these medications could be effective based on the emerging evidence? Yeah, so obstructive sleep apnea is pretty well established. There's a surmount OSA trial. That's why they've actually made it FDA approved for those with obesity and obstructive sleep apnea. Medicare even allows for it. We see sometimes a resolution in obstructive sleep apnea. People stop needing their CPAPs. It's not all the time. Weight loss doesn't always improve obstructive sleep apnea or resolve it as there can be some anatomical differences. But when you start getting that 10, 15 percent total body weight loss, we start seeing reductions in the apnic events from obstructive sleep apnea. So pretty good data there. There's another drug called Q-Symia that actually it's not FDA approved for, but it's a fentramient topirame combo. So we do know that a lot of weight loss can result in improvements in obstructive sleep apnea. I do believe most of that is weight dependent. However, some argue there may be some other weight independent effects. I just, it would be hard to tease that out exactly, but kind of interesting there. From addiction, so there is a there's a new another lily. I swear I'm not getting paid by lily, but they just, they just we should get paid. You know, honestly, I'm going to text them after this because I have a direct line as part of like, I'm like, look, you guys, like, you guys got to start putting me on your ad boards. We'll see what happens there. But they're, they're starting to trying to find drugs that are made for alcohol cessation. I had a so funny, so stupid, but I had a viral tick talk of a few years ago when I started using a lot of manjarro is it was the type two diabetes version of Terzepetide. When that first came out, I was using a lot of it off label and people right away were like, wow, this is so weird. I don't really want to drink alcohol. And I was like, really? So I actually published some retrospective data of all of the changes in alcohol intake from our patient population of like tens of thousands of patients kind of kind of cool to see that. So I believe that we're going to see, we're going to see other addictive like behaviors, people not biting their nails anymore, maybe even some gambling sex addiction type of stuff, opioid addiction type of things that the drugs have a strong response in the reward center of our brains. And really stuff. So I think we're going to see addictive like behavior improvements there. Other things, so anti inflammatory things. So psoriatic arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, some of my patients notice, wow, I was on my biologic and it kind of helped me with my psoriatic arthritis, but it wasn't until I started Terzepetide. Again, this is anecdotal, but when you go to Eli Lilly's research page of what they're looking at the trials are doing, they are looking into this. So big pharma is not stupid. They're not going to pay good Gillian's amount of dollars to look into some silly anecdote. They're clearly seeing the signal too. So I think we're going to see a lot of really interesting stuff there. I see gynecological improvements. People start having normalized menstrual cycles. There's GLP-1 receptors and the uterus ovaries and in the hypothalamic pituitary region. I don't know. It is some interesting stuff. So. Yeah. Some of the most interesting stuff I've seen come out has to do with like cancer risk reduction. And it almost seems like, you know, not to get too technical or jargony, you know, pleotropic effects of these medications. They're just affecting multiple different areas. Look, if there's a receptor there or like something that these things combine to, it seems to have a decent effect. Dr. Baraki, what's your take on this like cancer risk reduction? What's up with that? Yeah, I think that it's really difficult to study in the way it has been studied so far. You know, cancer is a very heterogeneous disease. There's so many different types of cancers they develop by way of so many different types of exposures and things like that. So like looking at acute leukemia, for example, and comparing that to, you know, estrogen sensitive breast cancer, they're like completely different pathologies. And so lumping these things into big buckets and looking at it in an observational way, which also lumps in a whole lot of other, you know, variables that are not being equally distributed in a randomized trial makes it kind of tricky. I find it plausible that there will be, that there could be some impact on cancer incidents, particularly among the adiposity associated cancers and things like that. But that's something that I would want, I think, higher quality data to try to tease apart to what Spencer mentioned earlier. We already have, for example, some of that insleep apnea. We already have that in osteoarthritis. We're looking or expecting that hopefully coming soon in some of the addiction space. And, you know, I have some concerns around, you know, judicious use of those medicines in the addiction space knowing that, hey, well, a lot of the patients that I see, because I see tons of alcohol related issues in the hospital setting, I have a few, as we speak, who are not very well nourished, for example. And so then what's going to be the impact? They're not very well muscled. They're not very well nourished. They don't have, you know, high quality diets. They're not exercising. If I induce 20% weight loss in this person whose diet is comprised mostly of alcohol, what's the impact going to be? So there's some thoughts and concerns, which is the lesser harm there, right? And in general, I'm trying to get people to drink less. And I will tend to accept a fair amount of risk in other ways, because alcohol is like the most harmful thing that they might be doing. So there are going to be a lot of considerations around all of these areas. I share some of his observations around PCOS. There's also conversations around like maybe neuro-protection, dementia risk, things like that, that will also be super interesting, because, you know, we've seen cardiovascular disease remains the number one killer, but on a per capita basis, rates of death from cardiovascular disease can have been declining for decades now. We're making a lot of progress there with all the tools that we have at our disposal. Now we seem to have one that's going to be helpful for obesity and the obesity-associated comorbidities. The longer we live without dying of things like cardiovascular disease or kidney disease or liver disease, the longer our lifespans extend. It's going to be more and more cancer and more and more neurodegenerative disease. And so if these have a favorable impact on those things, that would be a win on those fronts as well. So super interested to see how it plays out. Yeah, what I'm hearing you say is that if we just take terzepotide or some aglutide and you stack it with creatine, effectively you're going to live forever. 10 grams still, right? Yeah, no, it's 30 grams. 30 grams. More grams. All the grams. All the yeah, so many grams. All right, well let's transition to some of the side effects because with any effective medication there are no biological free lunches here. There are risks and side effects. So let's discuss some of the common side effects and some of the rare but serious ones. So Spencer, what are the most frequent side effects that people should be prepared for? And you know, how do you go about dealing with them in your practice? Yeah, by far number one is nausea. Very common. We saw this very early on with exenotide or bietta and all the GLP-1 receptor agonists. In fact, many of the haters would say, look, people just lose weight because they're nauseous all the time and throwing up, which is plausible, I suppose. If people are, you know, you get sick from a GI bug and you don't want to eat, you lose some weight. And if you feel like that all the time, that can make sense. But when you look at the data, it's pretty clear that the nauseous, the highest in the beginning and the longer you've on the medicine, it tends to go away for pretty much everybody. For most people, it's mild to moderate at first, very once in a while, it's more moderate to severe where you have to intervene with an anti-nausea medicine. We try to minimize it with our diet. I have dietitians and they, we try to promote kind of a lower fat diet. Now there's reasons why this may be higher fat. So like chips, fries, pizza, burgers, wings, that type of thing may be increasing that nausea in the beginning. It could be because the gastric emptying is slowing. So you put more fat in the gut and then it's more having an increase in other things like CCK and other hormones that from the fat intake that can also increase nausea. So potentially, I don't know what, but lower fat diets tend to help minimize this and maybe smaller, maybe more frequent meals, not the booster metabolism or anything like that, but to help with the nausea. And you don't have to do that long term. It's, this is again, the nausea is high in the beginning. When you look at the trial data, it doesn't matter what trial it is, some aglutide, tresepitide, they show the trial data, it's all picked up in the beginning. And then as the trial goes on, the nausea goes down. Sometimes we have to do Zofran or on Dancitron to help with the nausea. In general though, most people don't have to do that. So that's, that's number one. I do see a lot of constipation. Unlike nausea, it's constant. So you have to get in front of it early. Lots of fiber, lots of fluid, physical activity, the very standard things we do for constipation. Sometimes we add a laxative and or add some fiber supplements and things like that. But constipation is pretty common. Try to get in front of it to minimize that. Reflex, if you're slowing down the gastric emptying in your stomach, there's more of a chance for food and stuff to come back up to your esophagus cause reflux. So we do see that. So people with a history of reflex, we're like, all right, we got to be careful here. You might get some worsening. Don't stop your memprisal or whatever right now. Sometimes they need to add it back in for a little bit. Hopefully over time that improves. And generally we see that improve because that gastric emptying is higher in the beginning and then wanes or even goes down a lot at the end of or while you're on the drug longer. We do see diarrhea, usually self limited. Generally we try to help people bulk up their stools if happy, but it's usually self limited. Sometimes I do pepto, sometimes I do amodium. Generally something that goes away over time. We see fatigue. A lot of people thought, well, yeah, you're not eating. You're going to be tired or something about the drug and this likely has to do with the brain effects of the drug, the receptor agonism in the drug. We're talking about the dopamine where people feel like not as addictive, but sometimes it's got a pretty strong effect up there. Almost they feel like like an anhedonia, like just kind of like they feel unmotivated and tired. That happens. Sometimes you're going to adjust the dose. Sometimes it's just at the beginning. The fatigue generally goes away by itself though. And you know, a lot of people argue over the cause of it, but it's likely in the brain. Some of it maybe because you're not eating as much, but it's you'll feel it like a couple days after your shot. And then it goes away after a few more days. Kind of interesting. Worst side effects, gallstones probably. We see that because of weight loss likely. There may be an effect of GLP-1 on the actual gallbladder and changes of how it's moving. We can see gallstones precipitate, but we see that with any type of weight loss bariatric surgery. And from that, we can see, you know, the colostitis or gallbladder attacks rarely pancreatitis. When you compare placebo to the active drug in these big, huge trials, they put them together in a meta analysis. There doesn't seem to be a statistical difference between the drug and a placebo. But patients like, yeah, it causes pancreatitis. So it's not different from placebo. So those are the common thing we can, I don't know if you want to awesome wants to talk about the black box warning of thyroid cancer and all the scary things people talk about. But those are kind of the common things. Yeah, I was going to echo much of what you said. And the pancreatitis one is interesting for several reasons because pancreatitis is a relatively common condition. Like it's a it's something that also just happens to people sometimes in general. It happens relating to alcohol use pretty often. It can happen related to gallstone related causes very often as well. And I see it right very regularly in the hospital setting. And so given that there's a relatively high what we'll call like base rate of people experiencing pancreatitis, that also increases the risk of like, well, also there's a high base rate of people getting put on these medicines. And so there's going to be a scenario where somebody gets put on one of these medicines. And because they were just existing, they were going to get pancreatitis anyway. And humans that what we do in our brains is we tend to, you know, observe patterns and assume causation between them. Well, I started this medicine and afterwards I got pancreatitis. So it needs it must be that one caused the other. And that is a reasonable hypothesis to have. But that's also why we benefit from having controlled trials. And that's where this interesting observation comes from in the control trials that when we compare people on drug versus on placebo, we don't actually see a significant difference in that pancreatitis risk, even though there is a higher risk of developing gallstones relating to the rapid weight loss. It's like all the signs you would expect there to be a signal, but there doesn't actually, it doesn't actually lead to the outcome that you would expect, which is again, why we benefit from these kinds of studies and why all three of us get in arguments on threads all the time, because people make arguments based on vibes or observations or just assuming patterns exist. Whereas when we actually control the data to account for our own flawed assumptions and tendency to draw patterns where none might exist, we actually can get to the truth of the matter. So pancreatitis ends up being something that I don't tend to like routinely counsel on, because what are you going to do aside from, well, I already advised that you probably shouldn't be drinking very much. We're advising weight loss regardless here. And so there's a risk of gallstone development with rapid weight loss, no matter how we go about it. And that's something that we can be attentive to and intervene on if we need to. So that's just an interesting aspect of the data that all the things that you might observe or anecdotally hear or expect based on some of these things don't actually tend to pan out the way that we thought. Yeah. And just lastly, before we get into some of the body composition and performance stuff, Dr. Ndolski, there's been some concern about this non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy or NAION, this irreversible eye condition causes partial or complete vision loss in one or both eyes. And this is a major lawsuit against a Novo notice right now, like for that. You see that all over the place. There's a $2 billion lawsuit against the manufacturers because these drugs, who they don't want you to know, they're taking your vision. Is there any merit to that? Yeah, notice it's not against Eli Lilly. Someone from those departments, they're going to come get me. I'm actually friends with a lot of those people. And they're always switching teams all the time, so it doesn't really matter. But it is true. There are some lawsuits out there. It's a rare risk. We had my buddy, an ophthalmologist, Retinove specialist on, there was a JAMA article last year that's looked at a group of people on semaglutide with type 2 diabetes that showed a maybe a small, maybe one in like 10,000 people, increased risk of people on the medicine, maybe an increased risk of this type of blindness. But then more recently this year in Journal of Ophthalmology, they showed maybe a trend towards a decreased risk, at least not statistically significant, just no statistical significant risk compared to people not taking the medicine in a similar population. So if it is a risk, and what my friend told me is that we see it from people's blood pressure going down and usually in the middle of the night, I could see it where the medicine it's just so powerful and people are still on their blood pressure medicine, they may have sleep apnea where they're going apnoic and not getting as much blood flow and oxygen into their blood, where there may be maybe there's some sort of risk there. But like the most recent data doesn't show doesn't show the signal. If it is there, it's extremely rare. It hasn't been seen in any of the weight loss data. It's only in these patients with type 2 diabetes where maybe there's an increased risk anyway. I'm not super concerned, but patients are concerned. I wouldn't want to go blind. So we try to, you know, talk about these, you know, try to talk about the data. I would just say, look, I don't the signal is not there in the most recent analysis. It's in semaglutide only and those with type 2 diabetes potentially maybe there's some plausibility there. But I would just, if it's there, it's extremely rare. Yeah. All right. I feel satisfied there. We can now move on to some of the other risks and potential side effects that would maybe be pertinent to our listenership because we're talking about gains, talking about body composition and performance. So Austin, you know, a lot of people talk about the potential risk of losing all of your muscle when you go on these agents, you know, maybe speak more broadly about, look, why is losing lean body mass a problem with weight loss in general? And then what is the long-term consequence of that, you know, for health and performance? Yeah, before we get into that, I do think it's worth pointing out because a lot of these terms can get conflated and definitions can get baked into one another in ways where one audience might hear and interpret this term lean body mass in one way where it's not necessarily being intended in that exact way. Body composition science is complicated. And I know Spencer will get into this a little bit as well. But what is lean body mass mean? What is fat free mass mean? What is muscle mass mean? You know, all these things have very specific definitions. And so it's important to be clear on what you're talking about. So the haters, Spencer referred them, described them earlier, use this kind of terminology. And they seem to imply that these drugs have a unique effect on reducing or impairing your muscle mass in particular, potentially baking in bone bone into that as well. And that's a strong claim that would require direct evidence showing that when these medicines are used, that there is a substantially greater degree of specifically muscle mass and or bone mass compared with equivalent amounts of weight loss by other means. When we look at this, we'll get into the specifics of what's observed, but it is  is a valid concern, just to address your question directly, that if people are losing significant amounts of muscle mass and bone mass, yeah, I would have some concerns about that. I see the end stages of frailty, catechia, people who have severe sarcopenia, osteopenia, osteoporosis, people who fall, they lose their physical independence, they have fractures, they need to go to nursing homes, things like that. I've been seeing that my entire medical career so far in the hospital setting, and it's not like I have seen, for example, over the course of the past decade, oh, gosh, I'm admitting these people left and right for GLP-1-induced osteosarcopenia, and they're all needing to go to nursing homes because they can't stand up out of a chair anymore. That's where a strong claim is going to need some strong evidence to support it, or we need to look at it more directly. Those are some of the reasons why we care about lean body mass, is that risk of long-term musculoskeletal health, physical function, independence, things like that. That would be the question, is do we see higher rates of those things specifically being impaired from the use of these medicines compared with, if you lost 15%, 20%, 25%, whatever amount of weight lost through diet, or through metabolic bariatric surgery, do you see that more, do you see it less, does it seem to be about the same, are there ways, if it's a real thing, can we mitigate it? What exactly are we talking about? Is it muscle, is it bone, is it just lean body mass, which includes body water, all sorts of other tissue compartments and things like that, organ mass, stuff like that. That's my broad take on it. Yeah, just to summarize for the listenership, the claim is, by again the haters, is that these particular drugs, anti-obesity medications at large, have a unique effect on the skeletal muscle tissue that results in more proportional muscle loss per unit weight loss. What's widely quoted in the literature for just like diet induced weight loss is that about 75% of the weight you lose is going to be fat mass and 25% is going to be not fat mass. Some of that is going to be actual skeletal muscle fibers, but to Austin's point, some of it's just going to be other things that aren't muscle, but are also not fat. Literature then would show you that per pound people lose when they take these medications that more than 25% would be not fat mass that people were losing. So the question to you, Dr. Ndolski, is what do you think about the actual risk of losing skeletal muscle mass in relationship to these drugs? I mean, again, there's been a problem that's been a lot of concern over this on social media, especially in the fitness space. Is this a real risk? Like, is that, is this real? Yeah, some history around it really is the Peter Tia, which my brother and I call our podcast, the Peter Tia Hader podcast. And not because he's generally okay. It's just some hyperbolic statements. He was on the Megan Kelly show a couple of years ago and said that his patient got fatter, quote, fatter on this medicine. They lost more muscle than they did fat. It's kind of interesting, nice anecdote there. But then he has pulled up that the step trials, there was a subgroup analysis, a subgroup dexa of some of these patients that use semaglutide in the step trials, which is the obesity trials with semaglutide, high dose semaglutide. And it looked like somewhere around 38 or 39% fat free mass loss. So it's kind of like, well, that is more than we'd expect. But Dr. Brachy said fat free mass loss isn't necessarily muscle. So when you look at a dexa scan, and this is why I have a chief science officer, Grant Tinsley, he's literally a body composition expert. He would talk circles around me in terms of how to look at these different compartment models where they look at body composition, because a dexa scan, like, oh, yeah, you got your body fat percentage there. But it's because it looks at fat free mass and fat mass. And so like pretty much everything that's not fat mass, like, oh, they lost this much fat free mass, but some a lot of that includes glycogen is the interesting thing when they did the same subgroup analysis in the surmount data, the terzapentide data, it was around 25%. So a pronger drug that resulted in more weight loss actually resulted in about what we would expect amount of fat free mass loss, which we assume if we're just making assumptions has a similar composition of that fat free mass loss with muscle. So similar to what we see with just dieting alone or bariatric surgery alone. So then the claim would have to be something about some agglutide specifically is extra catabolic beyond its ability to help people lose weight beyond this calorie deficit. And there's nothing biologically plausible to make that accurate. What I personally think is that there's some sort of fluid shift because of the GLP-1 receptors we've, Dr. Baraki talked about the kidneys in the flow trial. I don't know if there's some diet, diresis effect, there's some fluid shifting, but it's very possible what looks like an increased fat free mass loss is literally glycogen or fluid changes. That's what I think because otherwise it doesn't really make sense. And having said that, we are doing studies in our online clinic. So we're, we partnered with Dexafit and Dr. Tinsley is doing all this where he actually looks at lean soft tissue. So trying to, trying to nail it down to closer to the muscle tissue. And we, we did a case series, but we have a whole cohort going on. We don't have the data from that yet. And it looks like if you just lift some weights and we're not talking about like barbell medicine style, you're freaking obsessed with it. Even if you're just kind of like doing like basic two days a week of like what would be recommended and eating sufficient amounts of protein. You're not loading up your each plate with protein and eating, you know, a gram per pound of body weight. We're talking like one to 1.2 grams per kilogram of body weight, even somewhere around there with just a couple to two to three days a week of resistance trading full body or splits. You pretty much mitigate it all or minimize it all. So I'm not worried. I think, I think it's good that it's brought this whole thing to the forefront, but I think it's, I think the whole concern is overblown. And I think it's just a reason for what we call weight stigma where it's like, no, we don't want people to lose weight. You know, they reduce their risk of heart attacks. They have less liver disease and kidney disease and fewer strokes, but oh my God, they lost some extra fat free mass in there. So watch out. These drugs are bad. I think it's just people are looking for a smoking gun to say, so you can't get out of the hard work. And that's my, that's my, probably my bias opinion, but I just from a clinical standpoint, I'm not, I'm not concerned. I want people to lift weights and eat protein, but like I'm not concerned if like they don't and, and they lose this amount of fat free mass percentage wise. Yeah. Yeah. Two additional points. If you actually look at that subgroup analysis in the step trial and you look at the placebo group who was just doing lifestyle stuff alone, they also lost more proportional lean mass than you'd expect. So to me, it almost is like, perhaps there's an artifact of the measurement technique, at least that's a positive possibility. But even the latest trial, the semilean study where they had folks on max dose semaglutide, and then they did dexa scans on all these people, it wasn't 75, 25, it was 80, 20. And I was like, ooh, that's interesting. It, is there a muscle preservation effect? Perhaps even, and there's some animal models to support that. I don't think that's true to me. That seems like within the realm of like what's expected. But I just find these concerns about losing so much muscle mass that now you're the, you have sarcopenia because of reduced muscle function from all that muscle loss due to these medications. That seems like an overblown risk compared to the potential benefits everywhere else across the board. Yes, if you have somebody where you have concerns about frailty initially, they're probably not a great candidate for a GLP one or other anti-OBC medication, although that does get a little more tricky when you talk about like sarcopenic obesity. Because that was also assessed in the semilean study where they, you know, 49% of the starting population had sarcopenia is diagnosed by, I think it was hand grip strength and the appendicular skeletal muscle mass. And then at the end of the year, only 33% had it. So it seemed like even though they lost maybe some lean mass, their actual function or muscle quality improved. So I don't know. It seems pretty interesting to me. Yeah. This is just not fundamentally a major concern that I have. I agree with Spencer's take in general and just look at the major outcomes that we care about. And if somebody says, well, the outcome that I care about is my lean mass and I don't actually care about cardiovascular risk and kidney risk and fatty liver risk and diabetes risk and I'm unconcerned with the amount of fat mass the person carries. This is my like myopic focus is just on lean mass. Okay. Don't take the drug. Like nobody's worried when I can take it. Yeah. But every other area that I'm concerned about is my lean mass. So I'm concerned about the area of health and like what we'll call hard outcomes, things that we really care about the most seem to be benefited. And if we were seeing, you know, because we know that sarcopenia, for example, an osteopenia and osteoporosis, they increase the risk of certain things. And so if those risks panned out, we would expect to see those signals in the data. I would expect to see, oh gosh, we're seeing way more hip fractures in these patients or we're seeing way more falls or we're seeing, you know, all sorts of things. If that doesn't show up, then this is an unsupp... This remains in the realm of hypothesis, but not something that's going to impact clinical decision making. So yeah, I agree. It doesn't take a ton of training and it doesn't actually take a ton of protein to, you know, mitigate lean mass loss to the extent it's going to happen here, especially in under-trained or insufficiently active people at the start. And the training is the thing that I emphasize even more than the protein. Like if somebody's willing to do a bit of exercise, I am going to put even... Not that I'm going to put less emphasis on protein, but it's not my like major lever that I care about getting people active in general, not just for the lean mass, but for all sorts of other health benefits is my like strongest, heaviest emphasis for people and always has been even before these drugs ever existed. Yeah, if you looked at like an equalizer, like you got a seven band equalizer, and these are all the variables that affect like the proportion of mass compartments that are lost. And so you have, you know, things like sleep, you have protein intake, you have, you know, these medication use, whatever, all well and good, all can certainly affect that. But exercise, specifically resistance training is the volume knob. Like that is the main controller here. And so without resistance training, you know, all of these other things are... The effects are so much smaller. And so, you know, eventually we're going to get a study where people are using these agents and actually lifting weights like no shit, they're actually lifting weights. And then we're going to see the results. I suspect they'll be very positive. And then at that point, we should follow up with the TIA, with some other folks who have expressed strong concerns about this and be like, what now? You know. There's a study that's, they presented it's not published, it's called the T-Rex study. So funny story with my brother and I with Brad Schoenfeld, if you know who that is, went to Lilly again. I'm like, come on, I'm the biggest Lilly lover, but they decided to go with a different study. Apparently, they probably, probably a good choice. They're like, who the hell is this guy on podcast? He doesn't know what the hell he's doing. They chose a different team. But they showed it. I saw the slides from the conference where they showed a decrease compared to, I believe, the standard of care group, a decrease in fat-free mass loss. So as we'd expect, and so it was pretty, they cut it in half. And that's kind of what I'm seeing. I'm seeing cutting in half versus none at all when people are lifting weights. So pretty cool. Yeah. So again, what I'm hearing you say is that if you take Terzepotide, put CREAT, and plus resistance training and a little bit of TRT, it's basically a PED cocktail. Is that what we're talking about here? Yeah. And I mean, I'm sure you have talked about all the Myostatin inhibitors yet on your podcast. I mean, they're studying it. The thing is, it might be overblown. Of course, barbell medicine, I'm obsessed with muscle and that type of thing. Is it possible that we're overstating the benefits? We don't want people to get frail, but is it possible that we're overemphasizing it? I don't know. We'll see. Because if people live longer and live better with these Myostatin inhibitor drugs, then everybody's going to be jacked, ripped, and just like, it's going to be an interesting time. I don't know. Yeah. Just walk around. At that point, we will have to reject BMI. There'll just be too many jacked people just walking around and we're like, all right, well, we need another scale here. Yeah, forget BMI. I mean, yeah, actually, that was a big part of the conference and not another tangent, but going way past the BMI at this point. I'm sure you've talked about this, but we know that the BMI actually does a decent job. We're not everybody's an NFL linebacker. Most people are not NFL linebacker walking into the clinic. Not everybody's Jordan and Austin walking into the clinic. And if they were, I would look at them and be like, cares what their BMI is. Somebody should do that. But pretty cool that we are looking at body composition. I think it's important. Yeah. All right, well, let's wrap this up with maybe one of the more controversial parts of this podcast. We save it for last because if people tuned out, then they won't send us hate mail. How hard is it to get these medications? We've got some new government policies potentially coming down the pike. It's going to make these more accessible. But to you, Spencer, what is the biggest hurdle for people to gain access and maintain access to these medications? Yeah, it's costs. The costs are ridiculous. You see it over here in the United States. There's these middlemen, these pharmacy benefit managers. And because of rebates and the way they structure it and with the manufacturers and go to the insurances and the pharmacies, instead of being like 500, 600 bucks net price, they see this list price of $1,200 at the pharmacy. 20% to 30% of commercial insurance is approved. It actually is probably going to go down here because of the cost of these medicines. So that is probably the biggest thing we see. We're going to see that improved over this next few years, though. They just announced lowering the prices. If you go directly with the manufacturer, there's some new prices with Medicare that we weren't seeing before that just were announced. So price, by far price. It used to be, well, price and then access. There's a lot of weight stigma. But now everybody's asking about them. Primary care doctors are feeling more comfortable with them. So the access isn't as big of a deal with finding a doctor who's comfortable doing it. It's really the cost. And I think we're going to see in five to 10 years just the prices are going to be very low. But it's not so much right now. What is the role of vineyard? How does vineyard fit into all of this for access and maybe making sure that people are getting the lowest available cost? Is that something that vineyard does? Yeah. So our biggest thing is, look, because primary care offices aren't equipped with prior authorization specialists, we get referrals from primary care because the back office simply cannot handle the amount of prior authorization. So everybody knows what that is. You're basically asking insurance permission. Can I write this drug that I recommend for my patient? And you have to jump through these hoops of answering all these questions. They make it tougher and tougher because they don't want to pay. And so I was like, all right, this is one of the biggest pain points. I have to hire a prior authorization specialist to handhold the process of going to that. So that's one thing. Obviously, we're specialists in the field to where we know the dosing better. We know the interactions and how to adjust other medications with losing weight. We're going to focus on resistance training. We have dieticians to minimize side effects and optimize your whole journey. So that's the big thing. And we're going to try to get at the lowest cost possible for you. But we're also going to handhold you through the process to make sure your side effects are minimized. Your body composition is optimized. And you just have the best time. And you can chat with us online, texting us as opposed to waiting a whole month to go see your primary care doctor. That's just very quick replies, but also expertise is unparalleled. This is actually a little tangent to that topic about cost. And the way I view it and the way I kind of explain it is that you have these, not only brand name, but just prescription medications. And those are the highest cost tier. And then you have compounded versions, which you still need into prescription to obtain, but much lower cost. And then you have research chemicals, which are even lower cost and you don't need a prescription for. How do you kind of view the risk benefit analysis across that continuum? And do you have these conversations regularly with patients? Because they're like, look, I like what you're saying. I like the benefits, but that price point is just too much. So is there ever a scenario where you think of permissive use? They're like, oh, look, man, I don't love these compounded versions, but I actually think the benefits outweigh the potential risks. Yeah, how do you talk about that? Yeah, the problem with the compounded versions is that they haven't been studied for safety or efficacy. You can see Reddit, I have had patients come from the compounded versions. They've lost plenty of weight. But because of the nature of the compounded industry, you'll never have safety data. You can't do an FDA. You can't do a trial because the ethics committee would be like, no, you got to use an FDA branded version. There's concerns over where they're getting the sourced active pharmaceutical ingredient. And if they're making it in a certain way that's making immunogenic material that wasn't detected, it's a lot of different things. And that might be big pharma, fear mongering against the compounded versions. So I usually just say, look, if you cannot get, if you can't afford the FDA approved versions and you can't get it direct, like it's getting a lot cheaper. And it's getting similar, almost similar costs to the compounded, still more expensive. I can't personally attest to the safety of the compounded versions. I sure as heck can attest to the research grade peptides. Now the thing is, you'll see there'll be some analysis where it's like 99.5% pure. It's, it would be as pure as a pharmaceutical grade version. And then they'll do an analysis on the next batch and there's nothing in it. It's actually insane. So like you would have to verify every single batch that you got. I wouldn't mess around. I would never have a family member mess around with research grade. I wouldn't recommend compounded versions. But I'm in a, if you want to call it a privileged position to where like, you know, we could get them the FDA approved versions. So I don't get mad at people for going to the compounded versions because of affordability. What I do say is that the pain of that in the next few years, I think it's going to be so, we're going to look back and be like, oh wow, those are crazy times because the drugs are going to get so much cheaper and you'd be stupid not to get the FDA approved version because they're going to be so much cheaper. Again, we're just going to go through the pain in the next few years, unfortunately, to get there. All right. Final question to Dr. Baraki. Well, we've been talking about some aglutide, tersepatide and the future. What about older anti-abucity medications? And you know, what about micro dosing? Because people talk about that too. So yeah, thoughts on some of these older medications and also micro dosing because we want to be fashionable. Yeah, I think the question about older meds fits in nicely with the conversation that you just had around, you know, balancing risks and benefits of, you know, the non FDA approved versions if you're either going considering a compounded version or you're going like Chinese bathtub level peptide or something like that. Because we have at least as much arguably much even more experience with some of the older anti-abucity medicines. Now, what are the downsides of them? Many of them are not quite as potent in terms of their efficacy. Some of them come come close. And but the upside is that in general, they are way cheaper. They have maybe some of their own inconveniences. I've had plenty of patients, for example, you know, the brand name Qsimia or Fentrumintopyramate is one that is probably the most potent and has the best efficacy among the older ones. It's an oral agent. When it comes in the combination form that's branded, it might be a little bit less accessible for some folks, but it's also something that for somebody who's willing to go through with it and deal with a little bit more inconvenience, prescribe the meds separately in generic form. And, you know, it can do its thing potentially as a way to get people through this like temporary ideally period of discomfort or pain that Spencer described until the cost and the prices come down. So I think they do still have a role for now. They can be used in conjunction with GLP ones. They can be used on their own. They can be a bridge on or a bridge off. There's all sorts of different creative strategies that we can use when using things like again, Fentrumintopyramate less favorite is going to be appropriate on Naltrexone, but I've had plenty of patients who've used it with varying levels of success. Some who did great, some who didn't do as well, some who didn't get as much of a who kind of fell somewhere in between, which is going to be the case for most interventions. And then some patients who have very interesting maybe disproportionate responses to certain things to Fentrumint monotherapy just by itself, which is not something that many of us use too often anymore. But, you know, once in a while a patient will respond really well to that or to a topyramate or to some, you know, antidepressant category type medicines that for some patients have appetite modifying type effects and things like that. So bottom line is they do still have a role. They tend to be less expensive. They have their own unique pros and cons that you need somebody who has expertise and experience with them to be able to discuss with the patient and then be able to monitor their therapy and things like that over time and hopefully to keep kind of poking at this and engaging with this process to see, well, when does the cost benefit become, you know, within reach for you or become accessible or do you maybe unfortunately develop a condition that would qualify you for one of these things in a different way? These are all things that we'd be paying attention to. So that's my take on the older meds. And then lastly, the micro dosing topic, that's another thing that you'll see popularly on social media. It's not something that I don't think either of us is going to routinely be recommending for people, mainly because we don't have the quality of evidence behind those strategies for the types of outcomes that we're looking for in terms of be at weight loss, blood sugar control, cardiovascular risk, kidney, liver, all these other sorts of things. I can't say with confidence that using those levels of doses is going to get you those outcomes that you might be interested in. Now, the caveat there is that when you are an independent practicing clinician who feels confident with your, you know, with your practice, because I end up doing this with a lot of other things, you can do stuff off label all the time if you are comfortable with it, if you have a sense of the potential benefits, the potential risks, you're able to discuss this with your patient. And so where that might come more into play and probably does more regularly come into play is dosing for tolerability, right? And so we know that tolerance, the side effect risks that we talked about earlier, the overwhelming majority of it is going to relate to dosage. And so tinkering with dosages is probably the way that we end up dealing with most of the side effect kind of profiles, whether going to, you know, even tinier doses and or stretching out that on ramp process to be even longer. You know, a lot of the traditional dosing regimens that say you go on this dose for four weeks and then you bump it up from there, etc. I could stretch that out longer if I wanted to. I could keep you on a lower dose for longer or increment you in a smaller way. If you're comfortable with these things, you can use those types of strategies. But it's not going to be a standard recommendation for us at this time until or unless we have better quality data, I'm not going to go out making grandiose claims about if you just micro dose, you'll get these like life changing benefits with no, you know, side effects or or risk or something like that. I don't have concerns about risks at the very low doses and that's why we would use those potentially as a strategy for tolerability, but not really so much outside of that. So that's my take there. Excellent. All right. Well, to sum up the data is clear. The new anti-OBC medications, especially those targeting multiple receptor pathways, well, they're offering efficacy that rivals metabolic and bariatric surgery with improved tolerability and they're showing clear benefits for cardiovascular, kidney and liver health with additional potential in the future. If you'd like to have a discussion with professionals about this, you can click on the link in our description below in the show notes. You can connect with professionals at Vineyard. That's Dr. Dodolsky's company and Austin will be starting there shortly. If you want to work with Dr. Baraki there is not just weight loss. Spencer, can you talk to some about some of the other stuff that you guys deal with? I know you mentioned cardiometabolic health at the onset, but yeah, what can people expect if they end up head into Vineyard? Yeah. So think about obesity, but also obesity adjacent, cardiometabolic health, lipids, cholesterol. We also help with things like easy things like hair loss. If you're losing your hair from from the weight loss, we can jump in with minoxidil. If you're a guy and you just have androgenic hair loss, we can do a little finasteride. We can't call ourselves primary care. We like to stick to the cardiometabolic, but we can do some of these other things that places these pill mills that you see where you pay $50 a month. We can send it to places like Mark Cuban if your insurance doesn't cover it. So even skincare like Trepinoin, but think about blood pressure, lipid, glycemic control and weight losses in general and then anything kind of adjacent to that. There you go. And for all your training and nutrition needs, you can check out Barbell Medicine. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. A special shout out to Dr. Nadeulski and Dr. Baraki for joining me, Dr. Jordan Beigenbaum on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.

=== FILE: Trailer： The Fiber Action Plan is Here [mQy32bzgQTc].txt ===

viaviavia. tallow, and butter as primary fat sources, and it shifts away from high-fiber plant-based foods like legumes. Now, while the debate rages on social media, many on both sides seem to miss the big picture. It isn't enough to know what to do. People need support and actionable items in order to change their behaviors. Put simply, they need a plan. To meet that need, we have officially launched the Barbell Medicine Fiber Action Plan to connect clinical science with your next trip to the grocery store. In this new four-part audio series and downloadable guide, we are diving deep into the details that the headlines miss. We're going to show you why the old soluble versus insoluble framework on your food label is outdated and what to do instead. We're going to expose the extrinsic fiber trap, explaining why those high-fiber brownies and gummies don't deliver the same bioactive benefits as eating the whole plant due to the effects of the food matrix. For those of you focused on heart health, we'll discuss how adding psyllium husk to a low-dose statin can be as effective as doubling the medication dose alone. We'll also address the viral claims that fiber is nature's zozempic, and we'll tell you the truth about what it actually does for satiety and blood sugar without the influencer hyperbole. We're even going to look at your colon. Well, not literally, but we do discuss why you need specific, slowly fermentable fibers to create the anti-inflammatory molecules like butyrate where they're needed most. No colonoscopy needed. Then, we'll give you practical tools to implement this, including a meal building tool, a ramp-up protocol so you can increase fiber without the bloating, and specific strategies to filter every item that goes into your grocery cart. If you're a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, you can binge the entire four-part audio series and download the full PDF action plan right now in the Plus feed. If you're not a subscriber, head to the link in the show notes to sign up. You'll get immediate access to the audio series, the action plan, and the article, as well as exclusive Barbell Medicine Plus content, product discounts, and more. The controversy in nutrition isn't going away, but having a plan can help you cut through the noise. Stop guessing, get the guide, and let's get to work.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #31： Knee Pain, Volume vs. Intensity, Machines vs. Free-Weights, Sarcopenia, and MORE! [KhJN_B9zta0].txt ===

This is really happeninGHere. It's our feet, ready? I've been doing the gym. Alright, just. RPE what it means it was made by the sweet it was made to perceive and to see the appropriate stress that would mean. Thanks into account, very opposed like the tea, nutrition and sleep, so many conditions that play a position telling you what the weights should be, weight and sleep. The benefits of using RPE. It's a scale that reads, 1 to 10, and 10 being a weight you couldn't lift again. Horses. Everyone welcome back to the Barable Medicine YouTube channel. We bring modern medicine to strength conditioning. It's strength conditioning to modern medicine. Dr. Austin Bromke, I am Dr. Jordan Fagamon. This is trening blog number 31. We've got somEQuestions that you guys have submitted. We have some form checks that you guys have submitted. We'll review together and then some of my own trening because Austin doesn't send me videos anymore. Which makes me sad. So without further ado, let's get into thEQuestions. Make sure to stay tuned to the end of the video to find out how you can submit your own questions. Your own form checks to be reviewed right here on the Barable Medicine YouTube channel. So Austin, this first question from Kyle Fairbain. He asks, Just wanted to start off by saying your content is great and I see that things are picking up for you all. Which is great. Indeed. I had a question in regards to dealing with what I suspect is my particular tendon. I was making pretty good strength gains with my squat and then I started to feel a dull ache that I would squat through the pain. After a couple weeks at the Barable squat, the pain has increased. It is really tender to the point of where I have you load, makes my knee feel like it's going to explode. I've tried rehabbing myself but no results, any tips for recovery or what to do or what to avoid would be great. Thank you for your time. Yeah. So we deal with knee issues pretty frequently, particularly knee issues that are suspicious for tendon opportunities. And so a classic, you're giving it a pretty classic history for something like this. Typically, you can involve a quadriceps tendon opportunity which tends to be a little bit more localized to both the knee cap or a patella tendonopathy that tends to be localized a little bit below the knee cap for most people. And they tend to experience their discomfort associated with the squat, oftentimes in the bottom portion or during the balance or during the ascent when there's a little bit more tension applied to that structure. And so thEQuestion is why do these things kind of get sensitized in the first place? And the pathogenesis or the pathophysiology of how tendonopathy is happening is pretty complex. And that's really within the scope of thEQuestion, but it's thought that when you kind of chronically overload the tissue, usually in a cyclical fashion above the level that it's adapted to handle for, you know, a certain period of time that things can get a little bit, can get sensitized there. Some histologic changes that can happen, some neurological changes that can happen. There's a bunch of changes that occur in the process of precipitating a tendonopathy. So thEQuestion is what do we do about it? And we view these overwhelmingly as load-based issues. And so the treatment approach to it is also going to have to be, it's going to have to target that same issue. So it's going to be a load-based way to approach the management of it. So we just put that up for us that we approach this by managing trening loads of justing programming, sometimes exercise selection, things like that overwhelmingly over or will be considered more passive approaches to treating tendonopathy that you might see so things like needle-ing or whatever other types of instruments you use for your tendon. That overwhelmingly don't tend to work compared to sham interventions or placebo interventions. And even surgery, I would be writing up a review of a re-syn article that was published on the role of surgery in tendonopathy and it doesn't really appear to have a great role in it. So what I would do for you is it sounds like at some point along the line that you're trening or in your programming, there was some period of overload to that those tissues that were beyond what they were adapted to handle for whatever reason. And the more you continue to try to push through that if it's not improving, you're just prolonging this process. And this is something I've had to learn in the hard way in the past where usually we expect that a lot of aches and pains that come about the course of trening tend to get better on their own and in fact they often do. But sometimes they don't and particularly when they start to smell like a tendonopathy is going on, then frequently you really end up requiring a change in how you're managing your programming. And so what I would probably do initially is dial you far back on your intensity. Potentially even on your dose of trening volume that you're doing, maybe maybe not depending on how much you're doing right now. And sometimes we also adjust frequency and typically the intervention that we'll do is we'll actually do something either two to three times a week with a non consecutive days to give kind of a day off in between. There's some evidence pertaining to you know how tendons regenerate and adapt to reorganize in this process that where that can be beneficial. And really we need to we don't need to tren in a point where there is no discomfort whatsoever. But the threshold or the kind of the decision process that we take here is if your symptoms are tolerable during the trening session and they're not markedly exacerbated afterwards or for the 24 hours 36 48 hours afterwards. Then it's probably a reasonable stress dose. ThEQuestion is how much do you increment it and this is where people frequently get this wrong. Is they want to get back to their prior level of function much morEQuickly than is realistic. So standard 10 and off the protocols tend to take a minimum of about 12 weeks or so for most kind of standard prescriptions or the studies on the matter. So you're going to have to set expectations early that this is the process you're going to have to commit to your increments are going to have to be small. You know rules of thumb that we use in practice is generally no more than 10% increments from session session oftentimes. I'll pull things even back further than that about you five percent increment from session session early on. But you're talking about loading load absolute load correct. Not like just reps. You're like well as not just resist 10. Yeah, give in that we pull the loads back quite a bit sometimes we'll both prescribe load loads but also physically like restrened people from overloading by introducing some tempo to the movement because you're in straight check it. That's also basically really good. So you know a lot of the protocols that you'll see already have guys use they might have some people start out with something like in the 10 12 upwards of even the 15 rep range using some tempo to get some initial kind of desensitization going on. And basically to get some people some what we call some wins some sessions where they feel like they're getting some work in they're doing okay the next day they're feeling okay and not getting more sensitizing or discomfort. And then those small increments and try to build momentum and chalk up one win at a time each session. And as the loads go up using those increments the reps will eventually come down you can pull the tempo back down closer to normal. Maybe you go from a 10 post walk to a pause walk if that's a tolerable variation for you at the time and kind of again just bridge your way back towards more. And you're way back towards normal function over time but think the biggest place is where people go wrong is trying to do it too quickly which is really involves the increments and loading that you're making. So if you're jumping you know 25 pounds of session you know or some very large increment where that's a substantial percentage from session session that's a great way to make this process last too long. Yeah because it's likely going to resist burp is not on mismatch and you're keep low versus. Chrono versus what what what the tendon is ready to handle at the right time. Yeah, the way I think about this whole thing IMean thEQuestions about I have me pain you know what do yeah and he's suspected to be a tendonopathy. Or tendon related pain which might not be wrong especially given it's pin point ten and it's worse at the bottom of the squat and you use related related those things all tend to like yeah they tend to like drive you towards this tendonitis. Uh, tendonopathy related issue knee pain as far as what the actual diagnosis is you can use location to kind of like you said kind of guide you so if it's up to the. So the. Uh, Patel I either think quadriceps of its below you think you know, Patel or 10 interpellent statement depending on how staunch you and then if necessary was. And if it's around if there's you know it's sort of global thing maybe think Patel of federal pains in your own which have actually put a link to a science article about that's kind of an umbrella term just means. And you know, right exactly so that's the whole thing though that you do have me pain and you suspected to be due to a must feel skeletal cause right now you don't need a call at a tendonitis or tendonopathy and the notice is like you don't need to get because it's not. It's not going to change what you do. So I'm going to change your management. So the real thinGHere that is again managing load and breaking that sort of cycle of every time that you squat or do ex movement you have pain. But we do like in our me rehab template which I think fits all the criteria that we've talked about like if you need examples of how to sort of okay pull things back in an organized systematic way and then get back to your normal trening like that's what that's there for. So I've linked that also in the description below but we begin with like isometric then we change the movements to like tempo variations pause variations usually at higher repringues to again we're breaking the cycle where getting people some wins some momentum where they don't have pain when they squat so that way is the load built in this small incremental way. Then they get back to the normal trening. The only other things that I would talk about would be actually be prevention people people would say or ask how do I prevent getting this tendon related knee pain. It's like well thing one is not to have this acute on chronic mismatch in what you're able to tolerate so that just means advancing things if they're volume wise or trening intensity wise we're both too quickly for what you're able to tolerate. So which is just standard principles of reasonably good programming until the program occurs yes exactly and then also not. If you are pretty under trened or under strong that is a risk factor for developing sort of pain like this so getting strong anyway that progressively overloads you over time is kind of the way to prevent this from happening. We do have this we think that it's reasonable to change multiple elements of programming to break the cycle get you on the right path and get you back sooner rather than if you kind of said oh I'm just going to work through it. Well the really common thing we see is people assume that anything that's pain related and trening is due because they moved wrong. Yes we have a technique notice we haven't said like we didn't say it because you know we'll typically see people who say I want to fix my technique and keep using the same loads and we hear really enough they tend to not get better from their tendon off the one this happens. Usually hyper vigilante they have some personality traits associated with like actually perfectionism. Yeah focus in like light perfection and focus on their technique they focus on you know if IMove this one weird movement is that's what's causing the pain and then. So you pay too much attention to your hyper vigilante and ultimately do worse like and. However, I will say that when people have pain sometimes just getting them to move in a different pattern correct can be a less sensitive way to move and that doesn't really imply that you were previously moving wrong. No it just doesn't. Yeah you're moving in a different way that's less sensitive to any may in fact not actually have a tendon off the if that's the case. Yeah so my stock recommendation if I had somebody come in like this this is you I think our knee rehab temple totally reasonable like just to like jump on you because you were telling you do multiple things if you want to clearly spell it out like. That temple if you're like not man not buying that I think. Doing some isometric works for like a week or two to get your kind of break that cycle get you back you know moving in a way. Uh uh they get you some bill you know gives you that foundation to make some small wins that's a good idea and then tempo work higher rep range and move the pattern that you can tolerate and then ultimately over the next 12 to 16 weeks working back towards your current trening right now. I've linked some studies and our knee rehab temple it also in the description. The last thing I would say if you've done the knee rehab temple it were similar before I that failed to work for you then I think that's a that's grounds for like professional evaluation doctor like a ray and direct miles both those guys are been true and Charlie. I always leave them out. Well sorry Charlie well that's what you're here. Our all really keyed up on the stuff really good with the evidence and I think that if you've tried to do this on your own or you try to do this under like this sort of stock template sort of thing that didn't necessarily work as well as you wanted to I think those would be the guys to contact you can. Shoot them and email through our website or email address info for barbomboniston.com. All right next question this is from me kale. I assume that's how you say. McCookly yes. He says I'm very strong like no. Michael Allen in he says after strength development has adapted to the preliminary stress of weight trening the main driver to strength development is said to be volume. I've equivalent that this is basically the explanation as I've understood it to be the thinking behind the singular eight and then taking off 20% and doing five so five we're similar. Your programs are based on the main lifts wherecompetition lists are done once per week in the accessory lifts are there to add volume without too much intensity and I've equivalent with that as well. If volume is so important why is the why are the accessory lists done with higher relative intensities and lower volumes and the volume work for the competition list. In short why is volume for the accessory lifts often prescribed lower volume and for the competition lifts. So just a few just problems just off the off the bat so you state that after strength development has adapted to the preliminary stress of weight trening the main driver of strength is said to be volume so I think at all stages of the game volume has a very. Direct role at driving outcomes as far as improvements and strength and meaning that you know you need to do some number of reps. So that's it. To have a certain supply higher low or any of it just just needs to be present correct yes same thing with intensity is not either or they're always both important and they have a relationship. Together that's you know usually when volume is higher intensity is lower and vice versa so that's. They're always present in a program at some level and they always are going to help determine the not only the type of adaptations that you get but also the magnitude of the adaptation so that's quibble. Number one when you talk about things in low volume and and and higher intensity whatever it's all relative right so I would not say that any of our lists are programmed at low intensity especially when you look at the literature low intensity typically like 30% to 50% of one or we don't program in there so all of our. All of all intensity ranges that we use are in that moderate to high intensity 60 plus yeah 100 get pretty much not to 100% but. Yeah, but I would say that 100% of our trening recommendations are in the moderate to high intensity ranges. But do you have another quibble before we kind of get into this. No, I'm going to get into it. I was doing so I want to talk about first on to find like what strength actually is and then we can kind of talk about how intensity plays a role doesn't how volume plays a role and this is the kind of wrap this up together so first of all strength. The definition of strength is force production that's measured in a specific context so you can't just say it's force production period because it has it's always measured in specific context so for instance the one around the power of the display is not platform. Okay, specific context where force is being produced similar to a two hour 15 minute marathon that is. Placed that is how a context where forced production is being displayed their gymnast doing an iron cross or so it's just different context right and so it's all for structure and then in different ways all strength is measured in specific context you can't differentiate separate just the force production from how it's measured and strength is very specific and. Any different ways that will actually discuss I think probably speaking think about the two like main categories of elements or buckets when you describe like what actually drives strength. Development one is physical changes to the actual muscle the other would be neurological changes to the muscle. So physical changes in the muscle you think about muscle cross sectional area you think about penetration angle you think about you know how many you start a music like all sorts of enzymatic activity in the muscle like how many might a kind of real density. How much blood vessels or supply all things that happen physically right from a holdover of how I think about a lot of like medicine or physiology topics I kind of think about. Do we produce force from start to finish and so it starts in the brain as most things do you have this you know the various the movement centers the motivation kind of the decision to execute the movement and and. And then trace that all the way down through the brain through the spinal cord out the peripheral nerve so the skeletal muscle to the violent or genetics the actual act in mice and the latter force trensmission through the tendons to the bone and so you know when you talk about force production. It's like the thesEQuestions reflect a lot of kind of reductionism and the way thEQuestion gets asked or the like it doesn't all come down the volume of this and all come down to the intensity or something. Yeah, it's it's not really the right way of thinking about this very complex system that has to adapt at every level sure right from the brain through the spinal cord through the peripheral nerve to the skeletal muscle to the tendon all the way out to the bone where the joints get moved. There are adaptations that happen at every point in that pathway. Yeah, and not only as you said to an extent are they specific to the task, but they respond differently to different stimuli exactly. Yeah, so that's kind of where and I think about this just if there's if we can lump group things physical personerological. You know that is one way to describe this thing with your right every yes there are a bunch of different players in the force production and they all respond in different ways to the same trening and in the overall adaptation that that yield is specific to the task. So let's think about like how intensity what the role of trening intensity is in strength development so intensity is going to be percentage of one RRM or basically describinGHow heavy the way is what's the load. I like to actually think about this just as a summary sort of standpoint from a summary sort of standpoint that intensity determines the type of adaptations that you're going to get. So all of us being equal the intensity will tell you like what type of force production is going to be improved so for instance when you work at very high intensities you're talking about low velocity. For production what what is under a bar below or you can talk high force production like a sprinter yes with that which you're context right but that but that's high velocity for fraction below the external low external short correct is less and that's just the force velocity continuum meaning that you. You are able to move at higher velocities at lower forces lower loads yeah and so. Intensities determine what velocity for instance you're going to get stronger at intensities also determining what sort of improvements you're going to make. With your ability to display force production so for instance if you want to get a better one RRM. You should be practicing singles and you should be working in rep ranges that are similar to a one RM for the majority of your work. On the other hand if you're never going to a powerless you don't necessarily care what you want to run as you just want to get stronger. Well that you what you're telling me is you want to improve force production in many different rep ranges you don't want to just get better singles you want to get better and shore singles and shore 5 and shore 10s and you know you might want to be able to repeat force production. For a series of tasks like a 20 reps that like you would want to be proficient all of those things and so intensity is going to determine the load. And ultimately determine where you get better at producing force so that's the type of adaptation that's how I think about it. Did you think about intensity in a different way or is that. I think that that's probably reasonably good there's that there's a large input from that standpoint on a lot of the neurologic adaptations that we see. We know that tendons actually preferentially also tend to respond to higher intensities compared to lower and then the only other caveat is that this is again assuming that we're talking about a dynamic. Task like just like a deadlift and those are where things like skill come into play and that's where if you want to get good at executing the skill under a high load you have to do it. However, we have data on lower load trening for again isometric force production and you can get essentially equivalent strength outcomes with lower high load strength trening when you remove the skill aspect current. You know sustained isometric contraction you know you have enough time to recruit everything you need and there's no skill involved and so you know it's kind of interesting then even using lower loads we can get similar adaptations out of that but again most people here don't care about their you know one RM hand hand. Yeah performance they care about their dynamic strength adaptations in a particular lift or in some particular context and that's where the load needs to match how you're going to test it if you want to you know have the neurological the skill out of patients like that but what you're probably getting to is that that plays a much smaller role in terms of altering a lot of the muscular architectural changes like muscular hypertrophy where we see this huge range of intensities where we can get equivalent. equivalent high-purtrophy outcomes at it and this is where there's been something a couple interesting papers published recently back and forth between. Cody Hawn and the Gatski and knuckles on kind of one side of the discussion and then Lenniky's group on the other side and. All of the like Lenniky's group is almost talking past them with a saying like well you can get stronger without getting bigger muscles so. hypertrophy doesn't really matter that much for strength and they're like well that's not refuting the idea of the getting bigger muscles is probably helpful for strength. Right particularly in this dynamic context or or an either context really but you know the skill and our logical part is kind of separate piece of the art. Just because you can do it doesn't mean that that's not one of the major drivers particularly the more trened you get. Yeah so we talk about like strength improvement again, the neurological aspect you're talking about getting better your volitional ability to produce force like which and that's any specific context is you have to practice that skill. All talk but additionally you have antagonistic muscle relaxation. Reaction is the first time you do a task a physical task like the first time you've ever swatted the antagonistic muscles are slowing you down and breaking you and wasting energy preventing you from like. Realize in your full force project potential but as you squat more more that goes away. Other neurological things include just motor patterning in general so that these all happen from a mirror to step with their specific again to task and intensity and that include and then from a physical standpoint sure. The muscle muscular hypertrophy muscle cross sexual areas of big one also the actual stiffness properties of the muscle the enzymatic activity of the muscles which are all going to be determined again the intensity ranges going to determine the rep range which is going to have an influence on all those things except for maybe muscle hypertrophy so muscle hypertrophy is kind of this. Like I would call it. It's it's on a island here because it doesn't really matter the intensity that you use as long as you're doing enough volume and your sets get hard enough at the end that you're getting this full on motor you can approve it and really what you see when you look at the data. When you look at volumes effect on strength and then you know we'll talk about muscle hypertrophy you see this dose response relationship. IMean when you look at the reviews you see a dose response relationship between volume and hypertrophy you see a dose response relationship between tren exercise volume and health outcomes like blood pressure law or an effect. And blood glucose control you know and literally any health metric obesity improvements like what you know by that loss. I'm to clarify just a dose response relationship means that you increase the dose you increase the response it does not imply anything about the linearity of that response. Yes, we'll have of course diminishing returns, but it still increases doing pretty pretty high dose before we start to see things turn around and you see the same thing on strength trening as well. It's that once you've corrected for the right intensity and for the movement selection for the task that you're testing you see another dose response relationship. So again the way I think about this overall is intensity determines the type of adaptations that you're likely getting. So all you can determine is the magnitude of adaptations that you're getting. So those response relationship and there are nuances at every level of this sort of force production is a confusing discussion. Yeah, but I'm saying those so but and and so stop trying to reduce it to one very well. Exactly and then just as like when we come back to this question like you know what are your things program like this and when you look at the total program. You see particularly our strength based programs you see a prioritization of the competition list because by saying that you're doing the way strength based program we have to pick our targets right there's no such thing as general strength strength is specific. The specific to contractual type, the specific to contractual velocity specific to the movement you know the range of motion the muscle length literally again every step away and so if you're saying I want to get stronger like when you get stronger what. So we pick arbitrary movements that we prioritize and so we give you more chances to practice that skill more exposure to that specific skill that's why their competition list as we designate the 10 to add more volume on our strength based programs are non strength based programs. Ten to not have that programization because we don't care as much just another tool and tool box to get you to do resistance trening. And then as far as why are some of our accessory list on higher intensities than the competition list that's just because the inverse relationship between intensity and volume. So because the competition list are done with greater volumes when we program them that way we have to do them at lower intensities and so. And then on the flip side we know that there's still useful adaptations to be had by treninGHigher intensities and then have lower volumes. So there's a spectrum of what we consider to be high intensity trening that would improve your strength outcomes that in those tasks and we use them on our programs. Yeah, I don't see like our competition list being programmed 50% like yeah just do you know tens of 10 it's not having a program. No, we say do six sets of five at 86%. No, so that's the process. So somebody would argue then like look if I want my one arm to go up my three arm five or I'm to go up one and I just do one arms all the time one on just do three arms all the time one on just do five arm. There's very specific you guys just specifically 100 times was drinking game now drunk. Like that's what they would say and you say well the problem is yes the intensity that you are selecting for when you do that is generating that type of adaptation. But you can't do an a volume that way to get the magnitude of that. Yeah, exactly magnitude is going to be necessarily limited correct that those response relationship gets eliminated when you can only do a small dose one three arm does not you know help build or develop the strength long term. So you have to drop the intensity a little bit so that you can do a Napoleon down. I did a message yesterday or earlier today from like a 17 year old kid healthy who said that he was he was doing very high intensity work because he wanted to get his top in strength higher and he was getting so sore and beat up from it that he wanted to reduce his trening frequency to twice a week. What which is taking things in the wrong direction the distance. Yeah, so he's hit that's kind of the scenario describing where he's hittinGHigh intensity stuff all the time but because of how fatiguing it is it's limiting the dose that he can generate and so it's going to limit his ultimate adaptation. The type is right. Your fun to drugs and then you can do things like hey I'm going to work up to one top set on the squat per week and make games forever share it because these articles get shared around to us. Like it doesn't play. Yeah, right the flavor the flavor is right. Yeah, okay, you know, you know, yeah, all right. So we talked about for a while. Yeah. Very good question from Connor Willch. I'm currently doing my exercise science undergrad. I'm working on a public health program for a project. I'm trying to get seniors involved in strength trening to combat, teacher, the groups of groups of groups of students made out of肬 studies, so this is increasing each other's conclusions. Whether it's for willing repaying or providing and defending incredible things. be liftinGHeavy barbells for their health. Do barbell exercises provide you need benefits that machines can't offer for seniors. I appreciate you taking a time to answer this and thank you for being a light in the fitness industry. Thanks, man. All right, so I just want to address some of the other dream address. Yeah, all right. So this is a very good question. And I definitely want to talk about all these different points. Particularly this is opportunity to discuss our opinion. He did like a full-on hour presentation on this that is on our YouTube channel. I will leave that link in also in the description below. This will be a condensed discussion on that. We can kind of wrap about it a little more free form. So you state that many tell the delet as a dangerous exercise for anyone who will do it in just 65. But present the view that the sort of advanced age, added advanced ages, low bearing intensity should be reduced in order to avoid injuries and chronic abuse is it's a death. Like everybody thinks this, right? That's what they say. But that's not supported by current evidence. We do not have data, say if you have seen that the deadlift or any one resistance trening exercise is inherently dangerous. In fact, when you look at the data on resistance trening in injury, risk, and you look at things like competitive weight lifting, competitive power lifting, crossfit, strongman, and even an individual recreational resistance trening. You do not see this sort of really crazy high risk. You see that it's actually really low. And then you also have to balance that against the risk of not trening, not trening. Like legitimately, what are you going to do not tren? And it's like the risk of being said and Terry far outweighs the potential risk of injury. The number one way that people get hurt in recreational resistance trening is dropping a dumbbell or a weight on themselves. Like that's how it happens. Now sure, in other competitive, barbell sports, applications, that's not necessarily the case. But I'm not worried about grandma gettinGHurt lifting weights. I'm worried about her, hurtinGHerself by not lifting weights. And then, so, you know, when somebody said all of deadlift dangerous for your back, it's like, well, where's the evidence? I think it's more dangerous to not tren your deadlift and not be able to pick things up off the ground. Yeah, it's just kind of people trenslating quote unquote, compensants, literally, because that's, it is such a prevalent idea and just because things sound right. In fact, frequently, those very things are not to be wrong. So I would just dismiss that at the hand. Yeah, exactly. Just ask the citation when no citation is provided. And you say then, stop saying that. Yeah. And maybe I'll be able to have to. So, then you ask, do barbell exercise provide unique benefits that machines can't offer for seniors? So, I think the answer to that is yes, no and maybe. So, well, let me explain. So, if you're just hit back some new ones, the next new ones. So, if you're asking, do barbell exercises offer unique benefits compared to machine based resistance trening from hypertrophy or strength outcomes. The answer is no. The answer is no. You can get equivalent outcomes. And if your goal is to like encourage participation on like a population level, like you should definitely have machine based options because that's going to be a net win. People aren't going to get stronger in a non-barbell exercise by doing barbell trening compared to leg press. This study has actually been done. I've linked it in the description below. They tested, they tested people on a isometric leg dynamometer. Would they actually like just lift up against the force, play kind of thing? And they took one group, squatted, one group did leg press, and they both did the same. The improvement was the same. So, yeah, there's no like improvement in strength. Our approach for outcomes based based on machine versus barbell trening. If you're assuming you measure it in a different way, like, correct. Because strength is the same. Correct. So, just to make sense. So, the way that barbell trening is better than machine based trening is if you are trying to get better at that barbell exercise. If that's important to you, if you want to go to IP of world as a master's three or four competitors, you should probably please squat pension template because you're going to be surprised. Then I'll let you use a selectorized leg press machine on your opening attempt. That would be a problem. As far as maybe, I think you could make an argument for the balance component of a ground based standing for you. That being said, there's studies on this as far as fall. And it's not universally in support of barbell trening doing better than other exercise programs. So, I don't think I could say that confidently, especially because it's not just an absence of data there. It's like you have data that's not convincing. So, my answer again is, yes, no, maybe just depends on that. Okay, now, to the thick part of this question. Let's talk about Sarkopinia. Does this guy almost come up with a public health program? Sure. Anyone thinking about, do people need you barbell trening to come up at Sarkopinia? So, let's talk about Sarkopinia. Let's define it and go through it a little bit. And then, yeah, so, really, it's just defined as a decreased level of scale to muscle mass. There are arbitrary diagnostic thresholds for this that have been established in the literature. But we rather just focus on, you know, low scale to muscle mass, low physical performance, low muscle strength, are kind of the primary ways that we look at this. It happens over time when chronic, well, chronicly when muscle protein break down tends to outpace muscle protein synthesis. And so, I use that framework when I teach about this topic to back to, to explain the stimuli that lead to both of those things. So, things like muscular tension from resistance trening is animal-extimulus. We're not going to be tense in action. So, it's like, so, so, so, most of the attention like resistance trening dietary protein and hormonal factors, you know, growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone factors, either endogenous or exogenous, so, you know, use of animal oxteros can all be animal-extimuli versus primarily catabolic stimuli being the absence of those things or things like an acute or chronic illness, things like chronic hypoxia, being on certain medications that can induce muscle wasting like prednisone, glucocorticoids, and several others. It's just a mismatch though. It's a chronic mismatch between the two. So, when we're muscles being broken down versus that's being synthesized and what you started or said earlier about the physical performance, the consequence of that in its later stages tends to be that, not only do you just have the limoussa-ness but the consequence of that being reductions in physical performance and function. Do you have a sense like what comes first? IMean, we both read a lot of the same things. So, as far as you see the reduction in performance that might be like the first, you know, present, before actually, I think that you can probably lose a decent amount of muscle mass before you start to see substantial decreases of physical performance. However, I say that in the context of the general population that generally don't demand very high-end of the physical performance. That was my tip. For us, if we lost, you know, if we lost 10% of our muscle mass, we would probably observe another substantial change in our physical performance under the barbell when we're demanding, you know, one-heart performance as under our ourselves. For the general population that, you know, might just walk around their house if that, they can probably lose a substantial, large, or portion of their muscle mass before they start to notice like, hey, I'm having a hard time getting off the couch, which is why we use some of these screening tests in practice to look for it. So, like, the repeated up and sit-to-stands that I talked about in my lecture, people cross their arms and have them sit up, they're standing up and sit down, five times as quickly as they can. And if they, it takes them somewhere longer between about 13 to 15 seconds to do that, you got a pretty solid chance that this individual may have circumpine in front of. They may have other things because that's a non-specific test. So, an example, non-specific could be caused by other things. So, they could be super drunk or they could turn their neurological disease or something else, or post-tip. But, like, something else, like, an interview with it. But, in the absence of those things, if they look, if they look thin, they look weak and they take a long time to do that test, there's a good shot that they may have sort of pina. So, as far screening for sarcapina, it's recommended it's done at any time that there, like, any time that an older adult's hospitalized, like, you just should be screening and then by their primary care, they're recommended 65-year-older every time. They see the see-as-as, they're just worth talking about with everybody, right? Because Laura, we should already be talking about them with exercise, if they don't exercise, they're at higher risk. Yes, exactly. Yeah. But, as far as the idea of a screening test is that it picks up your diet, noticing you're not missing anybody with the screening tool. And so, yeah, you might get some false positives in there that you don't want to miss people. So, there's a bunch of different tools that I've linked in the description below if you're like a healthcare provider, you're like, what's the sarcaf tool? Like, I'll put that in there. Some other resources on there, but what Austin's referring to is that there are, that's that test is like, how often do you have problems, like, lifting stuff above your head? There's kind of obvious questions. Yeah, you get on a good decent history. And then, after someone is identified themselves, like, this person's at risk of sarcafini, right? The same thing that you had to do that first before you would then move on to, like, this short performance or physical battery test, where it's like, get up, go, five times, walking, feet test. Those are all diagnostic tests to get to front figure out, like, does this person, in fact, have reduced physical performance? Yeah. The ultimate diagnostic test would be to test a physical performance or physical and or physical strength. And then, technique, like, it takes it to measure how much muscle that's they have. And, again, in practice, I don't think that all this stuff needs to be done. Yeah. Because, again, this is a situation where the risk of inappropriately treating somebody means that you're counseling them to exercise and lift weights, which is different than inappropriately treating, you know, you know, a false positive cancer screen or something where you're going to put them on chemo. And appropriately, which is what it does. So thEQuestion was really about, like, you know, what sort of evidence do we have on resistance trening in sarcafini? And I think you could look at that from two different ways. Like, one is a prevention of sarcafini. And the other one would be, like, actual management of sarcafini. That being said, um, would you look at both those dig prevention of sarcafini? That's really difficult to assess. Mainly because sarcafini usually is not in isolation. There's other, there's people have other disease processes that are either contributing to or complicating their sarcafini. So it's not like you also have to follow people for a really long time. Right. Yes. And then as far as we're first in sarcafini at that, again, that same issue or those two same issues make it difficult to say, well, resistance trening is actually moving. And you don't look like, well, somebody's got CBD diabetes hypertension. You're already asking disease. All this other sort of things. You're like, oh, but didn't resist the stren of health or sarcafini. It's like, well, they have all these other things that are making them sarcafini. And so how do you? Yeah. So it's probably, and then you have to do that for a long period of time. That being said, the latest guidelines on this and I've linked the two, a full tax article you can read on this below. They strongly recommend resistance trening. And I think they do that from the same point you, the same sort of position that you were just saying that the potential benefit is high and the potential risk is very low. So why are we not recommending this? Yeah. Yeah. I think that like you said, because of how heterogeneous it can be from patient to patient, meaning that one patient can have sarcafini in due to cancer. Another one might have a due to heart failure. Another might have a due to COPD. Another one might have a due to a combination of all of these things. For it on a immune disease or any number of things, if you do a research study on a variety of patients with medical conditions and you provide them with one standardized resistance trening intervention, it's going to be hard to prove that that one intervention works for everybody. Yeah. Because it's likely going to be underdozed for some appropriately dozed for others and maybe even overdozed for some people. So this is a situation where the trening intervention probably needs to be pretty individualized, accounting for their baseline physical ability. Their resources available to tren and in particular their degree of antibiotic resistance, which unfortunately, not something that we can include measure. But you can kind of infer based on what's a medical condition as this individual have going on, how old are they, how sedentary are they, and that should give you an idea of does this person need a low dose of trening? Do they need to, you know, do one heavy triple once a week or do they need to be trening more relative? We more frequently be more active, doing more of the activity on a regular basis, and I would lean towards that. The older, the more sedentary and the more sick somebody is. I'll also just say, I'm not worried about overtrening this population. So, and a one overtrener resistance trening isn't. It's another topic, but I'm not scared of that. I am worried about people overfitting themselves over a period of time and then developing an injury, but I'm not worried about that in this population. I'm just not, and I think that older folks have been in general have been done at a service by not only the public lay public, but then also the experts in this summer of public arena telling them, like, you are fragile. You need less. You should be very, very careful. And it's like, I know when you've lived this long, you're resilient, you're a sturdy, you know? Like, otherwise you wouldn't have made it this far. And then we know that there's this dose of sponsorship, just in general, I don't mind premise, and then if you are antibody resistant, if you're anti-idegaloscopy, you check all the boxes for antibody resistant. I know that the relative dose of exercise that you need or see improvement is going to be higher than somebody's very antibody resistant. Further, further, I know that if you don't do that, the potential negatives are much much worse. You know, I'm not worried about like, did they get a little too sore? Like, yeah, you know, we're going to get better. So that's one big piece of this is dosing it appropriately for the individual rather than kind of like, we can't give you a blanket. Like, here's the Sarkopedia template because it's not going to work across the board because just this population. So heterogeneous, the other piece of this that I would recommend you look into. This is a paper that I'm writing a review on for a research review this month. It is written by Rhodes. It was published in 2017. I'm sure you can link it in the show notes. It talks about basically factors that are related to or predictive of resistance trening participation in the general population. So that's the thing that will actually get people to do this and to stick to it. And it suggests that there are whole host of factors that we need to be paying attention to, so rather than being extremely rigid with our prescription and saying everybody has to do this single thing. It lists all the factors that we need to be paying attention to, including people's attitudes, beliefs and expectations about exercise, whether they're going to enjoy or not, or it's going to be pleasant or not. That's like a big factor, right? If people are dreading, people who actually tren, recognize this when they dread every trening session. Basically, it's a pretty darn hard. You're your RPE for going to the gym, as you know how that just needs it. So this is a factor in environmental access to gyms, guidance, all that kind of stuff plays a role. And so you need to have a flexible intervention that accounts for individual preferences, beliefs, things like that. It needs to be dose-depropriably for the individual. And that's going to be difficult to do. But you need to get a sense of it based on how old-centrarier this individual is, and it needs to be progress-depropriately. So even if they're old-sick and frail, and you practically have to start with a low dose, your goal is to increase that dose over time, not to decrease that dose over time. That sounds like so that's a complexity. Well, I do my best. But so you wouldn't those strictly recommend strictly advocate for barbell trening. No, no, I think that that is likely to leave out a very large proportion of this population who needs this intervention. And so, you know, I would ask them, hey, like, you know, do you feel about this? Yeah, do you want to like this? Go ahead. Go to the shot. Cool. If not, what can, what, what do you know about strength trening, what might you be willing to start with or something like that? But it's not even that you're preferring barbell trening. You're just like settling for somebody doing machine-based. You don't care. No, no, no. Let's go. Let me go to how I'll have to be correct from a health standpoint. I actually don't care. We just like it because we like fun. And we're for us, we have biases. Yes, right. But like, I cannot make a straw of argument for barbell trening outside of the context of performance in the barbell lift. Sure. Okay. Like, stop eating that to death or is there more? No, IMean, it's just we're going to keep the same to same thing. The only other thing I wanted to talk about was respect to Sarcopinia is protein ingestion. Yeah, we were kind of rapping about this earlier. So again, when you look at the articles that I've like below on this, particularly on those Sarcopinia guidelines, they recommend that these populations take in a higher amount of dietary protein. I think that's the 1.2 grams for kilos. It's like their recommendation. Whereas the 1.6 grams for kilo is the other recognition from Horton. Yes, based on all the evidence. So we just bracket it and say 1.2 to 1.6. Yeah. And that's in general for people who are either in a calorie of it, is your calorie surplus or standpoint, and so Sarcopinia would represent that in general for both, you know, if you start with a obesity, that's a different deal, but at the same time than you. If you're actively losing weight, yes, and you're in a calorie deficit, then calorie deficit is actually made you end of all of the resistance. Right. So then you could actually advocate for some of the higher dose, but that's again, another episode. But the point is that yes, these folks in general need to hire protein intake, and we kind of bracket that 1.2 grams, 1.6 grams per kilo. Now, I am not the big, you know, sort of vocal supporter of protein supplementation in this particular group. Even though I think it's a reasonable inclusion, like if somebody wanted to use a weight protein high quality, you know, high-pohnt and see protein supplement, I think that's fine. But I can't be like, yeah, the evidence says that people who take this generally do weigh away better problems with that evidence that when they look at people who are either elderly or with start opinion, they're not using the diagnostic criteria to like stratified these people. The protein intakes are like substantially different than they have to like show this human's reaction from food or from supplement, and we just consider protein supplements be food than your outcome should be the same. Right. And so, and they're not, they don't have these huge differences between people taking in weight protein, and then like their regular dietary protein intake. Oh, this person had, did that at one point five grams per kilo versus point set, and the more active you are, the less all of this matters. Yeah, if you're, I'm very good if you're older and you're super healthy and you're super active, then you're probably maintaining a pretty darn good level of animal sensitivity and you can probably even get away with less. Yeah, so just because you're 50, which again, we don't consider to be old. That'll, right, you're not frail it. But we hear people say like, oh, I'm, I'm guess I'm 35 now. I guess I need to really start cranking up the protein, and it's like, well, you're not old. Yeah, you can crank it up if you want, but not because of that number. Yeah, one point six grams for key levels. Super healthy, you know, super healthy, super active, 60 plus, zero people are so much that I still don't really, you know, I don't have evidence to say you really need to be consuming this crazy high dose of protein. We think that again, more seditarian, more sick, more frail in the setting of people who are older as well, that then we can make a stronger case for it. Yeah. So I think takeaway for this is that from full the Cal standpoint, we're both like, where does this Australian aim? By hook or by crook, doesn't need to be marble trening. Yeah, it could be a machine based. I think you get a equivalent outcomes unless you're going to power. You see in these crossfit videos that they're putting out, where they have people like, looks like they're standing on the set of the sitcom and they're like picking up jugs of antifreeze or something. Yeah, for the cross and healthy. It's like, well, IMean, I guess for like a few days and then you got to get a bigger deal with these, you just add 5 milliliters to it all the gym. But you have how many thousands of gyms for crossfit to say that short. Yeah, although from the roads are at a golly would say that access in a lot of places is yes, it's a barrier. I feel like maybe there's some risk of lifting that antifreeze thing, you know, five is not going to like the legal icon of toxicity. Yeah, it's a problem. And then we talk about protein intake again, if five food are by protein supplement, I think it's yeah, 1.2 to 1.6 grams for kilos. That's kind of a stock recommendation. And then for as far as a stock opinion treatment prevention, I think this stuff is complicated. If you had an develop a public health program, it would be pro resistance trening, you know, pro get enough protein in but that's really as far as you can go from a general recommendation, everything else has to be tailored to the person. Yeah, to the extent that you fail to tailor to the person and make it rigid and has to do this way. Then again, there are substantial substantial swath of the population that are going to be necessarily excluded by that, which is kind of not the idea of a public health intervention. The opposite, only people with access resources and willingness to do this, they're going to get benefit and kind of screw the rest. That's not how we do public health. Yes, that narrow casting. So I'll just be kind of relevant. All right, now we're back in Santa Cruz. Let's review some form checks. So this first video is from Katherine. Let's see, this is 60 kilos and she's going to do, think of triple with this. I'm not sure if it's high bar low bar because I can't really see from here. Let's just take a look here. Yeah, depth is in good position. depth is good. Backstays in a good position. A bar path that's kind of wonky. It honestly just looks like you're a little tentative, like you're almost scared. So I think, yeah, and the bar path was kind of a little place on a third rep. So Katherine, none of these are bad squads. I think if something is preventing you from squatting regularly, then you're going to have this sort of tentative on the way down and you might have some reps that look a lot different than others, where as if you were able to squat more frequently, then I think that your squat technique gets clened up. So if the weight is a little too much for you to be able to squat more frequently or do more reps, then I would probably advise doing more back offsets at a lighter weight for instance. I'm not sure the program. But yeah, that's not a very difficult set of three, not certainly not a limit set, but it does look very tentative on the way down. But all right, moving on. So this is 275. I don't love the hate banner behind you, but you know, whatever you gotta do. Yeah, your gaze is too close to you. I was wondering if the bar was too low, but it's not, and then you're not taking a breath between your trap. I know it's just light for you, but you said it then, right? So I would take a breath between each wrap, I would move your gaze out a little bit and really focus on squeezing your chest into this like thoracic extension and take the hate banner down behind you. I put this next video in here. This is 3.95, I believe. So I don't love this angle, because I would like to get the feet and the bar, like the whole thing in the frame. So just back the camera, but it looks like it's using a regular camera too, because there's a little autofocus, lens breathing going on there, but yeah, so I can't see your feet, you know, and I can't see the bar now, but let's take a peek at this squat. So yeah, it looks a little deep and just loose at the bottom. So yeah, it's almost like your feet are descent increases, like you start it out like real tight and then you just kind of drop into the hole. So I'll just tell you to get tighter, but your elbow is look good, your head position looks good, and then, you know, the mechanics look pretty good too. I would just try to get a little tighter for each rep and maintain that tightness throughout the duration of the rep. Alright, this is why it, what is this? 3, this is 370. Yeah, I think so. Maybe 340, that's a 10. I see three plates. Yeah, your hips shot back just a little bit, but that's not bad. It's hard to tell depth given the angle of the video, that one. Yeah, you can see your back come a little unlocked, just out of the bottom, and then see your hips want to shoot back. So I would instead of thinkinGHip drive, if you're thinking that, I would think leg drive, keep your knees forward out of the bottom, and really try to keep your back squeeze tightly into position. I shouldn't improve some efficiency, but it's a nice set. Why it? Alright, this is 20 kilos. Yeah, these aren't bad presses. I would like to see again the whole frame, and I would hold the lock out, just hold the lock out, shrug, just a second, but the bar path looks pretty good, your little bounce looks pretty good. Yeah, nice. Alright, this Sergio, what is this? 65 kilos? It's a good arch, although, and I see you're not using collars, which is fine, because you don't have spotter, but I would just get a spotter problem. Yeah, looks pretty good. Bar path looks alright. That one came a little forward off your chest. Yeah, same thing. So it's like you're pushing straight up right off the chest, and it needs to go back towards the rack. So I'll try to throw the bar back faster off your chest. Yeah, why? That bar is forward. It looks like you're set up too far back, because you don't have a lift off, so you don't want to hit the uprights with the bar sits. So yeah, all these reps are forward. That's way too low on your chest, and you're having to like scoot it back around back towards the rack. So I would either ask for a hand off or figure out a way to un-rack the bar out of the rack by yourself. Alright, so this is Sean, what do you say? This was 360, I think. Yeah, I wish I could see you, the whole your whole body in the frame at the top, doesn't look like you're standing up all the way. Yes, it's like you're stopping and they come back down. I like the emoji, the weightlifting emoji, the background, and I would take an extra second on the on the floor. It looks like the bar is bouncing all the way all over the place, but they looked okay, you're back, it's good. Jamie, I think this is Jamie Douglas. Sumo deadlift, and she said this was like 342. Yeah, those look fine. Nothing wrong with this. I feel like I know this gym too. Anyway. Yeah, yeah, it looks okay. I think I could cue to like squeeze the slack out of the bar and then push the bar off the floor with a little little more tension, because it kind of looks like you're ripping it off the floor a little bit, but that you know, yeah, especially that last one, but it's not bad. Yeah, pretty decent. I think this is her husband. She said this was 405. More similar deadlifting. Yeah, that looks pretty good. Yeah. So you can, and this particular example, you can see the loridosis of the Lumbar spine, you know, pretty clearly. That's not always the case. So, you know, while you can see it clearly here, you might see another lifter where you don't see that loridosis as clearly, and it doesn't mean it's wrong. It's just, you know, different people. But yeah, I don't have anything to say about these deadlifts of that last one, so we'll forward. Yeah, it's a little bit, but, you know, pretty good. All right, another vertical video, just to troll me. So that one's not locked out. Uh, that's not locked out. Your back looks good. The bar position looks good. You're just not standing up all the way. So stand up tall, puff your chest out at the top, just, you know, say it with your chest. And, uh, yeah, last one was at closest one. Yeah, I just would yell at you to stand up each time. All right, so some of my trening, I got to meet coming up this weekend, so I just wanted to get this out. It was 550. It's probably where I'll open like that. This is 505. It was going to my feet. Yeah, a little forward. I like my dissent speed here, though. It's better than it's been. Less, less tentative, certainly. Yeah, it's pretty good. So 550 for a triple, no big deal. Did that for a couple sets. Not going to review all my trening. So this is 495. It is from a week or two before. 4 triple. I just wanted to put this in here. So again, I'm happy with the dissent speed. I'm looking at my feet as I can. Yeah, that's a little forward. Yeah, I need to focus on staying back. I could probably do a wider stance, but, um, I kind of messed with my hip. And so I just kind of gave up on it for this meat. This is 410. I'm going to do a pin bench on what show you guys some videos there. So that's pretty good for me. I think that was a PR at the time. And then this is 385. I did it after that. This is, uh, I think I do this for a triple. Yeah, the good thing about pin bench really forces you to like figure out how to throw the bar backwards off your chest. So in a regular bench press, you don't want to push the bar straight up. You want to push it back towards the rack. And a pin bench like requires you to do that. Uh, this is a 190 kilo pin bench. This is actually from this just this past week. Um, the week before I did 192.5, I thought I was going to go up a heavier. Um, but anyway, called it there. This is 190 for a regular cop bench. It's from Saturday. Yeah, so that's 192.5. It's probably going to be on a second attempt probably open at 185. Then you see if I can go 200 on a third or something like that. All right. So on some dead lifts, I'm going to look at the plates again. See if I roll the bar. This is 680. Sit here. Yeah, kicked it a little forward. Did it look hard, though. It was a 625, 620. I think I do this for four. Yes, so we're going to use a deadlift bar at the meat. So I got one. I've pulled on it once now. Um, just think I have a video here at the end. Pulled. Uh, on one in the meat before, but it's been like five years. So yeah, IMean, being strong is cool. So yeah, this is a deficit pull. Uh, 635 stiff bar, no belt, the straps. This is 585. I think I do this for triple. So that one kicked forward, but it's light. So 585. That's a little better. I'm just looking at the York logo as again. And then, uh, yeah, pretty good. But anyway, back to this deadlift bar thing. Uh, so, you know, having good deadlift strength is good, but the bar is kind of tricky. So this is my, you know, on the deadlift bar. This is 585 from a deficit, no belt. Pulled up. This is my second set of four. Uh, I lost the video of the single I did with 300. AV issues, but yeah, I think that I'm almost ready for this meat. So yeah, I've been coming up on Sunday, this Sunday. And 1808 class and the soup too we can do. So the plan's going to be trying to get close to 600 pounds, squat, uh, knee sleeves. That's, that's the idea. And then 440 on the bench would be nice. Third, and then if I can, uh, go over, uh, I think like 727 was where I had, uh, pegged for my, my deadlift. So we'll see. We'll see you out definitely vlog about it. This trening vlog is getting super long. So let's cut it here. If you guys like the video, uh, hit the like button, subscribe for all these content. Drop us a comment below. What you want to see next. And we'll catch you guys next time. See you. Austin's the extra for the barbell medicine group. You really enjoy this interacting. Matthew. Zainius. That's your middle name. You've been a little bit lazy. Be used to stand for Austin. Zainius. Or Rocky.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #32： First Powerlifting Meet in Four Years! [OV3xftgWh8A].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel, we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning and strengthen conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Fagrimam, and this is a meat recap. I just had a powerlifting meat mate 12, and I figured that it would be cool to take you guys through my meat day. Prior to this, my last meat was like four years ago, 2015, raw nationals, and the reason I hadn't done a meat for so long, the medical residency, and then I was doing a bunch of strong, strength lifting meats with the overhead press instead of the bench press, and so I actually didn't mean for it to go that long, but that's what happened. And so I knew I'd been wanting to do a meat, an actual powerlifting meat, but I kept putting it off, I kept putting it off, and I said, I was thinking, well, maybe I'll do it at the end of summer, maybe I'll do it in the fall, but then I started looking at my schedule, and I was like, oh dang, I actually don't have a good schedule coming up as far as having uninterrupted trening, it's of high priority. So for instance, I'm moving this summer, I was going to Europe for almost a month, an August to present a conference, and then the Barrow Medicine Seminar and Berlin, plus our older domestic Seminar, so I kind of just wanted to get a meat under my belt, while trening was going pretty well. So I found this meat down about two and a half hours south from where I live right now, and San Luis Obispo, and decided to sign up for it for weeks prior to the meat. So not necessarily a ton of prep for this meat, but trening was going well, and I kind of had an inkling that I was either going to test or go to a meat relatively soon, so no excuses there. So anyway, I wanted to take you guys through my meat day and give you guys a glimpse into what it was like. So first, let's talk about my weight. Normally I sit between two, three, two, five, that's like my standard walking around, weight, and for the USAPL and IPF, that's nicely to the 93 kilo class, but this is actually my first USPA meat, and again, just on short notice, I was just looking for a federation that had a meat nearby. So I realized they have a 198 class, and I was like, that won't be a big deal. So about a week out, I just reduced my calories a little bit, and I got down to, I guess it was 202, 201 and a half, rather, the Friday before the weigh, and so they do a 24 hour weigh. So anyway, I went to the sauna. Normally, I could get a two or five here, say, gill, this is the USK meat, 288, so if you have pounds over, you would take care of that right now, and it's on. Alright, we made it, I feel like a wet rat, but got away in Maro, and then he don't send it. And then the morning of the weigh-in, which was Saturday, May 11th, I was at 1.98.5, when I left the house, and it's again, it's like a 2 1 1 1 1 1 out drive, so I figured it wasn't going to be a big deal. Many of that. It's a little less comfortable that I'd like to eat, but I'll feed that until I can sit in the sauna, and I feel like to a little water, water can kind of make a check. It's just a wonderful battle, it's like that. It's an description of, for you guys, but many of it, the main problem is, I have a coffee and this is a big, so, I'm just trying to, I'm going to let it go. But, things we do for games. It was interesting when I got there for the weigh-in, we had morning weigh-ins, and so I stripped out, I get on the scale with the official right there. I stepped on the scale, says 90.2, and I was like, okay, this is not what I planned on, and then I stepped off the scale, and I stepped on the scale again, and it flashed to 90.2, and then down to 89.5 and stayed there. So, I don't know, you know, the scales, the digital scales are usually pretty accurate, and I have a competition scale here, the tenita comp scale that I spent way too much money on, but I just got sick of playing this weigh-teen game. That's a dad joke, you shouldn't laugh at that. But anyway, I was pretty confident that my weight was dead on, and so. So anyway, after I weighed in, I just went about my day, found a cough-is, ate normally, and the real thing was just getting more fluids back in me. So I didn't take a bunch of video of me just chowing down on food, but I really didn't do too much, because again, I didn't have to cut that much weight. So, that rest of the day was pretty low-key, normal Saturday for me, Sunday, and it went up pretty good breakfast in the hotel. Right to the just here in the morning of the meat, we'll go get some breakfast and just realized that it didn't make us meat-carb. I usually bought all my tenita and form up everything. So, I'm gonna do that. It's just fine. I'm out. I'm doing a beautiful day here in San Francisco, Tompsey, and then we're together. Then, yeah, just ready to go today. Then, went to the meat venue. Now, there were three flights. I was actually the first flight I expected to be the last flight, because I had a feeling that I was gonna be openinGHeavier than anybody else, but because I was a 198, the 180 weight class, I was lumped in the first flight with the 181s, and then the heavier competitors when the second and third flight. Now, if they had been going just by weight on the bar, I would have been in the last flight, but, you know, you don't get to pick these sort of things, and so is in the first flight. I would prefer to have been in the later flights just because, you know, I don't like lifting first thing in the morning, but it was all good. So, let's see on squats I opened at 250 kilos, which is 5, 51, and warmups felt okay. You know, no big deal there, and then I took my first attempt to 50. And I was going to show us, look at this, 551 pounds of defying weight of 1.97 super and impressive. Mixing weight is for joy. But, proud Jordan. Thank you, my dear. The 250 kilos felt good for the first attempt, and then I think my next attempt was what to 62, 5, which is 57, or something like that. Jordan. And that actually moved really well. I wasn't necessarily surprised with how well that it moved. I expected it to feel heavier, and I know you're thinking, wow, your face looks like you were strening pretty hard on that, but the speed was pretty good, and no big deal there. So I'd actually consider jumping to 275, or something like that, but then I decided to be conservative, go to 272.5, which is 600, which would have been an all-time meat PR for squats in knee sleeves. I've done 640, and it made before with knee wraps, but this would have been a PR in knee sleeves. And honestly, I was pretty confident that I was going to get it just based on my second attempt, then obviously that didn't work out so well. So I was already kind of bummed, because I did the meat because I wanted to PR on my lips. It's not just to go to the meat and try to win. That wasn't really that important to me. I just wanted to PR. So I was pretty bummed on that, and I'll be honest for like the next 10, 15 minutes. I was just bummed out about it. It's like the whole meat was ruined, but that wasn't true. And I had my pity party pouted a little bit, and yeah, I don't have any sort of inkling as to why I didn't make my third, it just wasn't there that day. So anyway, got ready for bench press, and I was really confident my bench trening going into this meat. So I actually bumped on my open right planned. At opening at 185, it was just 407, but I wanted to make a bigger jump from my first to my second, at least that's what I was thinking based on how well my bench treninGHas been going. So I opened at 411, 187 and half kilos. And I felt way worse than I wanted it to feel. Just way worse. And you know the interesting thing, I wasn't aware of this, I should have read the rulebook more thoroughly. The USPA meets you to supply your own liftoff person. And yeah, I would have preferred maybe more of a liftoff. I also noticed that on my first attempt in particular, I was way under the support, so I was way too close. So I needed to actually move out, although then it's harder to lift the weight out to the liftor. I don't know. It was finally a great hand-off. So I just, I would have liked to know, I would have liked to be prepared for that. So anyway, 187-5 moved not as good as I wanted it to, so I jumped to 195. And that felt actually better than my first attempt, because I think I pushed the bar back a little bit better. And then on my third attempt, I just jumped to 195, 2.5 kilo in cramming it just because 195 didn't feel great. I didn't go. I tried to move out even further on the bench press further away from the hooks, so I could actually push the bar back. It wasn't there that day. I don't know, even if I had Ray Williams giving me a liftoff, I'm not sure that I would have gotten that. It wasn't there, which was really surprising, because again, in trening, I'd pin benched 200 kilos, I'd benched 190 to 195 a bunch of times in the two or three weeks leading up to the meat. So I was really confident in my bench press. I had, compared to my squat or my deadlift, which also were going well, so that was another bummer. So between missing my third squat and my third bench I was kind of, it was hard to get rally for the deadlift. But got had some food, and then got ready for the deadlifts, and I figured, if anything is going to go right for this meat, it's going to be the deadlifts. So the warm up room, they had a Texas deadlift bar, which is, you know, it's a whip If you're bar then some of the other deadlift bars that are out there like the rogue deadlift bar which is not quite as wippy and also has wider hand spacing and not quite as wippy is the and in the Oki bar which is less wippy compared to the Texas bar. And any event, a well-used Texas bar is just fun to use if you're used to it because the bar just you know it's you pull on the bar and it gets to below your knees before the weight to leave the floor. So that's kind of fun although if you're not well-practiced on it sometimes you're list don't go up in any event. So in the warm-up room my last warm-up I think was 5.85 it that thing flew it was fine and then my opener was 6.60 but it's funny when I got out onto the platform and I went about my normal deadlift setups I thought they were using a stiff bar which is fine because I actually prefer using a stiff bar just if I especially if I'm trying to on a deadlift bar but it was a deadlift bar just it felt much much different and I'm not sure if it's because it was new or different brand or whatever you know it's just kind of a weird deal. 6.60 flew no big deal so I jumped to 700 that flew as well that was probably the fastest I've ever pulled 700. Come on Jordan and I honestly don't know what happened on the third pole I went to three I guess it was three thirty let's THIS And honestly, it's like I didn't even give it a good try. I don't know if I was tired or just kind of bummed out. But after my second pull at 700, I kind of felt like, oh, I'm gonna all pull this PR no big deal. It just wasn't there. So hard to say, like, I didn't hurt myself. You know, I felt fine. It just wasn't as strong as I wanted it to. So overall, the meat is not what I wanted, but it's what I had that day. IMean, it wasn't a bad performance. It means squatting five, seventy eight and benching four, twenty five and lifting seven hundred and one ninety seven and a one ninety eight weight class. You know, it's pretty good. It just, they, none of those were PRs for me, and I really wanted to do that. And when they're gold, that'll 7,725 kilos, but it's been four day and five. I'm called. On the other hand, I haven't really done a powerlifting meet, you know, in a long time. So this is a pretty good return to the sport. I can't even get a strong power with the open division. But they swallow it so four hundred and ninety four point five five five eight. So see Jordan, I'm called. And I'll probably do a meet in October. That's the plan right now. Just kind of looking at my schedule. And there's, I know there's a couple of meats in the area where I'll be living. So we'll see how I do. But first, I got a strong man meat. This idea that I was going to try to do these competitions before I ended up moving and Allen, and I'm going to throw all one of our barbell medicine coaches you guys know is the tren on the team guy. This got a powerlift or a strong man meat up at his gym. And so I ended up signing up for that. So I've been doing a bunch of strong man stuff. And honestly, it's beating the crap out of me. I've got these crazy marks on my arm that I don't, yeah, I don't know if I can show those to you guys. And then on my back from the yoke and then my hands are all beat up from the farmers walk, which is fine. It's like strong man is is a whole new deal. So we'll see. I'm excited to go out there and do that. And if you're in the area in Sacramento. June second, I think is what it is. You know, comes, come see me flounder in the, just strong man competition. It'll be fun though. I'm excited to do it. And I was excited to do this powerlift in me, USPA put on a great meat and had strong gym balance sandwich with this boat. Like a great place to tren to really appreciate them having me out there. And it was, it was a great, it was fun. You know, again, I left the meat, you know, feeling like I wanted to come back and compete and do better next time. So we'll see maybe October, maybe sometime other times this fall. And anyway, thanks for tuning in to the barbell medicine YouTube channel. Thanks for watching my meat recap. If you guys like the video, drop a like and a comment below share it with your friends if they want to see me lift. And we'll catch you guys next time. Thanks for watching. Bye.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #33： Static stretching, cancer and exercise, plus meet prep! [sG02f7uBNSU].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Fagan-Mom and this is trening blog number 33. I'm getting ready for this powerlifting meet that's a little over a week away. We've got somEQuestions that you guys have submitted and a bunch of form checks on both my own lifts and then some lifts that you have submitted as well. So let's not waste any time. Let's get right into thEQuestions. First question is from Perry Tate and it is on static stretching. So I decided to call up Dr. Michael Ray, get his input on this because he wrote a great article over on a website called Mobility Explained. So let's see what Dr. Ray has to say. Art's with got Dr. Michael Ray on the line right now. So we've got a question here on the Barbell Medicine blog from Perry Tate. ThEQuestion is what demographic would benefit from static stretching when and how should they stretch? And no stretching doesn't prevent or treat pain and injury and I know it's not the most specific way to get better at the squat or deadlift since most form difficulties are a result of improper coaching rather than poor mobility. My come back to that one. But I'm still curious to know when it might be useful. So Dr. Michael Ray, what do you think about static stretching? Yeah, this is an interesting discussion. It's typically defined as IMust hold taking an end range while LinkedIn and then held there for some period of time as static stretching and I wrote a really lengthy piece called Mobility Explained last year that really dives down the rabbit hole with this topic. I can't say that I recommended to any population currently, whether we're talking clinically or for talking for just general trening for athletes. And that's not just Barbell or is this in focus athlete, that's also sports specific like team base sports soccer rugby. So it doesn't seem to have any meaningful long-term effect for the populations that engage it and based on the research that we currently have on it. So it's difficult. I don't think I would recommend it for anyone at this time. IMean, that's certainly a change in the future. But the way I look at this is it's kind of return on investment. So the cost of investment would be lifetime effort and potentially money if I'm playing someone else just statically stretch me. And then what's the return on that and right now the return just doesn't seem meaningful enough to put time into it. It doesn't improve performance and in fact, if we're specifically just talking about static stretching, we have evidence that it decreases performance for strength and power focused athletes and will speed agility athletes. And so I wouldn't do it because we're going to have a negative out of that for those athletes. Specifically, it doesn't reduce the risk for injury. Yeah, interestingly, some data actually shows that it increases the risk for injury. Yeah. And so those are the kind of the two big ones and the third one people are like, oh, well, jobs and it turns out we actually have a copper review on that and it's no positive benefit for delayed onset muscle soreness in a meaningful way. So and then that's kind of what mobility explained that block goes through. It's like it just knocks down all the common narratives based on what we're seeing in the evidence. So I can't think of a reason to recommend it at this time. Usually where this goes back to is people asking all the time, well, what about yoga and my kind of thought processes if it gets you doing something something is better than nothing. So much rather, see you be active through doing yoga and some of maybe the positive kind of cognitive and mental size of that engaging in that process. And I would be much more inclined to be like, well, if that gets you doing something, then I'm okay with that. And oftentimes, yoga is not just statically held positions at in-range. But people think what's statically a lot of times it's ice and metric as well, holding a position like warrior two or something, you know. So I'm much more okay with that, camp then versus like, oh, you have low back pain because you have a quote unquote tight hamstrings and we just see to stretch them or tight so as that's a really, really bad narrative that can instill some not super ineviors long term. Question number two is actually on to particular cancer. And so we're going to cover some of the nuances of that particular condition and then expand it towards trening, considerations for cancer patients in general. So let's start off with thEQuestion is from Steven. He says I was recently diagnosed with testicular cancer at 24 years old and went through an orchieth academy of one of my testicles this past week. I was wondering what the long term effects of this may cause for my strength pursuit with only one testicle going forward. Is this going to limit my ability to gain and maintain muscle slash strength at all? Should I look into TRT treatments? Any feedback would be much appreciated. This is a great place to actually say that none of this constitutes medical advice. This is all for infotainment purposes. You should definitely follow up with your doctor with respect to management, treatment, an evaluation of any medical condition. So this is more of a discussion in general sense. So again, I'm not your doctor. This is not constitute medical advice. Please follow up your own provider. So with that in mind, let's talk about this in a more general sense. So when orchieth academy is a surgical procedure to actually remove one or both testicles one is called a unilateral orchieth academy and then if both are moved that say bilateral orchieth to me. Similarly, this is the initial treatment for most testicular cancers and then also tends to be diagnostic in that you get to send the tissue off for pathology and then further evaluate the patient for staging. And any event the survival rates pretty good, five years of average, greater than 95% were pretty good at treating this sort of stuff. So after the orchidectomy, we have some good news and some bad news. The good news is most of these cancers are curable. In fact, the five years survival rates greater than 95%. The bad news is that your risk of having low testosterone is significantly increased with a unilateral orchieth academy where we remove one testicle. And the risk of low testosterone is even higher for those undergoing bilateral orchieth and we're both testicles removed because you're removing the specialized tissue that produces testosterone, the light excels in the testies. Dr. Gilligan of the American Society of Clinical Anthropology says we can cure about 19 out of 20 cases of testicular cancer, but a significant number of testicular cancers survivors have low testosterone and economic other aspects of health. So we look at a study on 1200 men who all had testicular cancer, how do unilateral orchieth academy? And you compare them to 200 matched controls, age matched controls. And you look at the sort of risk of male hypogonetism. It was increased by almosT4fold in those who had the unilateral orchieth academy and the risk was increased with the intensity of treatment. So increase amounts of chemotherapy, radiation, or additional surgical procedures all can't confer increased risk. So thEQuestion then becomes, what do you do with this information? And this is really similar to the recommendation we give towards the general population. If you have physical signs of male hypogonetism, it should be assessed properly via appropriate testing and additional medical history gathering. So these symptoms would include decreased vigor and libido, depressed mood, decreased muscle mass, and body hair actually less common takes much longer time for those things to manifest. And there are additional signs and symptoms that your doctor will work you up for. These are all non-specific symptoms, meaning that they don't always correlate to a low testosterone. And so what you would do if you have these symptoms is just talked to your doctor about them and you would be evaluated appropriately. Now if you have a patient who's recently undergone a unilateral orchieth academy, then you might be a little bit more vigilant about, hey, I need to monitor this a little bit more closely compared to somebody you hadn't had that procedure. For more information on male hypogonetism, I've actually linked an article from Dr. Baraki in the description below so you guys can check that out. So shifting away from specifically testicular cancer to the more general question of cancer and exercise, what do? There's an interesting tren for people with cancer actually decreasing their physical activity. So 75% of individuals report decreasing their physical activity levels after the diagnosis whereas only 4% report increasing their physical activity after the diagnosis. So the main predictors of people decreasing their physical activity after a cancer diagnosis are undergoing chemotherapy, being diagnosed with metastatic disease or having undergo surgery. And similar to other diseases, it's very important for those with cancer to actually maintain or increase their physical activity levels to meet the sort of minimum requirements. We'll look at mortality and cancer and physical signs that predict a poor outcome, weight loss history, loss of muscle mass, loss of muscle size. So looking at a study on about 1500 individuals, either GI or lung cancer, if individuals had all three of these poor, prognostic variables, they survive for about 8.4 months, regardless of their BMI so that means it doesn't matter if they were obese, if they were overweight, normal weight or underweight and if they had none of those features, their average survival was about 28 and a half months. And I think a lot of that comes back to having increased anaabolic resistance. So when you think about anaabolic resistance, that just means a sub normal response to anaabolic stimuli, dietary protein for example, trening for example or the hormonal milieu. So testosterone and other anaabolic hormones. So when you think about individuals with cancer who are undergoing treatment, they have a lot of things that are actually promoting anaabolic resistance like chemotherapy, which causes inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, fatigue, weight loss, radiation therapy, has systemic effects, again, making people tired, weight loss, et cetera. And they might also be on medications like that deprived them of angergen, so reducinGHormonal concentrations in the case of this bilateral or kiectomy for example or other conditions. Whether it might be taking glucocorticoids, which also promote anaabolic resistance. On the other side of this, we have tools that we can promote anaabolic sensitivity. So the first sort of arrow in our quiver would be resistance trening. There's a dose response relationship between the amount of trening that you can get somebody to do and their improvement in strength, in lean body mass, in skeletal muscle index, all of these things. One of the problems with recommending exercise in cancer patients who do tend to be older is that it's underdosed. And when we look at this choosing wisely initiative, which is from the American Board of Internal Medicine, and in this particular case, supported by the American Physical Therapy Association, they specifically say, do not underdose strength trening programs for older adults. And instead match the frequency intensity and duration of the exercise to an individual's abilities and goals. What we'd like to do, again, is to increase the amount of resistance trening, increase the amount of total physical activity that these people are doing to start combating some of that anaabolic resistance. The second strategy we have, or the second arrow in our quiver, is to engage in a dietary change that would overcome some of those anaabolic resistance. So right now, the RDA for protein intake in the United States is 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day. However, this fails to account for anaabolic resistance and protein quality. And contrast to the RDA, the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism actually published in different guidelines for healthy aging and adults, and also specifically makes mention of cancer patients. And so they're recommended protein intake is 1.2 to 2.0 grams per kilogram body weight per day, which is almost double that of the RDA. The idea is that the amount of essential amino acids that are concentrated in a meal, and that includes the branch channel amino acids, specifically loose-scene. The idea is that you'd want enough of those per meal in order to overcome this anaabolic resistance so that you can maintain or even improve muscle mass and skeletal muscle index and skeletal muscle function and prevent some of that weight loss associated with cancer treatment. That's 1.2 to 2.0 grams per kilogram body weight per day, which breaks down to 0.4 to 0.66 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per meal. And so the benefits of engaging in this resistance trening and increase in dietary protein obviously increase lean body mass, increase muscle strength, increase muscle function in cancer patients. You get a reduction in cancer related fatigue, improvement in their quality of life. You also get increased rates of chemotherapy completion, meaning that individuals who are undergoing the physical activity changes and the dietary changes are actually able to complete all of their chemotherapy course, which is obviously beneficial for other cancer outcomes. And then finally, there's a reduced risk of cancer-specific and all-cause mortality for individuals who are engaging in these physical activity guidelines. So what are the recommendations? The 2018 Physical activity guidelines for Americans suggested on 2 to 3 days per week, adult should perform resistance exercises of moderate or greater intensity for each of the major muscle groups. They also suggest that individuals obtain 150 to 300 minutes of moderate intensity aerobic trening or 75 to 150 minutes of vigorous intensity aerobic trening. And for a more thorough discussion on that, we would recommend that you read our free beginner prescription text. We talk about that extensively in there. This recommendation is also supported by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. That'll be instead there are some special populations that we should make specific considerations for when we're talking about exercise programming. So for instance, there are treatment related complications such as lymphedema. It's basically swelling that occurs in an arm or leg or sometimes both arms, both legs, usually due to removal or damage to the lymph nodes as part of cancer treatment. That being said, we do have data suggesting that high intensity resistance trening is safe in this population. That doesn't mean we should ignore that somebody has lymphedema, but rather we can encourage them to exercise and then manage the actual trening based on the symptoms that they have during the exercise. There's also a concern for fracture in cancer is that either invade the bone from a primary tumor or from a metastatic cancer. However, early evidence suggests that resistance trening is safe in metastatic prostate cancer. And there's established safety and efficacy of high intensity resistance trening in other conditions where there's bone loss such as osteoporosis. That being said, we probably shouldn't ignore that somebody has this condition, but rather be cautious and monitor symptoms over time, adjust trening as needed. And there are a whole host of other side effects that may be caused by cancer treatment, for instance peripheral neuropathy, which is basically an issue in the nerves carrying the signals from the brain or spinal cord to the muscles they can become damaged due to the medications. This is called chemo-induced peripheral neuropathy. That being said, there's actually evidence suggesting that exercise may reduce the peripheral neuropathy symptoms. And despite the sort of widespread relief that physical activity is not safe for those with peripheral neuropathy, there's substantial evidence, particularly from diabetic patients, suggesting that exercise is not only safe, meaning that they don't have an increased risk of injury, but actually is, again, beneficial to those with peripheral neuropathy. This is definitely not an exhaustive list of all potential side effects that people can have from cancer-related treatments. That being said, the underlying premise here is that there's a known benefit of meeting these physical activity guidelines or exceeding them in this population. And so, combined that with the known risk of being sedentary and it appears that the risks probably outweigh the benefits, although, again, each case is going to be different and we would recommend that you have this conversation with your physician. Overall, though, we should be encouraging increased physical activity and dietary changes in this population. All right, so we talked about stretching and we talked about cancer and exercise. Now let's go to some of these form checks and see what we can do. All right, so we'll start up here with Col G. This is 370 for 5. Camera angles weird because it's above your hip, so it's hard to tell depth. Yeah, it looks close. I wouldn't probably argue with you about that. It doesn't look like you're shifting your butt back out of the bottom yet rather than straight up, like you're scooting your butt back. Your feet are staying flat on the floor, so that's good. But I can see your knees are also caving in from here, and I think it's because your stance is so wide. It's hard to keep your knees out. So I would probably narrow your stance just a little bit, and instead of thinkinGHip drive, like hip-scope back, I think leg drive, hip-scope straight up. You could also think about keeping your knees forward out of the bottom. That was a little bit better. But, all right, this next video is from Andy. That's my whole choose. I sold my old Reebok legacies. This is 405 for 3. Let's see. Now, on your toes a little bit on that one, depth is good though. Yeah, it's still on your toes a little bit. I can see just because your heels are coming up just as a smidgen. Yeah, same on that one, even though you cut that out of the video. So I try to get off your toes when you're squatting. Unknown weight is Madeline, high bar squat. Your elbows are way high, just right off the bat. It doesn't make you bad person, but I would just bring your elbows down. Yeah, tuck your elbows down the side. Yeah, these are like well below parallel. You know, if you want to squat that deep, that's fine by me. But these aren't, they're not bad. I would just adjust your elbows. Yeah, so bastion 391 freedom units for set of five. Yeah, your heels are coming up off the ground at the bottom. I like those socks though, three stripes. Yeah, so it's what I would do is try to get off your toes. And your shoving your butt back as a response. So I would probably try to push your knees further forward and keep them there at the bottom. Yeah, see how you're shoving your butt back. And it's kind of you're getting that good morning-esque thing. I know that because I've done that a bunch. But yeah, I see daylight underneath your heels underneath your feet. Doesn't make you bad person, but this is Kristen. I think it's 195. I wish I could see all of your foot and the silhouette's kind of difficult to judge here. But it is what it is. Yeah, the depth looks right. IMean, it's right on there. I actually don't think it's bad. I just think that the silhouette is tough to tell. Yeah, you see how you're, again, shifting back out of the bottom. I would aim to try to keep your knees in place coming out of the bottom. Push your hips forward on the way up, rather than thinking about. Yeah, that would see. There you go. It hits go forward. That was a little better in the last row. Okay, pause squats. It's 345. I said a four. There's a good angle. Good diagnostic coaching angle here. Yeah, the pause is pretty good. It's just right at parallel, which I'm not concerned about. I think you're okay. I look at your feet. Yeah, the pause is good. It's just right at parallel. A feet are good. Back angles good. I can't see your elbows from here, but that one was deeper. Yeah. And it's like you're sinking a little bit. Just a, you're just sinking a little bit at the bottom, like while it's moving. Yeah, so those are fine. Those are fine for set of four. I call that RP7 or eight. This is Mani 155, I think, this is what this is for five. Yeah, I wish I would go to see you pull your shoulder blades back before each rep. Because it looks like your pro-tracted. And I would just try to have you pull your shoulder blades back, push your chest up into the bar. Yeah, let's see the only thing I'm seeing right now. We don't have much leg drive here, and it's not bad. It's not bad. You hit the rack, I think, on the way up to there. So it's hard to kind of do this with the self-handoff and everything. But I would have you scoot down away from the pins a little bit, where you can still unwrap if you're not going to hit the pins. Yeah, it will bridge there. And then pull your shoulder blades back and take a big breath for each rep. Not bad, set though. It's 375 for 3. Sumo. We're doing the devil's work. Fap A, I see your knees cave in in a little bit off the floor, and if you can keep them out, IMean, it's just minor. It's just real light. So not a bad set. 355 before, this is Jason. It looks like 335 from here. Unless there's a 10 somewhere else or a 55 pound plate. Yeah, so let's just watch the logo on the plate. See if he moves him at all. Yeah, it's not bad. But look, you're just taking too long between reps. Go, hurt 3, 2, 1, pull. You think about it. You're going to make it heavier. Yeah, also don't change your gaze position. Pick a spot, look at it. Yeah, none of these are bad. That's not even, IMean, Rp7, 8. Nice job. 331 for set of 5. Yeah, so lock, I want you to stand up the top of every pull. Yeah, you're just like a little short. Stand up, lock it, wait for the applause. And then I would try to get you to set your lower back just a little flatter. It's just, yeah, it's almost like your hips are like a half inch low. It's hard for you to get that last bit of extension. So it raises your hips up a half inch. Really squeeze your low back into extension. And then yeah, that lap, just lock them out all like that last one. Sick belt, man. Okay, this is, uh, yeah, three weeks ago, two weeks ago. It's 5.73. Fine. It's all I can say. This is 601. This is the last week, I believe. Yeah, so I ready this in eight. Move pretty well. Now we get to watch it in slow mode. Yes, you can watch the feet. So the heels, you don't see the heels come up. You don't see the toes come up anything like that. That depth is good. Good eyebrow drive. Oh yeah. There's 190. Yeah, you get to see some bench presses that are overshot. I don't know. I'll show you guys my whole bench set up and some of these videos. But yeah, bench hasn't been feeling the greatest, but I think it's coming around. They were turning corners. Just 1490 kilos. Yeah, pause a little short and then I punched it a little forward. That's why it kind of slowed down on the way up. But still went, this is 190 a week later, 192.5, 425 pounds. Claire is not impressed. But you know, what are you going to do? Not bench press. You can see my whole setup. All right, so just watch to see how the borroth is here. Yeah, the pause was short and I actually think that's hurting me. So yeah, pause was short. Luckily, this week I had some good benching in, so we'll say that for the next vlog. All right, so this is 180 kilos. Two count pause bench, overexposed. Yeah, she got some more of this bench setup. We'll talk about it in detail. Yeah, so the idea is that you want to push the bar back off the chest. You can see it on that video pretty well. And now this is 358 for a triple. Yeah, and just watch the bar, you want the bar to go back off the chest first. So it's not up and back like in a diagonal. Like you're only scooping it back that initial, that initial movement. Yeah, and this is the next week. So this is last week I believe. 413, 2 count pause bench, paused. Yep, IMight have been better in my comp bench. 170 kilos, 374, more two count pause bench. It must be the pink. It must be the pink, you know? Yeah. So again, just right off the chest, shoving it back, this is pretty good. I'm happy with those pauses. Happy with those pauses. All things considered. Okay, so we're just going to watch this. This is a 363 plus 100, some change in chains. Now they all come off the floor. So who knows what this is? Probably like 43440 something like that at the top. So watch in slow mode. And now watch this in slow mode, go through this step. So take a grip. Mine's about pinkies on the ring. Maybe a little narrower than that. Step two is going to be to take your arch now. I do this by levering myself against the bar. Now this is mostly in your lumbar spine. People say it's the thoracic thing. No, it's not. Pin your shoulder blades back to the bench. That's active shoulder retraction. Get the lift off. Big breath. And now you're going to initiate the descent. The descent. And then to drive the bar off the chest, you're going to drive your heels forward. Push the bar up and back towards the rack. Rack. Step 10 is not in here. Profit. So that's my little bench set. If you can watch that again, if you like. Close grip bench, pause. Yeah, that was good. You see the bar go back on that one. This is the week after. Looking thick with three seas bro. This is 185 kilos 407. Yeah, it's been hot. It's been hot, man. I feel like there's just too much hair. Yeah, what are you going to do? Yeah, and you see that scoop back. That was actually a little late, but I'm happy with that. Considering the weight and yeah, close grip bench is going well. Our dead lift time. I like that I set up these videos like a power lift to meet. This is 700. This was two weeks ago. I think yep, something like that. So 317.5 700 pounds. People ask me why do this like these hip things? I think it's just to get mentally prepared to pull this weight. But yeah, it's moved pretty well. Kept it on my legs. I looked at the Ivanka on, didn't kick it forward. Okay, what is this? 325, 716. I think there's a week ago. I'll think I'll think. Rock. No, I'm gonna kick it forward. I feel it. There it is, yeah. And all that flex in the bar is off my left leg. And I could have looked it out better. That's this is 66. Yep. That's second one's a little forward. And tell you, just because it's a little slow off floor, but that plates aren't moving so I'm not kicking anymore. Third one. Hey, good luck out. Look at you, you're capable of it. On 60 off of deficit, I actually did this after I did my pin squats and I have a bench press, so kind of a weird schedule that week, but that's good. More deficit pulls is 550. So you're gonna just look at the Ivanka logo and just see if it kick it forward. Yeah, you're pretty good. That's light. So now this is 600. IMight write knees, came in a little bit. I don't know if my stance is too wide, or if I'm just standing awkwardly. Is the platform or something? And it's all right, still movEQuickly. All right, what is this? 290. Again, looking at the logos on the plates. And a little bit, that was a little touch forward. Yeah. That was better. I guess this actually is heavy, huh? Yeah, third one was best one. Nice, cool. And then now, what was this? 672? I probably overshot that. Not bad though, not bad. So what I ended up doing on this particular day, I didn't want to overshoot my single, the day before I had Penn Squad at 585 for one, and that was, I overshot. And so I didn't want to do that again. So I just did my tripals all the way up 37, 380, 380, 380, 9, and then pulled my single afterwards. And so that's how that worked out. The single at eight, probably was probably higher than that, probably aromasingle at nine, but given the fatigue building up, I was okay with it and accomplished the goals for the day. In any event, it's first trening vlog in a while. We got another one drop in next week, then the meat trening vlog, and then a bunch of other new content coming up. So hit subscribe, you can stay up to date with all the latest content. Drop us a comment below. I'm going to read the top comments on the next video. So again, another trening vlog, drop it next week, then the meat vlog, much of all the new content. It's going to be great. Hope to see you there. Thank you so much for watching. See you next time.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #34： 2019 San Diego Fit Expo Powerlifting Meet Recap [XMiRkKxjqt4].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel where we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning and strengthening conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum, and this is trening vlog number 34. I want to apparel with you, meet, and I want to bring you guys with me. All right, walking to the East San Diego FedEx, but we're going to weigh in. Actually, right down the street from my place, like a 20-minute walk, so I figured, get some steps in today. Enjoy the scenery and sounds of San Diego, so try to figure out where this thing is, go in. I'm going to guess 205, 205, 205 something like that. We'll see how right I will. I don't want no cover, I want change. I don't want the second, I want dance. I'm burning my ass where I'm all right. I'm in moving like a hug. All right, just wait in, 93.6 kilos, so 205, I've got a lot. I'm going to go home each second practice, the day is morning, and yeah, chill out, rest day, come back tomorrow, and you can do it. So obviously, I did not cut to the 90 kilo or 1.98 class, like I normally do, rather I just wait in when I normally weigh in at, which is about 93 kilos or 205. I'm about 5, 10, and I just walk around at 200 to 205. It's my normal walking around weight, and I just didn't want to cut for this meat. Rather, I was more focused on the performance at this meat. I really had some all-time PRs that I wanted to hit, and I just didn't want to mess around with cutting. In fact, I just ate what I normally ate throughout the week. I ate breakfast the morning before I weighed in. Could I have cut to 90 kilos? Sure, it probably wouldn't have been a big deal. So the reality is I just didn't want to add any extra stress to this meat. It was super convenient. Going to this meat right down the street for me, I walked there. The venue is nice. A lot of people there, big crowd. So yeah, it was going to be a lot of fun. I didn't want to, like, sell it any of that by cutting weight. Well, I ever go back down in the 90 kilo or 1.98 class again. Maybe it really just depends on what the focus is on the meat. If I want to be competitive to win the meat or win best-lifter, which is usually scored on Wilkes or something like that, or set an all-time top 20 total in a particular weight class. Yeah, obviously, I would want to do that at the lightest bodyweight possible with the highest total. That means that I don't know that those are my goals right now. Rather, I just have some numbers that I want to hit. So for the foreseeable future, I'll probably just weigh in at my normal walking around bodyweight. And as I keep trying to add lean body mass, slowly, but surely try to get a little bit stronger. I don't know that my body weight is actually going to try and down. All right, day of the meat. And to the actual spot where we're going to live, but we're in the middle of a fit expo, convention center. It's like a ghost town in here right now. Like, where's everybody at? Where are all the fit spos? I don't smell the white rain and I don't see any glitter dust in the air coming up on the venue. Here we go. That's it. That's where we're going to be. So get a setup changed. And now ready to do battle today. All right, so we'll start out here on the squad attempts. All right, so we start off this is 260 kilos, 5, 7, E3. Now Leah's filming from the front using my camera. There's like this barrier though. So some of the videos are actually cut like at the bottom. There's been nice pan down, but we have some side views that Claire took Claire. Zai was actually handling me. She's a biGHelp. You see her in the background there. She's actually competing this weekend. So good luck to Claire. Good depth. Good speed. I can't see my feet. So I want to see if I actually shifted back at all, but yeah, good squad. Nice way to open. And so from there, I jumped to 272.5. But let's watch this again from the side. So again, this is 260 or 573. Good walkout. Probably too many steps, but that's just, you know, what I like. That is good. Yeah, no problems there. Okay, so second attempt was 272.5. Just trying to get that bar nice and low on my back. I have a tendency to sometimes have it a little high, like about a half inch high. It's not so great. This is 600 pounds, 601. You notice I look up to get the squad command. And so yeah, from this angle, IMean, that's pretty good speed there for 600. I wish that guy would stop touching me. It was kind of weird. But actually, miss that squad. So it was two reds to one white. They said that I was at parallel. Did I didn't quite go low enough. So we'll check it out from the side. This is again, not that greatest angle because it looks like it's above hit level and also from behind. So it can kind of lie to you. Preferting goes directly from the side if you're going to look at depth, right at hip height. But we'll check this out. It keeps touching me on my belt. I wish I don't like that. Yeah, so IMean, I agree that it wasn't buried certainly. And so I agree with the ruling. So I stayed the same. I was hoping to get up to 280 on my squad. So, you know, it took some San kilos off. But I just repeated 601 again. This is 2002 and a half kilos. And, you know, the problem after you get called on depth, I've never been called on depth for my entire life. Is that it's hard to do the same squad. You really want to focus on depth. So yeah, much slower tempo. And then, you know, that's probably harder than I wanted it to be. But I got depth. I goT3 whites. And I was pretty psyched about that. Yeah. So that's a meat PR for me in knee sleeves. So the most I've ever done in a full powerlifting meat prior to this was actually 573 in knee sleeves. So that was a 27 pound PR. And we'll watch this again from the side. So yeah, I had to go much slower just to make sure that I got down there didn't rebound off that. But yeah, that was a good squad. Three whites. So went into bench. Opened up here. This is 185. Give my grip set. Set the arch. Yeah, so no problems there. I felt like that was, you know, right on par for my open or should be. So this is 190 2.5 or 30. I've actually hit this in a neat twice before. Clairs give me good handoffs. Yep, good pause. And I thought that was pretty easy. I thought that moved very well. So I rated that like a 8.5. So after one 92.5 moved so well. Jump up to 197.5. Just wanted to make a nice conservative jump. Yeah, touched a little low there. Yeah, that makes sense. Then this is actually the first time I've watched any of these videos. So yeah, the bench thing, I hit 190 2.5, 430 in competition twice prior to this meet. So once in 2014 and once in the meet in May, and IMissed 190 5 at the meet in May. Bench actually this trening cycle didn't go that well. So 197.5 out of taking that meet PR that have been great. I've hit 240 in trening before and I didn't want to get greedy. As fast as 190 2.5 moved, I had considered calling for 200. So I would have put me on track or at least back on track towards hitting or a tie in my best total. And any event, I thought 197.5 is going to be conservative on that particular app. I just touched too low and I think it's just too heavy to mess up. So that was me. That was my fault on that one. So definitely one thing to work on going forward. You know, just in addition to getting stronger, but just making sure to execute. Would not recommend touching the bar to low at PR or near PR levels. All right, so moving on to deadlift. This is 305, 672. This ties my best triple in the gym. Pretty conservative. Opener, I do like making big jumps on the deadlift. So let's check this out. Yep, pretty good. Move fast. You see I get one red in the background. My right knee apparently wasn't locked all the way up. I'll take the two to one decision. I was a decent pull. So that being said, my warm-up's actually didn't feel that great. And on the platform, that didn't feel that great either. So my plan was to jump to 330, which is 727. But it's then I jumped at 325, which is 716. Effectively, I thought 325 would be a hard rep, but not a limit rep. And then 335 would have probably been my max for the day. That was the plan. So next attempt here was 325. Little, little barking during the walk-up. And smile. Got a smile. You know, you're supposed to be having fun. See how this looks. Yeah, it's a little a little forward. The bar is a little forward. Off the floor. Probably made it feel a little slower. Yeah, but I got 3 lights pumped about that. Yeah, so I jumped actually to 330 because again, 325 didn't feel like this total smoke show where it's like, oh, you have so much left in the tank. You could go tie your best trening pull. So I thought again, I'd be conservative and just go to 330. So that's the plan. 330 is loaded on the bar. That's 727. My best pull in a meet is 725. So what have been two pound PR? Although those were not on calibrated kilo plates. So the further the plates are spaced up off the bar, the more it'll whip and calibrated kilo plates don't take up that much space on the bar. So there's some discrepancy there. Yeah, net bar. IMean, I'm just behind the bar. I can tell super frustrating. Honestly, deadless were going the best out of any of my lifts all throughout trening. I pulled 700, a number of times in trening. I had rep PRs. I hit an all-time PR of 3305 kilo 738. The next one is the one that's been on the top of the bar. The next one is the one that's been on the top of the bar. The next one is the one that's been on the top of the bar. The next one is the one that's been on the top of the bar. And yeah, so deadless were just going super well. I'll unsure why things felt like they did at this meet. So overall, the meet was good, but not great. And that's kind of what I told Claire and Leah and anybody who's been asking, you know, hey, how to go. It was a good meet, but not a great meet. I performed well. I said a squat PR. My total went up about 50 pounds from the last meet I did in May. So I can't be upset about it. I'm just not satisfied with the numbers that I was actually shooting for and that my trening actually kind of indicated. First, having to take my second squat again because it was high. It didn't rattle me. It just definitely threw me off the plan. The plan was to try to go up to 280 kilos. That would have set me up for success there. So it was problematic having to repeat 272.5 because I already I was in a hole. So definitely want to work on making sure that each rep that I do no matter if it's a rep effort set or pin squats or competition squats that all them are done to competition depth. IMean, sometimes this happens. I've never been called on depth before. So it was really surprising, but you know, it do be like that sometimes. On bench, my bench actually was not going very well in trening. The heavyest bench that I had performed in trening was actually 192.5. In contrast, my bench trening prior to the meet in May, I'd actually pin benched 200 kilos. So things weren't going terribly well. Like, oh my gosh, I'm going to set an all-time bench PR at this meet. But that being said, at the meet, things really did come together for my bench press. 192.5 felt so good. 197.5. I was sure that was going to go. And honestly, if I wouldn't attach it to low for what IMade a technical error, I think it would have been there. So that's my bad. I really do like the taper that I did for my bench for this particular meet. So I think I'll use that again. I do think that the trening leading up to the meet is going to be a little different with a little bit more volume. And maybe use some of the variations that I prefer a little bit more like pin bench. I didn't use this time around where I did use like a five-count pause bench. I did bench with chains this time around where as last time I was using the sling shot a little bit more. So I think I'll have some variations be changed and then I'll still use the same taper. The OXER worked really well. Squat programming I think was spot on, squat taper, spot on. The only real thing that was confusing to me was my deadlift. I'd pull that 738 in trening that felt so good and then to get to the meet and my deadlift was kind of flat. IMean even during warmups. And I don't know if I was just tired, you know, just from the squat, from the bench press and then being at the meet. It seems unlikely. IMean I have a few squat bench deadlift days in trening. So there one option would be to increase the frequency of doing the squat bench deadlift days to make sure the conditioning is on point and that kind of use to doing those when you go to the meet. So that's one option. And then to the taper I use this time for my deadlift. I don't think that I would do that again. One thing that I've been worrying about is we're thinking about the least is that like the more well-trened you become, the better you are at tolerating the trening, general and recovering from the trening. I was worried that if I didn't pull anything during the week leading up to the meet that I actually would get significantly weaker, detrened a little bit. And the meet was on Sunday. So on Monday actually pulled my opener and then I pulled some backoffs like five, sixty-one or something like that. Some sets of five and I didn't think anything of it. And you know, maybe it doesn't mean anything but I know that traditionally my taper on the deadlift is I actually don't pull anything that last week. When I get to let my hands heal up too, I just typically have not done any pulls and I get to kind of recover a little bit better by not pulling. So I think the next meet I'm just not going to pull the week before the meet. Even if it is on a Sunday, I just, you know, that's worked well for me historically. I just, you know, thought this time maybe maybe take it up a notch with respect to performance. So IMessed that one up. That's on me. And maybe some more squat bench deadlift days and we talked about squat at the bench already. So overall, good meet. Not a great meet. Still chasing this 1800 pound unicorn total. So I'd like to do that and we'll look for a meet maybe first quarter 2020. Got a lot of travel coming up. A lot of barbell medicine events. Hope to see you guys there. But yeah, we'll plan for something first quarter 2020. Take another run at this 1800 pound total. And then finally you guys write so many funny comments on these videos most of the time. Most of the time they're funny or they'rEQuestions. So we answer them. But I wanted to read some of them because these are great. So this is from the last trening vlog. Druce sayinGHe says, I lose brain cells when you don't post vlogs. I lose brain cells when I don't post vlogs or maybe I lose brain cells when I'm editing the vlogs because I stare at the screen for too long. I don't know. But I'm going to keep posting them. If I start getting done or just let me know. Huff entry says, could to see you Jordan and your parents on the iron culture podcast was great by the way. I enjoy it when you mingle with other fitness personality and expose them to barbell medicines approach. Thanks man. Yes. So I was on the iron culture podcast with Omar Isof and Dr. Eric Helms and Dr. Quinn Henach and Nick and Omar Isof. It was a good time. So if you guys haven't checked that episode out, it's literally all about pain. And we talk about the biosec social model, the biomedical model. And there's a lot of practical little pearls in there. And apologies to Nick and advance. I've forgotten your last name and I'm recording this thing and I know your great guy. I'm sorry. It's a really cool episode though. So check to check that out. Back to basics says, I'm just saying, grow your beard out. It will definitely add 10 kilos to your current lifts. Like if I had a beard that came down here, I just feel like as much as I travel, I don't want to be on a TSA no fly list. I feel like, you know, it's got potential. So maybe, but you know, Alan does fine. So maybe if we had matching beards, people would either think that we're easy top or, you know, I'd be fine. So maybe, maybe. And any of that, thank you guys so much for watching the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. Thanks for watching this vlog. Make sure to subscribe if you want to stay up to date with all latest content. Leave a comment below. IMight read them on our next vlog. And then if you want to submit your own form checks, your own questions, anything like that to be answered right here on this YouTube channel. Send them over to mediabarbometasand.com. If you're sending them over a lifting video, please turn your phone sideways. Okay, make landscape, ideally 1080p higher. And send me a set of like 5, 6 multiple reps, not just aromasingle. And yeah, if it's good, we'll put it on the old YouTube channel and give you a form check. So anyway, thank you guys so much for watching. Catch you next time. See you.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #35： 2019 USAPL Raw Nationals [-fu4oqOuXZo].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. We'll be bringing modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host Dr. Jordan Faganbaum and this is tren of Long number 35. This is our recap of the 2019 USAPL RAW Nationals held in Lombard, Illinois. So for this vlog we've got meat footage from Lorraine Baraki Sam Cowham and Charlie Dix and Lea Lutz and Claire Zai. So what we'll do is we'll take a look at all the footage that we have. Sometimes we use the announcers commentary if it's relevant, audible and good. If it's not you'll hear me narrating, trying to set the scene and then we have some other cool stuff in turn mixed and at the end there's this or that section where Dr. Baraki and I go back and forth on some users submitted questions. So hopefully you guys enjoy that. Thought of you further do. Let's get into it. My name is Lorraine Baraki. I am a captain in the army and I'm also an OB-GYN physician. I have been powerlifting for six to seven years. My husband, boyfriend at the time in medical school, Austin, I think we all know, was teachinGHimself methods of lifting weights after he finished college. We met in medical school and as he was learning more it just peaked my interest to learn how to move a barbell around so started to get some exposure with that through him essentially. It depends how you define recently. But if we think about this time last year, national's last year since then I have completed my OB-GYN residency after four years and I've also trensitioned into being a staff OB-GYN currently in Fort Polk, Louisiana. It's been marked by pretty significant schedule changes for sure, being on call in the hospital quite frequently. But I actually see it as a positive thing, surprise, surprise. Just because my life has become kind of regimented and either at work or I am leaving work in trening or I am resting recovering, refueling to do it all over again. So it's not a lot going on in Fort Polk, Louisiana. But in your numbers have been pretty well in trening. I have been going pretty well with my bench specifically. My squat and Dudlift have held steady, I would say. I know that I have more room to grow in both of those. I have some kind of waxing and waning low back pain that I've been consistently working through. So that's played a little bit of a role here recently. Well, I have an English choice and a Spanish choice. So great. So just depends. But my English choice would probably have to be that the Anna Blueface Baby, featuring Cardi B. I have no idea if lots of it. Noted wise, a loss for a Cardi B. And then my Spanish choice would probably be Ector Novo, me, and de. That's also my favorite song. My people. My right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Oh, show them. Let's just see. See what happens. See what future me does. Alright, so this is Primetime Day. Three, so first night we were there Friday night. 63 kilo women's classes, Lorraine Baraki, opening squat attempt. Now what they did for Primetime is basically take the top. Seven or eight or something like that. Lifters in each class and put them together so that they would all be on the same platform, competing together, actually made for really nice view and experience. This is the only platform going and you could see her on all of the background videos. So very cool. This is 150 kilos, 331 smokes it. That's what you want your opener to look like. About Rp7 when we say that. It means like easy opener. Alternatively, if you're trying to pick a weight, well, this would usually be something you could do for a comfortable triple. Particularly this weekend, they were being very, very harsh on depth, which is good. That's what you want in a competition at this level. I think they had like 1,300 competitors and so you'd want the judging standard to be very, very high. So anyway, she moves up to 155 kilos. This is 341 in the American. Gives the squat command. You'll notice what she did there should take. She took two breaths and one out of the rack and then one after the squat command. I'd probably wait to take the breath till after the squat command. But no problems here. So she moves on up 160. Again, this is under her best squat. I don't think her trening was actually going to well for this and some of the interview that we had before this actually asked you about that. And it is what it is. And 160 would be a good number for her. So let's look at this one. Gives the squat command. Takes that second breath. Yeah, and she looks like it almost got a little behind her. And it's weird before she actually stopped moving the bar. They took the bar. So theoretically, she could have retaken that weight if she wanted to. But Austin decided to wave it because she'd rather have a bigger deadlift and not fatigue herself on another lift. So moving on the first bench is 97.5, which is a monster bench. So it's 215 smokes. That is her opener. She's one of the heavier ventures in the class. We'll watch it on replay. Comes back off the chest. Very nice, very nice lift, Lorraine. And they were very expedient about getting the weights changed. This meat moved pretty quickly actually. As you can imagine, that a meat with, you know, something like 1300 lifters would have to move in order for it to get done over the course of four or five days. So yeah, now you can see her grip. It's a pretty moderate grip, especially compared to her competitors. And she's very, very strong. So there's one or two and a half, two, 25. The bro way, two plates. Gives the bench command. She sees her ticks up right after that. Long pause. And yes, smokes it. Back off the chest very nicely. Three white lights. All systems go here. And so she's going to go up on her third. We can watch this second again in slow mo. Again, really cool when they did this for the prime time. A meat that the prime time lifters. It's nice to watch again. Right. And then Lorraine on our third bench. This is 105 kilos to 31. Gives the hand off. Now she's going to wait for the bench command. The star command gives the star command. Yeah, she probably had 107.5. But that would have been a hit or miss 105. What up nicely? Very good bench. Believe that's a PR for her. So now she's going to move into the deadlifts. You know, with her subtotal, she's just wanted a 155. And then 105 there. She's a right at 260 kilos for her subtotal. Open it up 165 kilos. 360, three smokes it. See if they give us a little replay for this. And no replay on this one. Uh, okay, moves up to 175. So this is 385 pounds. It's cool. Watch this bowl. Yeah, a little bit off her legs off the bottom. But no problems. Her dad was actually sitting right behind me. Just going crazy. It was really cool to watch. Yeah, she holds her back in a great position. Then gets the bar back on her legs. Smoke is 385 pounds at 63 kilo body weight or 138 pounds. Very impressive to watch now up to 396 again at 138 pounds. Also, she's a doctor, which is awesome. And I think, you know, for my money, she smoked 180 faster than 175. What's the what's the recap? Recampus. They have got your paper. No, no. You've been new and I'm about to get it. How'd the meet go? Me went very well. Are you happy? Obviously. Are you satisfied? I'm satisfied. Oh, man, I was really going to hopefully, that you're going to say no. I could do an Alexander Hamilton reference in there. But IMean, ladies. Perfect. Yeah. Very cool. Well, say goodbye to the YouTube. You just do since Cardi B out. So Lorraine had a pretty solid day. She came in feeling very confident on her bench. Her bench treninGHas been going awesome. Squat and deadlift. We've been making due with her kind of some back aches and pains. They kind of come and go with trening intensity, life stress, sleep stuff that seem to make it flare up. But ended up putting up a 440 kilo total, which is five kilos under her best total. From when she's actually heavier. She has two kilos underweight for this meet. All time meet PR on the bench with a 231 bench, which is pretty good. Very good for that weight class. And Squat did 341 on her second and just miss her third and then pull 397. So I think that our plan moving forward is going to be to get her back symptoms, kind of desensitized. These her back into things, build up her trening volume again. And then I really, IMean, her potential is really high on the squat and deadlift. She's nowhere near her potential there. I think she could probably get up to squatting, you know, 165. She could probably get up to deadlifting. Probably get close to 200. I think is possible in her future. Just has to be a matter of trening, gettinGHer to tolerate enough trening to get there. So that's what we're going to be working towards with her. Sam had the meat of her life. She her prep for this meet we experimented with some different approaches, particularly on her deadlift trening. And things seem to go really well. Easy. Smooth. She hit all time, PR on the squat. All reds on the bar. That's, that's a pretty load all over the chair. Oh my god, she's that was so easy. She's got it 391 or 177.5 kilos, which went up faster than any of us expected. So that was awesome. She benched a meat PR of 107. And a half kilos. So she gets this today. So we actually have to be a pure, half kilo PR from there. Largest. You're the over 100 kilos. Well, if you look at her meat history, then. Nice look. Look at that. We are for Samantha. Nice work. We've been benching 105, 105, 105, but multiple meats trying to get a few more kilos on the bar. So finally got that done. And then she ripped a 226. American record, an official world record deadlift. Here we go. Ladies and gentlemen, we are alive from Lombard, Illinois. 2019, we're on nationals. All the way up, Sam. Come on. Holy crap, Sam just took, let's wait for the white lights. BuT3 white lights have been fogging ahead of us. To seal the deal for all time, PR total, 511 kilos. At about 62.7 kilos body weight. So incredible meat. Really, she has matured a lot as a competitor. Her mindset, her preparation, her just everything about her is come together really well. To be able to perform at this level and repeat as national champion. So we're very proud of her. I'm very, very happy with how the weekend went both Floreen and Sam did a fantastic job. We've had a bunch of other awesome performances from our folks, including Charlie and Leah and lots of other lifters on our team. So we're happy. We'll grab. Charlie Dixon successful on his first 290 kilos. Got calls for depth on his second. So let's see if he can nail this one and get that 307.5. Charlie with his SPD equipment. All the way down. Let's get it. Oh nice. It moved fast. So let's see what the judges have to say about that. He is credited with 307.5 kilos on his third attempt. We have Charlie six in top now. But I just want to. Two hundred five kilos. That was a beautiful. Oh, drives it all the way up. Yes, the worst. Two to one. Anyway, that was an amazing. Yeah, they were super cool. They're watching. They're watching. They're watching. They're watching. IMean, just sticking with it though is. Hey, you got a fight. Got a fight. We're all here because we fight. Charlie three 32 and a half. So Charlie six in with three 32 and a half. So he's also so he makes a look easy. Easy, easy. That is under his best. Oh, however. referees three white lines. That puts him in second place. So that is absolutely amazing. That's probably why they made that call. It was a silver medal winner Charlie Dixon. All right, Saturday morninGHere. Lambert, Illinois, Lea Lutz, Claire, Zai, set to do battle day, Lorraine, Sam, and Charlie all did extremely well last night. So we're just going to walk over to the venue now. Meet Lea for this morning session. Trying to grab some breakfast. Something for my voice. So I've been screaming my face off. And yeah, so they got a day for a barba medicine and all of our athletes. Great part about having breakfast. What we'll be a lot is she will be impressed with your breakfast order because you're the epitome of health. Lea, we're here before you're session. Are you impressed with this order? Oh, I am very impressed. IMean, I'm only really an unobestly amount of cheese. I've got all my butt. You can afford that fat. That's right. But they are egg whites. Yeah. And then I got this. You'll cut oatmeal. Right. And it's got nothing in it. And it's acceptable. Solidarity for those who have to cut away. So my name is Lea Lutz and I am a coach with Barbel Medicine. I also make sure Barbel Medicine runs behind the scenes. So we don't want to forget that. So I've been powerlifting for six and a half years now, I think. I think this is my fifth raw national. Numbers I hope for tomorrow. So a bunch of people asked me this on Instagram. And I wouldn't tell them. Right. But yeah, this is for the tubes. I big goal is I want a fairly sizeable PR total This meet. And I'm excited about that. So I will be really excited if I hit a squat 1575. Bench, 90 or in the back of my mind. I think I could do 90 to five but that may or may not be in the cards. And then I hope for my biggest pull ever in the 170s. I'm Lea Lutz which may lack. So now this is day four in the morning. Lea was in the morning session. Platform five. She was the last flight in the morning session because they were lifted the most weights. That's how they did it. Masters one class opening up 142.5 kilos. This is like 313 pounds. Get to Squaw Command, take your breath. Yep. Move drill quick. So I wanted to put her in a position to take a PR third attempt. So I had to pick 152.5. She got one red light on depth on the side. But sometimes it do be like that. So we were not worried about that. She's never gotten called on depth. Enemy. And so we moved up to 152.5. Planned was for 157. And a half on her third gets the Squaw Command. And obviously you can't tell depth from this angle. But you'll see they actually gave her two red lights from the side on depth. Center judge said it was okay. Which is usually how that goes. So we retook it. Wanted to get this 152.5 kilo on the scoreboard. Gives these Squaw Command again. And to me, it looks like she buried it, you know. And got a little lot of position. It was able to stick it. And then now she's get two red lights. One from the front on depth, which is very odd. But yeah, it's out of our control. Can't control the outcomes here. Only can control the process. So regrouped. So she opens up here. 80 kilos, smoke show, 176 pounds. Not too long ago. She actually had a slap tear repair. Surgical age. She couldn't even bench, you know, the pink dumbbell. So very impressive to see her come back for this. 85 kilos smokes that. It's 176. And now we're going to go up to her third. This would be a meat PR here. 90 kilos, 198 pounds. You can see me creeping in the background. All day. Yeah, 90 kilos was the right call. 92 and a half, you know, it might have been a little too much for the day. And a big celebration. Nice meat PR 90 kilos. All right, moving on to deadlift. So this is 160 kilos, 352 pounds smokes it. No problem. And what we were doing, we're doing a lot of math on sub-tools to see how can we get leonopotium. Top five is podium. Position in the 72 kilo class or in all these classes. And so, head to do a bunch of math and try to figure out like what do we need to pull? And so, I bumped her up to 167 and a half. This is 3, 68 at a 72 kilo body weight, master's one division. And yeah, from here I was like, you know, 170'd be a really easy third, 374, really solid third. But we had to go up more than that. I was thinking maybe 172 and a half would be like a limit third, 175 was going to be pushing it, but that's what we had to call for to get her to get in that number five position to get a metal. So we took it, you know, 172 and a half and 178 was I was 100% sure of 175 created a little bit of drama. So let's watch what she does. 185? Yes. Come on, stick with it. Look at it. Patience, patience. That's that hard part. Is that skin, full-to-right underneath the single it? Lock it back, lock it back. And you can see me leaning back at the background. She gives the white light. She's a good lift. All-time meet PR, 385 pounds, master pull, great job, yeah, great job. Moving on to master's one, 72 kilo class by popular demand. In fifth place, Leah Luce. Hopefully she's still here. A barbell medicine fame, release. These are your master's one, 72 kilo champions. So my name is Claire Zy. I'm a competitive power lifter and a researcher. I was in grad school and one of my friends, I was always a gym rat and one of my friends recognized that I had some competitive numbers and kind of entice me with some records and said I could break them and went out and caught the bug and never stopped. I started Burma Medicine a little over a year ago doing group programming and then I ended up switching to one-on-one programming right after California State Championships, which was abouT3 months ago. And my last meet, I totaled 452 and a half kilos and this meet, my goal is to go 9 for 9 and I don't know, I think at 475 total is my goal for this meet. And welcome to the prime time session for the 72 females and 105 males here at the USA powerlifting raw nationals 2019. So this is a day for prime time session Claire Zy, 72 kilo open class, opening up here 157 and a half kilos 346 again. Notice you had to take two breaths. Always want to take the breath after this guacamole. And yeah, they actually redlighted her on-depth again from the center judge, which is odd, but you know, that happened. So we retook it, really want to get on the board and not to attempt the barbell gods by going up even though she's much much stronger than this, as you can tell by the bar velocity. So basically I told her hey, take your breath after this guacamole, and make sure to bury it and then you'll be, you'll be all good. Now watch what happens when she walks the way out here. So in order to get the guacamole, the two side judges have to drop their arms, basically signifying that you've locked your knees out. And so the side judge you can see in this frame never drops his arm, so they make her re-rack it, clock still running. All right, so you get a minute to take each attempt. So she has to basically do this whole thing again and lock her knees out. I would be interested to know what was going through her mind when this was happening. And this has happened to me before, but you know, you should regroup and go ahead and do it. It gets a squaw command again, really fast reps, very strong lifter. And yeah, she gets two to one. That's a good lift, moving up on the third. So already we were in a kind of a precarious position, based on what we had done in trening. So it went to 165, really wanted to just increase her totals. She buried this one. And again, two to one, that side judge, just not lovinGHer, but we're on the board with her third attempt at 165, 360, eight pounds. So now we want to bench press. This is 97 and half kilos, 215 pounds, 72 kilo body weight, gets a star command. Now notice she's got a much wider grip. Also notice me in the background with no hat, apparently you can't wear a hat when from the coaching platform, buT3 white lights. So all systems go here, moved her up to 105, 231 pounds. And she gets the star command and let's watch the bar velocity on this one. Yeah, so from here, 110 would have been a match her best in the gym and would have been a all-time meat PR. So we went there again, a little more aggressive than we wanted to be just based on what she did on the squat and then just gets out of the groove and the bar went too far back, actually hit the rack. So unfortunately, that's how it went. Didn't make that lift, but still in the mix for this potting position again, top five gets metal. This is the biggest class all weekend long. opens up here, 385 pounds. I actually thought they might troll her with that little movement at the end. I wanted her to kind of hold it and add lock out and be a little bit further behind the bar, but no problem. They gave it to her and it was a good lift. IMoved up to 185, 407 pounds, 72 kilo body weight. Watch her pull this. Yeah, again, good velocity and I had a lot of number crunching to do in the background, actually changed her third deadlift attempt twice. So 185 was good, had to change her third deadlift twice to get her in position to pull for that top five position. And again, largest class all weekend, it's men or women. So she goes to 192.5. This is a 423, I believe. I'll talk to my head originally wanted it 190, but had to bump her up and then bump her up and back down. So originally put in 1951 in her first change, then I did 25 to make the other people take there, third deadlift up. And yeah, she smokes this nice pull. This is for fifth place and her first runational gets the fifth place overall. The open 72 kilo class fifth place, Claireえる as long as the shift has beenığını d on the second leader. Okay, this is the this or that section. This is the this or I got trapped in my own sentence structure. So basically what we did is we asked you guys that gals on Instagram to submit this or that stylEQuestions so that me and Oberaki here can battle it out. The Gentay Montay. How do you think you say that? Vicente Montes-Sac. He asked chicken or beef. I think I eat chicken more often but I probably like beef more. I feel the same way which actually does tails nicely into our upcoming podcast with Alan Flanagan on red meat intake and we cover a bunch of different stuff. Basically red meat intake recommendations, saturated fat, dietary cholesterol, diet and heart hypothesis. We go deep. But yeah, I think if I had to pick one for like tastiness, I'm going to pick the beef. Yeah. In particular, an A5 Wagyu cut. But what I eat more frequently is chicken. All one SS asks safety squat bar or hacksquat. I'm going to pick safe squat bar squat. Same. Yeah. Just because I prefer squatting to doing like a machine-based exercise but that's just me. If you asked me like should somebody do hacksquat or safety squat bar squat, I don't care. Yeah, for what? Yeah. IMean, I think we've covered this just the benefits of like freestanding movements tend to be you do tren your balance on some component and then usually there's more global muscle mass involved but that may not be a concern if it ultimately prevents people from adhering to trening. Yeah. So if thEQuestion is you're using this in a program for somebody who trens like a bar bow athlete and there's squatting on some day of the week and you want to introduce something else on a different day. Same to squat bar versus hacksquat. There's no automatic answer to that that I would give that where I would feel strongly about it if they, you know, if they want, I have actually a few clients who hacksquat in one slot. Yeah. There's a of their week and then others who don't do any kind of machine-based stuff for it. Hacksquat or belt squat. Does the same thing? Yeah. You'd say overwhelming shrug. Yeah. Okay, Natty 24 run a marathon or do a bodybuilding show. A bodybuilding show. IMean, like, I don't like beinGHungry and I don't like shaving. Yeah. Yeah. But I hate, I don't like running long distances that hurt me even more. Yeah. So lesser two evils. I feel like probably if this was like 10 years ago, I probably would have just done the marathon. Just because IMoved the marathon. In sufficient shape to do it. At this point, the amount of trening required to do a marathon would be substantial. Yeah. Versus. There's no specification here as to how well you'd have to do it the bottom. Yeah, you could literally just get up and be completely unremarkable on stage and take that box. Yeah. There's it's true. Yeah. I guess they don't have like a quality control checkpoint. So I just like go up there. It's like a meme of a dude who just this like show how you look and do to got him next to Larry Wheels. Yeah. Yeah. Do you think it's more stuff for the do you think he'd be better bodybuilder or better marathoner? It's hard to judge the competitiveness in something like bodybuilding, of course, just because of the nature of the sport as pose in terms of, you know, who shows up in the subjectiveness of the aesthetic, whatever. IMean, knowing that my endurance background, I was decent at it. I think I'd be decent at marathon, but I think it may take longer than a year to get good enough at it. trensfer all those previous adaptations over that you've likely either lost or tucked away somewhere to another sport. Yeah. I think it'd be a better bodybuilder. Not that I'm like particularly aesthetic. But you know, I'll be trening the arms. No. Yeah. That makes one of them. What do you do for arms? Like not like have them? Pivot block or traditional d-load. This is just labels. Right. Yeah. They're just made up. What does traditional d-load mean? So like, if you're defining that as when people, you know, say, oh, I'm going to only do 70% for like a reduced volume, so reduction in intensity and volume. IMean, that's kind of what a pivot block is. You can make an argument that some iterations of a pivot block actually have less discrepancy in the volume. But the intensity usually is significantly lighter meaning then you're previously doing like heavy sets of five or three or something like that. And now you do a week where you're just doing tens. So the intensity is lighter. The volume may be similar. And the movements tend to be different. I think that's probably the bigger thing in terms of the way people think about these as exercise selection stuff. But these are just words. Like, you know, the words matter. Like, I don't know that there's such things like traditional d-load. Unless you just go by the literal definition of d-load and you just decrease the load. Yeah. That's the only traditional way that I would view it. And, you know, I don't think that there's one that's better than another. It's kind of a depends on what the person needs. So for example, if somebody is complaining of tons of accumulated aches and pains that I think are, you know, the result of a, you know, over accumulation of fatigue or something. Yeah. I'm probably not going to switch them over to a block where I just like switch the exercises. But the reps and keep the intensities that like nine or ten RPEs. Yeah. I'm definitely going to pull back on the load, decrease the load and hence maybe I'd use a traditional d-load in that sense. Especially that. Another situation where somebody is like, maybe feeling fine, but their response to the trening is kind of waning and, or maybe there's some psychological stuff where they're not enjoying the trening is much anymore. And IMight switch them to something where they're doing different movements, different rep ranges that they haven't been exposed to, that they can PR and anything, get excited about trening. Yep. But they can still tolerate high intensities. I don't care for the labels for either of those things is just different ways of altering the trening based on the response. Yeah. Yeah. I think that context, those, those examples that you mentioned are, I feel similarly, like those are good rules of thumb. And then also, when decreased specificity is actually warranted for the particular goal that your program in around and that is important. And I think you can use pivot blocks or pivot weeks more liberally. So, but, you know, for example, if people are going into a powerlifting meat and, you know, you're three weeks out or four weeks out and you're changing trening just a little bit and you need like this lower fatigue week. That's mostly more going to be a traditional d-load that's how I tend to program it. But if I'm separating different blocks that are have similar goals or both developmental blocks or GPP blocks or whatever, I tend to use just a pivot where movements are different. The rep ranges are significantly different. It's kind of like a washout in a way. Or if people aren't going to powerlifting meat, I tend to not use the traditional d-load as much unless they're really geeked out on testing their 1rm. All right, this from Annie Paladino, our friend from Pacific Northwest. Oh, we have, she has a bunch. Okay. Yeah, this is a for some. Uh, now, teen off. Not that. Look, the golf. What was thEQuestion? All right. Star, star, star, star, wars. Uh, I guess I've not seen like enough. Of either to call myself like a trekky or a star wars like person, like, you know, fan. Yeah. So I'm just going to say star wars because I've seen, I've definitely seen more star wars and I think George Lucas did something really interesting that had never been seen before at the time when he came out the original star wars. Yeah, I've seen all the star wars multiple times. So I'm going to go with that. You know what I think star trek is. Not for me. Not for you. Yeah. You have passed. Poor over or espresso. Poor over easy. These espresso is a pre-party. Everyone's like, what's your coffee or what do you mean? I'm like, pour over with an espresso on the side and you get the espresso first because it doesn't take as long a make. Right. And then it's your pre-game. And then you have a made event. I'm going to go espresso. If I could get like a mug of espresso. Perfect. That was not that. I think the the odor and the the tang of it. I really enjoy. Uh, have you ever done like a coffee cup in or tasting course? Oh, my gosh. So they make you like slurp the things. You're like, That's why I don't think I could do it. No, yeah. Yeah. They're like you're aerating your pallets. So you get all these notes. I'm like, I just feel like a fool. Uh, beat your mountains. Um, well, I, yes. I live by the beach. But I also am not far away from mountains. Thank you, California. Yeah. And you pay extra for that. Yeah. To put you into that location. But if I had to pick one of the other, I'm going to pick the beach. Yes. You're up at near a beach. And mountains are there. What we did is that tend to be colder and snow, which I'm not a fan of. Sure. Yeah. Versus more temperate. Stuff by water. Phil James, Paul Sumo or Squat High Bar for the rest of your life. I'd probably just pull Sumo. I don't, I don't particularly dislike high bar. But if I had to pick one of the other, I would probably just pull Sumo because I find that to be more comfortable than I do squattinGHigh bar as my dominant squatting movement. What's your best high bar for like aromasingle and then for reps? I actually don't know that I've ever had high bar single. But I could probably high bar. Like when I was at my strongest low bar, I would be surprised if I could high bar squat in probably in the mid 500s or so. I could probably have high bar 550 or something then. I had to guess. Yeah. But I was low bar in 6.5 then. Yeah. I have high bar 500. No belt. And no knee sleeves. That was my no no no. Yeah. I felt like the my low poster. And then I did 195 for 10. Okay. Just for 30, I think. Rips. Yeah. Just two sets of five really. Yeah. Tim. Doritos or Ruffles. Hmm. Can we get to stipulate the flavor? Because I'm trying to remember what Ruffles are. Those are the ones that... With bridges. No dude. No. Quirk Street. You talk about like bugles. I did enjoy those. Yeah. I thought they look up what Ruffles look like. Ruffles have ridges. And what's their... That's their slogan. Yeah. So they're just like a potato chip with the Ruffles. So look here's if I could pick the flavor. I'm picking Ruffles. A sour cream and onion. Okay. But my favorite potato chip is going to be salt and vinegar and their lays. Salt and vinegar are pretty good. Yeah. But he said Doritos. So they didn't have to be cool or ranch. Yeah. Not the cheddar. No. Those get old too quickly. Another ranch Doritos or sour cream and onion ruffles. I think I'm going to pick the cool ranch. Yeah. Although the correct answer to this question is lays salt and vinegar. Costco hotdog or Ikea meatballs. I don't like... I don't like meatballs. Just either. Yeah. I've never had either. But I don't like meatballs. So I'm going to default to the hotdog. Yeah. I've never had a Costco hotdog. Yeah. And I've been to IKEA once in my life. So. Oh yeah. And then I've just got a score barbell medicine. And you know her? Yeah. I know her. Puerto Rico or Cuba. Like, I wish there was more to this. Like, to visit or like, which, like, for a government do you work for or like. I've been to any career in islands. I've been in Puerto Rico. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'd go back. Yes. Also, I could move there if I live there more than I think it's 40% or 50% of the time. You know, like, qualify as like a Puerto Rican. Like, like, that you live there and get a tax break on that because you're moving a business. So I pick all of that over Cuba. Not that I think there's anything wrong with living in Cuba right now. I just, yeah. I like the amenities. Yeah. Puerto Rico is a great time on them with there. And I also would like to go back. But we haven't had a chance to. And there was the whole hurricane business that decimated there. Yes. Yes. Yeah. That's a thing. That's a problem. Yeah. CNS fatigue or adrenal fatigue. Well, only one of these things actually exists. So, and CNS fatigue really is a misnomer as far as how it's actually stated. You call it central fatigue. Effectively means that the amount of a neural stimulation that is trensmitted, like, little electrical stimulation that's trensmitted to the level of a muscle is decreased. And this is a protective mechanism so that you don't go into the rev zone into the danger zone. That's contrasted to peripheral fatigue. It means there's actually something wrong with the muscle. The nerves are sending the same signal to the muscle, but the muscle goes, not dog, I'm out. Yeah. So, that's a thing. I wouldn't call it CNS fatigue. I would just call it central fatigue. If we had these two brought them, like, big umbrellas, big buckets. Central fatigue peripheral fatigue. Adrenal fatigue is wholly made up. Yes. You can have adrenal insufficiency. Yes. That's a thing. That's a real thing. Yeah. And, like, requires objective signs, symptoms, confirmatory lab testing. That is validating. That's reliable validated and requires, like, medical intervention. People, you know, so... So hopefully, like, for an ing. Yeah. So the adrenal fatigue thing, yeah. You can't just tell people, though, that it doesn't exist. Like, that's the wrong way of going about counseling. That's a good way to, backfire people. You ride exactly. Just like telling people that they're low back pain doesn't exist. Like, don't do that. There's, you know, different ways to counsel this. But, yeah, as far as we know right now, based on evidence, and evidence exists to basically suggest that this is a wholly made up condition. And then treatments for this condition that are, you know, advised arecompletely made up, baseless stuff. Although, you know, the lifestyle stuff I get behind, like, sleep more. Sleep more. Yeah. Make sure to eat a healthy diet, you know, whatever they wanted to find that is. But, going around telling people that have adrenal fatigue, or they're overstressing their adrenals, or whatever. It's like, no, man, that's why they're there. Yeah, literally there to deal with stress. Yeah. Yeah. One of these kind of reductionists are the point of being wrong things. And then the CNS fatigue thing, it always kind of cracks me up because I think about, like, real things that could be labeled as such, the best example being like a post-dictal state after somebody's had a seizure. Oh, yeah. So after people have a real true, like epileptic seizures, they're usually pretty drowsy for a, for a decent amount of time at the doors. And that's called a post-dictal state. I was thinking about that as like true because they're brain just kind of electrically fried. It's literally fried itself. Yes, catatronic states. Yeah. You're just, you know, but, you know, You can chop it with it. They're frying themselves from doing a few sets of squats. It's kind of amazing to me in a sense because you don't collapse. Post-dictal, like you do after a seizure when you're done with it. No, usually not. Usually not. Javan asks, flats versus heels for squats. I don't care. Yeah. IMean, I'd probably like to use a heel chew, but it doesn't matter. But when we go tren in an hour now, I'm going to go squat in Sanities sneakers. Well, I brought my nanos because it's open season. Yeah. So, that's fine. Don't care. Do we mobility drills every workout or never be able to squat again? Is this question a threat from squat you? Yeah. Where do you get your evidence? Yeah. Got you. Shots fire. Uh, if it's more than like 30 minutes of mobility, I'm just saying I'm not willing to sacrifice that much of my life just to squat. Just start entering. There's no need to go do that. Yeah. Yeah. So, 30 minutes is my cut off. Yeah. And that doesn't mean you should do 30 minutes mobility. Like you shouldn't do any mobility. Just when I say doing mobility, just don't do it. Yeah. You can do like dynamic movements that are specific to the task you'd like to gain more range of motion in. Do that. If you want to call that mobility, that's fine. But that's not what other people mean when they say mobility. IMean rock, rock. Or like the stupid warmup stretches. Yeah. Activation drills. Ah. Long sigh. A world without no C-bos or a world without anti-vaxxers. Uh, well, I think the death toll would be better if there were no anti-vaxxers. And I don't mean that these people, like, I'm not aggressive threat on them. I just think that they should change their mind and be open to actual, like, scientific evidence. This is an interesting question. Because I'm wondering, this is basically a question of morbidity or mortality. Yes, correct. Yes. So you would reduce mortality. You would, uh, uh, get save a lot of lives. If there were no anti-vaxxers out there, um, just to be clear, there's no scientific evidence that supports that line of thinking. Yeah. So when people start talking about, well, this person said this. It's like, yeah, that's not based on actual evidence. So, gotcha. Um, but there are those people, these people aren't interested in actually having a discussion on the science. No C-bos, though. IMean, you would argue maybe that thEQuality of life that does. Correct. Yeah. We've less morbidity quality life would likely be improved. Uh, and this is like when I go, I cite a lot of the landscapes. Global burden of disease data and some of the talks that I give and, uh, some of the stuff that I talk about leans on the mortality side where they have like rankings of the top causes of deaf. Worldwide the WHO has their like top risk factors for mortality, like bloodshed, sugar, high blood pressure obesity and activity. Um, and tobacco use are the top five from the WHO. And so, you know, you know, uh, the vaccine topic and immunization and stuff isn't necessarily in that top five. Sure. Um, see the blood say was mortality. Yeah, I think they're just bigger big, big, big targets. And so you could even make an argument that without no C-bos, maybe some people would be less reluctant or have fewer barriers to engage in health promoting activities that they're afraid of doing. And you may be able to round about kind of interesting to think about. Yeah, I think I'll probably take the world without Nasibo's thing myself. Yeah, so you made your point. Yeah. I think I agree with you because initially I was thinking antibiotics or yeah. But I think maybe you end up causing less people to become a hand-tive haxers without the Nasibo's. Yeah. Uh, I think that's it. Yeah. Cool. All right. I'll go lift this or that segment. Dr. Baraki, Dr. Jordan Bygmong. We're going to get back to the lifting. Thanks for watching. I'm Tom Kampotelli and I'm a part of Medicine Coach. ThEQuestion is, uh, how do I come up with the witty captions? And I would assume that you are talking about on my personal Instagram account because, again, I cannot confirm nor deny that I am involved with the Barbel Medicine and Syrian account. But I will say this. Uh, it often comes from the bits of detritus that are bouncing around my head during the day, uh, which through a process of, um, great stupidity, I embellish upon and add a relevant cease to until I have reached a character limit that is too big, and then I'll dial it back a little. Thank you.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #36： Is It Safe To Go Back To The Gym？ [Okgj2QuY8nQ].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Borble Medicine YouTube channel. We bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. Underneath of the doctor Jordan Faggin mom and it has been a while since we've done one of these trening vlogs. This is trening vlog number 36. I don't even remember when the last one was, but we're back in action. We've got a gym, we're showing you how I built that. I'm going to answer one of your questions about going back to the gym now that some gyms are opening again. And then, you know, we're just going to watch me with weights. And hey, if you stay tuned to the end of the video, we're going to show you how to submit your own questions to be answered right here on the YouTube channel. Also, some ways to submit your videos for form checks right here on the bottom of the medicine YouTube channel. So, thanks for tuning in. Let's get to it. In some states, gyms are opening up again. Is it safe to go back? So, this is a very complicated topic. Let's see if we can provide some insight. As you guys all know, coronavirus has dominated the news and has also polarized most folks on this topic. Unfortunately, it's become very political and I'm trying to stay away from that on this YouTube channel. Anytime we've posted something that's controversial in any way, just the comment section, it's all over the place. So let's try to stay out of politics and we'll keep it in the science realm here. So a few thoughts on whether or not it's safe to go back to the gym with a little background that helps you guys realize how I formulated this answer. So shelter in place orders have likely mitigated the severity of the pandemic compared to what we would have experienced with unmitigated spread, although not without heavy costs of its own. This is not a long term solution, which would likely require a vaccine and or new treatments for the disease. So the next step is going to be a gradual easing of restrictions, which has already taken place in some countries like China, Italy and Spain and also in states like Georgia, Tennessee and others. Other states are likely to eventually open up some businesses, which includes gyms, thankfully, over the coming weeks as well. So what do? To start, I think I should make it clear that most, if not all of the health benefits from exercise, including introduction and hard disease, reducing blood pressure, reducing the risk of developing certain types of cancer, reducing the risk of developing depression, can likely be achieved using an at home workout program to the extent that an individual can meet or exceed the current physical activity guidelines. In other words, most folks probably don't need to go to a gym in order to see health improvements from exercise, though there are some who would clearly benefit from additional equipment availability either due to personal preference or needs in order to suit their current fitness levels. Unfortunately, most folks are either sedentary or insufficiently active, meaning that they don't meet the current physical activity guidelines that includes both aerobic and resistance trening components. For perspective, the current data indicates that only about 10 to 20 percent of the global population meets the guideline recommended activity and insufficient activity is responsible for about one and every 10 deaths or over 5 million deaths per year. In other words, not only do we have a coronavirus pandemic, but we also have a physical and activity pandemic that's been going on for a very long time. So ideally, we would use this time when much of the world's population has some extra time and is turning into public health authorities to heavily promote exercise and dietary changes as part of a national health improvement campaign to not only combat COVID-19, but also reduce the global burden of disease due to physical and activity and obesity. Despite the potential efficacy of a home-based exercise program for health outcomes, many will understandably prefer to go to a gym for a variety of different reasons. And they want to know, is it safe? As is the case with most decisions in life, there are risks and benefits that should be considered on an individual basis. So on the one hand, the risks of going to the gym are pretty clear. Your risk of infection from others goes up the more people that you're around. Alternatively, you yourself may be an asymptomatic or prescientomatic carrier of COVID-19 and you could infect others inadvertently, although this risk is difficult to assess. In any case, some steps can be taken to reduce these risks by both you and the gym. From a personal standpoint, you can reduce your risk of infecting others by wearing a mask when you exercise. You can also refer to one that you wash regularly and you get bonus points if you add an additional layer of pantyhose around the outside that actually increases the surface area that protects some particles from entering or leaving. Additionally, you should stay at home if you're currently experiencing symptoms at all, which now includes cough, shortness of breath, fever, chills, headaches, muscle pain, sore throat or a new loss of taste or smell among others. Same goes for if you've been in close contact with someone who has these symptoms, even if they haven't been formally diagnosed with COVID-19. You would also recommend avoiding the gym for now if you're over the age of 50, or if you have medical problems such as high blood pressure, diabetes, harder lung disease or any condition that results in a compromised immune system. Unfortunately, while these individuals would likely stand to benefit the most from regular physical activity, which may be increased, given access to the gym, they are also at the highest risk of a medical complication secondary to COVID-19. Additionally, if you have regular contact with individuals who are over the age of 50 or who do have any of these medical problems, you're probably increasing their risk of a bad outcome from an infection with COVID-19 by being in regular contact with others. So we would recommend probably not going to the gym if that is something that you do. Gims can also reduce the risk of spreading the infection by increasing the amount of clen supplies available to its members, as well as increasing the number of scheduled clenings that happen per day. They should also provide staff with adequate protective equipment, limit the number of patrons allowed at a given time, whether that's 25% of normal occupancy or 50% no one really knows, but limiting the number of people who can be at the gym at one time is likely a way to improve the ability to engage in social distancing while being in the gym. Also spreading equipment for their part so that people can be a separate from each other's probably a good idea. And again, requiring all individuals to wear a mask in order to enter the facility in addition to potentially screening folks who are coming in the gym. If you need to take the temperature or ask if they're symptomatic, all those things would increase the likelihood of picking up somebody who might be infectious and should likely not be able to get into the gym. So while there are certainly some risks and some ways to avoid those risks, it's reasonable in my opinion that younGHealthy individuals that do not have regular contact with their high risk groups and have access to a gym that's stepping up their health policies could probably go to the gym and minimize the amount of risk that they have. But again, there are no free lunches here. As with most things that pertain to this virus, these opinions will almost certainly change when new data becomes available. If you are looking for information on how to exercise at home, we have an article on this on our website. I've linked that in the description below. And if you're just about to get back into the gym after an extended break, I actually put out a little free Template and some guidance on how to do that in our latest newsletter. I've linked that in the description below as well. Maybe we'll do a YouTube video on it if you guys choose that to be a topic that you're interested in. Okay, so look, that's my thoughts on hey, gyms are opening up what do. Let's talk about my trening because you know, the barbell medicine, YouTube channels got to be a little bit about me at least just a little bit. So first off, what happened with the gym? How did I come into this sweet home gym set up? Well, first, I already had this alico bar. I've had it now for almost a decade. It is the competition IPF power lifting bar and I love it. It is my favorite barbell of all time. It's probably outside the budget of most folks. It's way, way expensive. I like the rogue Ohio power bar just fine, particularly the 20 kilo version, the stainless steel version, the Texas power bar is probably my favorite, non-alico bar of all time. But all, either of those would have been fine. I just already had this one so I didn't have to buy something. I did buy weights, the reason why I bought alico weights and not rogue weights because like I had them in stock and they shipped to me within two days. So that was great. That being said, the price point for the rogues make them hard to pass up. If you want calibrated kilo plates, but the like a one-to-do look nice. Also, I ended up borrowing a Texas strength systems combo racks and seemed like every place was sold out of regular rack or even a combo rack. But it's getting the job done so far. So I got, we have 330 kilos worth of weight, which is enough to tren with. I picked up some horse doll mats from tractor supply company and I get people asking in the DMs all the time like, hey, do you actually need a wooden platform to lift on or can I just use horse doll mats? Well, you don't need a platform to lift on, but I will say it is much nicer to lift on. It reduces the reverberations from heavy dead lifts, trust me, and it's just overall feels a little bit better in my opinion. That being said, for the amount of time I think we're going to be spending trening in storage unit or in this case a garage, I was cool with just using the horse doll mats, so that's working just fine. I'm not worried about damaging the concrete because I'm not dropping my dead lifts even though they are reasonably heavy. That's a weird flex, but okay. All right, so with that in mind, let's get into some of my form checks from the lasT3 weeks. I tried to put everything in order for the videos that I had of the lasT3 weeks, so basically all my comp squats, so week one, week two, week three, comp edge, week one, week two, week three, et cetera. Stuff like that so you guys can see the progression and again, this kind of mimics the template that I put together for like how to get back into gym from an extended layoff, maybe due to COVID-19. So first up, all right, this was in the storage unit. I, yeah, the first week I came back. These things felt really heavy in awkward because at this point it had been almosT4 weeks since I had squatted. So this is only 200 kilos. I basically wanted to work up to a set of four in RP7 or five in RP7. So depth looks pretty good. Now I can also see my toes, you especially see the left one here. The toes are coming up on the way up. So it looks like I'm driving my hips back at the bottom. Also, I'm definitely off-centered under this barbell, which I think I fixed on the next week. But again, the goal was work up set of five at RP7. That was it. And so yeah, I got to fix that hip shift. All right, this week two, this is 215 kilos. So yeah, just add 15 kilos. The idea here was to work up to a set of four at RP8 and then do one back off set. The depth looks pretty good there. Bar path looks pretty good. I can't, I'm looking at, I can see my right foot. And yeah, the toes are doing a little bit better job staying on the ground. So I'm not shifting back as much here. That's pretty good. That one, that last trip, was a little bit too far back. So instead of cueinGHip drive or anything, I like to cue leg drive through your straight-up rather than swinging back at all. In any case, this is this third week of this same like get strong again, template. This is 220 kilos, 44. That looks pretty good. First rep was good. Second rep was good. Except for, again, I see my toes coming up. I'm going to work on keeping my knees forward out of the bottom. So I think my thought that I'm going to think about, obviously, is going to be keeping these forward out of the bottom leg drive instead of thinking about driving with my hips. Also included some pause squats. So these are the pause squats, pause at 200 kilos. So the same thing I squatted on day one. Yeah, that'll look just a hair below parallel. I probably want to go a little bit lower. That's fine. Yep. Notice that I'm, for the most part, holding the bottom position like, and I didn't do such a good job on the last one. I was going to try to brag about holding the bottom position like perfectly still rather than going down and up again. That'd be ideal in a pause squat. All right. So this is 200 tank kilos, 464 pounds, 63 pounds for our American friends. Yeah. Good depth. I wish I should have moved these 25 kilo plates so I can see my feet not a great angle. And you can see here, I'm getting one that little, that little bounce out of the bottom for the pause squats. I need to stop doing that. So it's kind of getting rid of the trening effect that I'm looking for. All right. So now we're on a bench. This is 140 kilos. This is all I worked up up to on week one. You can see the inside of the storage unit is excellent. 140 kilos set of five. The idea was again, work to a set of those RP7. This is a 18 or 16 millimeter focal length, which is why everything looks oddly distorted. But yeah. And also this is a trash angle for coaching. So sorry. I just, this is all we had in the storage unit. So that's week 140 kilos for a five. This is week two, one up to 150, two and a half kilos. Not a good pause on that first one. As a decent pause. Yeah. Not a great pause on that third one either. That was okay. Yeah. Barpath looks good. I just am rusty on the on stay and tight on that pause. All right. So it must be missing the third week for my comp bench. But yeah. So this is first week of close grip bench. 150 kilos. So again, I think it was doing up to set of four at seven or something like that or four at eight. Let's get back into things. I should probably try to keep my elbows a little bit closer a little more tuck on a close grip bench. That's what you're going to keep your elbows in a little tighter touch a little lower. All right. So this is the next week. 150 five. It looks pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. Notice the elbows are tucked a little bit more at the bottom. I like that a lot better. And then this is week three for close grip bench. So this is 157.5. Gonna do this for a set of four. Notice there's no clamps on the bar. So if I were to get stuck, I just shimmy the weights off. All right. Pretty good. 157.5. All right. Week one of dead lifts. Look. So I'm not sure what's below the storage unit. So I was like pretty afraid of like goinGHam on poles. But this is only 240. So 528. So I was kind of doing this little tempo descent. Yeah. So obviously none of these look very hard. This angle is not great from coaching perspective. But if you get a video of your client or you from this angle, you can look at the logo on the plates and you can see, hey, am I rolling the bar forward? That's one thing. You can also see where you're looking. And then also make sure that your grip is, you know, even those are like the things. And in addition to what your knees are doing off the floor, those are things you can see from this angle. All right. Week two. This is a 585. 265 kilos. And you can see right at the last instance, I put my shins to the bar. And I just kicked the bar forward just a little bit on that first rep. Second rep, the bar was off my legs. Third rep that was pretty good. I wish I would stop at the top just pause for a second. Fourth rep was way out in front of me and the left side off my legs. It's like I forgot how to lift a little bit. Just get back into the groove. Those are week three of my dead lifts. So this is what 280 kilos, 618. Let's see if I see the a legal logo. Yeah, just kicked it forward just a little bit there. Got it off my legs. Yeah, rep two is better. Although the left side, the underhand side was still off my legs a little bit. Yeah, rep three was better. And rep four. Yes, same thing. So I need to consciously think about getting my hips higher, staying closer to the bar, and keeping the bar on my legs. All right. So this is week one of paused dead lifts. Two count paused dead lifts. So this is 250 kilos. Not a great coaching angle. You can see where I'm pausing. People are like, why don't you pause one inch off the floor? It's like, well, that's not where I lose a lot of my velocity, where I lose a lot of my position that caused me to miss dead lifts. So for me pausing just under the knees, so where I pause. So there's nothing to see there on the 550 is too easy, too light, but just gradually working into things. This is 285. Yeah, that one was forward. Less forward on the second one. Just see how low my hips are. You've got to go up just a little bit when you all lose four. Yes, all of those reps are all over. Not quite dialed over. And last week of mine, two count paused dead lifts. 77.5. Oh yeah, that was great. Notice I'm letting my hips move up before. Yeah, same thing on the second rep. Nice, tugs. Must be the pink socks. The third one was forward. Go figure. I start bragging about myself and then that happens. All right. So look, hey, that those are my lifts from the lasT3 weeks for the most part. I'm going to change my program and just a little bit for the nexT3 weeks. As I kind of work back to my previous level of strength. But hey, thank you so much for watching the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. We'll be bringing modern medicine to strengthening and strengthening to modern medicine. Again, I'm host Dr. Jordan Faganbaum. Look, do you want your questions answered on our YouTube channel? Answer. Yes, post them in the comments below. The one with the most likes will answer on the next one, provided it's, you know, PG13 or family appropriate. Can't just be answered all this weird stuff. And if you want your form reviewed on our YouTube channel, send me a video at media at barbellmedicine.com. Make sure it's 1080p or higher resolution and make sure you're using your phone this way. Landscape. Okay, not portrait. Don't do that. Landscape. And I want your whole body in the set. And don't send me aromasingle. Don't send me aromasingle unless it's like a dollar. But send me a multiple rep set. And we'll review it here if it's good. Make sure you include the weight that you used, your name, et cetera. And yeah, we'll get you on our YouTube channel. And as always, make sure you subscribe to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel to stay up to date on all the latest content. Hit like if you dug the video, share it with your friends. See you guys next time. Later.

=== FILE: Training VLOG #37： Dr. Baraki Deadlifts 720, How to Row, and Strongman Training [L00eUchRUTQ].txt ===

Nico I need a city and return with my trade-in Hey, dude. Dude, what are you doing? Pulling somethinGHeavy today. Oh boy. Are you gonna call your own shot today? Yes. What are you doing? I'm a thing to feel in quite light. If the fear is there, I'm gonna take it. I'm always 7.15. Maybe. I like it. Oh, 5.85. Alright, see now you're gonna 6.75. Yeah. I'm telling you dude, 7.55. 65 now. Well, there's just another plate. Oh, thanks. That's the idea. Oh, cool. Cool. Dude. Pretty good. Okay, once it unsticks from the floor, it feels good. Is 7.75 your best? Yeah. So 7.15. 7.25. IMean, it's just loading. It becomes stupid. Yeah, it's probably 20. Alright, here we go off the rock. 7.120 pound. Yeah, this 15 pound PR. Oh, right, buddy. Yeah, man. Good. Yeah. How do you feel? 15 pound PR. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, man. Good. That's cool, bro. Yeah. How do you feel? 15 pound PR. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, man. 15 pound PR. Yeah. Without slides, even. But I brought it out slide. I brought it out slide. Yeah. Nice job, buddy. Thanks, man. It's still like kind of. Yeah. In a day. Deadlift, brain. Yeah. When was last time you hit a deadlift PR? About a little over a year ago. Oh, man. 15 pounds a year, though, not bad. Shit. At this point. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, can't complain. That's you. Just deadlifted 720 pounds. And now you're back down sets or 495. Yeah. I'm no mathematician. That seems like about 70%. 60%. That's about 70%. Yeah. Wow. Maybe I should be a mathematician. Well, so what's the deal, though? We just had this little stimulus fatigue convo. Yeah. So for the past, I don't know. Three is months or so. I haven't really pulled anything over in our P7. Yeah. I worked up to, I was doing set the five until those the effort required to do five started to get a little too high. And then pulled that back a little bit and started to do in doubles at a seven or a top set and back offs in like the 70 to 75% range. And then that kept going up. Then trensition to singles and pulled. Six, 89 last week for aromasingle that was not, it was probably about an eight, eight and a half. In terms of like single level effort. And so I had a feeling that a PR was coming soon. But yeah, I've definitely not pushed. Push sets to close to failure. IMean like a, you know, a RPE 9 or 10 in months. Yeah. If you keep the velocity higher on your working sets, you can still impart a good stimulus with less fatigue. So that you can do more sets. So it's more stimulus. Yeah. That's the idea. Yeah. And I was mentioninGHow I haven't needed to take a D-load or a back off low stress whatever you want to call it kind of weak in quite a while. Yeah. I think just because the fatigue and stimulus are better, kind of distributed, I guess. Yeah. And you get more cumulative stimulus because you have to take less breaks. Yeah. That's the idea anyway. Yeah. Caviot and Tor, people are different. IMean, it may not work as well for you. It did for me and maybe it works better for you than it works for me. Yeah. IMean, it works forever. That's how they can go. Yeah. It's called a mouser block. A what? A mouser block. How you guys name it? I think it's Paul. Okay. Mouser. He's a strong man who makes this stuff. But this is a piece of equipment. What do you do with it? It's a loadable block, press or carry. So you can put weight in there? Yeah. You can take these off and put weight in there. I'm not going to net root. I'm not going to change weight, but I just want to press it. Pretty fun. Did you press it already? Yeah. Oh. Okay. I do. Yeah. I do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alan for all! Who's a Phil stone? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. the one more all let's go somebody please admire my ninja steps come on Allen come on Allen what a what a how's my form yeah it's great look good and very good low bar who's a felt stone carry what a what RPE Ray that yeah trunks of tricks that was RPE 10 I couldn't go back down yeah I heard that you had a little interesting experience at the airport yeah yeah so checking in and I check my bags with my on-tem tren business debit card and the lady is pointing to the card she says is this she's pointing to on-tem tren she says is this your business do you work with animals or mental health patients and I did not just pause and thought is she trolling me right now maybe she knows I said yeah so I thought my idea I guess kind of both but I said no it's a the name of a gym that I own she said oh I see I saw the untamed and I was trying to put it to her so she doesn't she doesn't see the name I see it but anyways it only to me they go a little barbell barbell barbell medicine really bad thing like when I go get coffee and they see that they take my name from my card and they're like a coffee ready for barbell and it's like come on down no my name mr. medicine mr. medicine mr. medicine please me doctor medicine mr. medicine mr. medicine mr. medicine mr. medicine hey I'm Cassie Neiman I'm a you can wrote to master Rowan instructor and I know you guys are probably already using the Rowan machine for your conditioning so what I'm going to do is give you a few tips to make it a little bit more effective and probably make you feel a little bit better on the machine as you do that number one we're going to look at the damper I'm going to tell you how to set that thing number two where are your feet going to go number three how are you going to sit on the seat and number four we're going to talk just a little bit about the order of operations in the way that the stroke works best number one I want you to take a look at the damper so when you come to sit down on the machine you need to make sure it's set for you and one of those things is making sure there's damper is set in the place where you want it to be set this is not the resistance when it's on a one that doesn't mean it's going to be the easiest when it's on a ten that doesn't mean it's going to be the hardest this is a variable resistance machine which means the resistance it gives you is based on the work you put into the machine this just represents the drag so it's pulling an air when it's at a one it's not pulling in in any air when it's at a ten it's pulling in a bunch of air I would suggest most people start with it between a three and a five that's a good place to start but definitely play around with it but also definitely just look at it before you start throwing it up at a ten doesn't mean you're going to get the most out of your workout number two where are you going to put your feet first of all don't row in your lifting shoes put on some regular old ten of shoes it doesn't matter just nothing with that lifted in the heel and the super rigid sole so when you put your feet in the straps you're going to put it so that the strap is over the widest part of your foot then you're going to pull those straps nice and tight so that straps going to sit over like the bottom of your shoelaces where the the widest part of your foot is and that's going to put your foot in the best position so that you can pick your heels up doesn't mean you need to but you can and it's going to put you in the best position to mechanically apply force to do each stroke number three how to sit on the seat seems really simple but there's actually a few things you can do that might make your whole stroke way better just by adjustinGHow you sit on the seat what i like to do is go ahead and straighten out your legs and reach over try and touch your feet it could be a nice stretch when you first sit on the machine but also it's just kind of a nice segue into picking your butt cheeks up so you're going to actually pick your butt cheeks up to kind of rotate your pelvis into a more neutral position so instead of sitting on the seat like this i'm going to adjust so everything rotates forward this is going to put me in a much better position to hinge from my hips and get more out of every stroke when it comes to rowing what we're trying to do is push through our legs and hang on this handle to produce force to make the machine move right make that flywheel inside push the air so starting up in that catch position which is this front position we're looking for a shin's vertical with the shoulders and front of the hips arms nice and long shoulders down chin up neck nice and long from this position think of using your biggest movers using your legs you're going to drive with the legs then swing the body open then pull the arms in so it's really simple mantra arms come away body comes over legs bend so it's a legs body arms arms body legs a lot of people like to skip that body swing right here and they don't end up in this body over position up at the front at the catch and so then they end up missing a lot of power from the legs as they drive it back so as you get started rowing once you're in that perfect position your feet are in the right place and then dampers in the right place then you just break it down and you row a little slower just for a little while all right and you get that legs body arms arms body legs and that's going to get you a much stronger stroke because when you're in this position you can push through your legs and trensfer that force from the legs through your body into your arms into the machine all right so legs body arms arms body legs thinking about using the legs to drive to get the most out of your stroke and hopefully you'll have a much better time in your conditioning good luck hey dad hey do a man you ready to do this thing well I think we're going to be a little rusty but we'll make it work I'm more optimistic I think we're going to be fresh fresh yeah so this is the difference we've had a six month the six month dealer do you know what about it let it marinate had to probably explain the same things you know it doesn't times differently yeah it's great we'll be right are you more excited about doing this seminar than your 720 pull yesterday you don't have to be I think there are going to be diminishing returns at the high end of how much activity you're doing but if we can get some initial buy-in with a low amount that's fine we'll start there and then we'll see if we can nudge things in the right direction by continuing to work through that behavior change cycle what's keeping you from adding another day of activity what's keeping you from doing an additional session of the rubic activity right what are the pros and cons that play here is it because you work three jobs and you have five kids and you know you have real significant barriers to actually doing this or is it just that you haven't found an activity that you enjoy enough to do that much yet so not only is there no minimum threshold for benefit any amount is better than none but we see what is called a dose response relationship what that means is the higher the dose the higher the response you get with respect to trening volume and health related benefits are our pre-existing ideas about pain and how it works right so if you are still stuck in the old school interpretation of what pain means where pain always means tissue damage right that's going to be more counterproductive you're not going to be able to function as well because anytime you experience any sentiment you're going to be like oh that means something that's happened right so you're pre-existing understanding can be problematic here and that's one of the avenues that we target when we're working with clients and patients we try to provide a lot of this education in a way as to reframe their ideas their beliefs and their understanding about pain and what it means and what they can do about putting them in charge of the situation building up that self-efficacy that they can actually benefit for example we talk about exercise technique we try not to talk about it in a way that unnecessarily makes exercise threatening in other words we don't say you must move this one perfect way otherwise you will develop pain that is unhelpful not only is it unhelpful if potentially harmful if people begin assigning threat value to exercise because you can't control how much threat they assign to it right this is where dead looks for bad for the back squads are bad for the knees comes from not only do people come to believe those but they come to believe that there's so dangerous and so threatening that the risk of doing those outweigh the potential health benefits of doing those things which is not the case right so we want to tilt the scales back again so people can say the benefits of doing these exercises far outweigh the risks in many situations regardless of the fine minute details of how I'm moving whether my knees are an inch forward or an inch back whether my back is a centimeter flex or a centimeter extended particularly if the loads that you're using are reasonable for the person

=== FILE: Training VLOG #40： 5-Weeks Out , Progressive Loading, and a Powerlifter Almost Shoots Par From The [Lr7mSyreumU].txt ===

Music Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fyganbaum. This is trening Vlog 40. We're recapping my trening from five weeks out prior to my meat. In addition, we'll talk about progressive loading, versus progressive overload. And first, we're going to place them golf. If you don't like golf, just skip the next 10 minutes of the video, get to the good stuff that you might like, but if you are in the golf, you're going to see me swing a golf club. We're going to do it. All right. We're out here at Journey Pachenga to vacuillitis my favorite course in San Diego area. That's noT3 pines. Yeah, we're going to place them golf. All right, here at Journey Pachenga started out number one of the par, uh, the four, 476 yards. Pretty straight, although every time it goes off to the right. So if you're trying to go down the left side, get the windman. You got to set it. Absolutely perfect. As requested down the left side, and it will actually start taking off to a right a little bit. This is Leonard, my father, makinGHis debut here. The barbell medicine YouTube channel. Yeah, 26 off the tee into the fan. And I'm not really rolling. It's kind of soggy out here. Got 175, front, 200 to stick, begin into it. Some of take a six-nine. The trouble is left. The bunker, long as dead. Check it out on the front here. But we're in the fairway. All right, we're two over through. This is six, or this is seven. Whatever, two over. Okay, I have a really good plan on it all over. My last round before. Anyway, this is maybe one of the signature holes out here. So this is the mechula. I don't know if you guys can see maybe the fairway down there. This bunker is down the left. You've been flirting with those bunkers. You're dead. We're just going to try to go over the bunker that bar bunker on the right. Go over it. Catch the speed slot. We can't even want to play honestly on that. I think the last time that I caught that speed slot is like 394. Long way. It'd be good. They got. Yep, fighting center. And step in here. Just stop at the top. About 120 yards in. We'll be good luck for the first. We got 137 stick, and back, down, hill, down, wind, wind off the left. What are they saying? Give it your best shot. Look at those goodCheerberg. Two minutes underground at ½t and these walls. This building is a huge difference with 165 total. Six thirds left street. One keymer. Six out of air clearance Berryen, as you can tell. Like I said, it was the overhead level. I was trying to realize what area it's gonna be. And the on board of the truck ya'll be beating for 250 feet. All right. There's the original daddy. All right. Pop. Yes. You bet. I told someone over for nine. I wish I could say the same. Yeah, they have to add a zero to it. At least a drivable par four. So we'll do this whole two and then 18. I think everything is just fine. We're out here together. Chango. That's also three eleven. We're here. I don't want to go over the clock. I think I can carry it all the way there. But I don't think we can do that. Three eleven carry it in. Pretty. It works down. So we're playing nice. We're going to get all the other side of the street. We'll call it golf management. All right. So get it on to the first cut here. But you guys see the stick over there. So see if we can play something. I don't know. Get it close. All right. We're here in 18. It's getting dark. We had it back to even. Getting dark. It is getting dark. We'll win the yellow collar. Yeah. Now we're five over. Hey. Three bogies and a double. Back nine is not looking great. But hey, teen. We are having fun though. Oh yeah. All right. 18. 431 yards. Maybe see that bunker back right. We're trying to go left with that. You can carry it all the way up there. You have like a hundred yards shot in. You fall down, though. I get par. 277. Great. So we're abouT3 ten off the tee. Got a hundred and twenty nine left of stick. And back like a little swell front of it. It's a little downwind. I'm going to hit a gap wedge. Try to fly it. One twenty five just right of the stick. And like I said, get out of here with the car. I think good. Just like that. See that just like that. All right. So pretty good round out there at Pachanga again with my handicap and how difficult that course is. Braking 80 is a great score out there for me. It's really challenging and so is happy to be able to put it together on camera. We'll nervous not going to lie. But yeah, I love golf. It's great to get out there and especially do to play with my dad. Um, ton of fun. I picked it up about two years ago. And I was playing abouT3 to four times a week. Uh, tapered down to once per week. The last few weeks getting ready for this meat. And then now I'm on no golf for the lasT3 weeks prior to the meat. Um, so yeah, we'll get back to it after the meat. And so if you watch that and, uh, you know, yeah, I know I need some work on the swing. Um, work with a coach trying to get a little more shallow, a little more from the inside. And, uh, fix some nasty habits I picked up when I first picked up the game. I'll get about two years ago. But yeah, I can get around a course. Okay. And, uh, if you liked that, let me know in the comments below. Uh, let me know what you want to see next week. Um, for trening this week. Because the time thing. Okay. So trening from five weeks out will get to it just here in the middle of the day. Just here in a second. But first I want to talk about progressive loading versus progressive overload. So in the context of strength trening, I think the central tenet of progressive loading is that you're able to increase the weight on the bar while keeping the rest of the program. All of the other constrents the same. That is the reps scheme, the volume, the rest periods, the range of motion, the exercise, etc. Uh, and including the rate of perceived exertion or what other subjective metric or even objective if you're using a velocity tracker or something. You're able to keep those things the same from work out to work out and increase the weight. That is a demonstrable increase in performance. You're able to progressively load the person. So increase the trening stimulus without necessarily altering the trening stress. The trening stress is about the same. So this is going to require us to go over some definitions. So let's talk about those now. First definition is going to be trening stimulus. These are the nuts and bolts of a program like the exercises, the reps schemes, the rep ranges, the intensity, rest periods, the tempo of the movement or velocity, range of motion, etc. This can also be conceptualized as the external load. The trening stress is the resultant load placed upon the individual based on their current level of fitness and performance potential and everything that goes into that. Like their mood, their trening expectations, nutrition status, fatigue, etc. This can also be classified as the internal load and can be measured by rate of perceived exertion, changes in heart rate, etc. Fitness adaptations are the positive, physiological, and psychological effects of exercise, like strength, hypertrophy, cardiovascular fitness, improved cognitive performance, etc. Fatigue can be conceptualized as the negative, physiological, and psychological effects of exercise. Things like soreness, muscle damage, reduced force production, tiredness, etc. Performance potential is the ratio or balance of fitness adaptations relative to fatigue at any given point in a specific environment for completing a particular task. Thus, trening stimulus produces a given trening stress that is unique to the individual, which subsequently results in both fitness adaptations and fatigue. If, over a given period of time, fatigue is greater than fitness adaptations, performance declines even if fitness adaptations are accruing. They're just beinGHidden or cloaked by fatigue. If fitness adaptations are greater than the resulting fatigue, performance potential can be realized if the environment is correct. Overall, the goal of trening is to develop and realize fitness adaptations over time. So how does this fit in with progressive overload? The principle of progressive overload suggests that the human body must be continually challenged by greater and greater trening stimuli over time in order to drive fitness adaptations. If taking at face value, I would pretty much agree with that. Though I think in practice, this gets misunderstood and misapplied, because really the adaptation rate determines the rate at which the trening stimulIMust increase. Rather than the increase in trening stimuli determining the adaptation rate. In other words, applying the right dose of trening stimulus based on individual's goals, their current fitness and performance levels, the environment and so on, is of primary importance. If the increase in trening stimulus occurs too quickly, we're likely to also get too much fatigue on board, which reduces performance potential, can increase injury risk and may not actually lead to greater fitness adaptations anyway. Similarly, if we increase the trening stimulus too slowly, the rate of fitness adaptation accrual will be decreased. In both cases, if the trening stimulus is not matched to the individual's current fitness and performance potential, they're unlikely to get the best results. That can also work in reverse, that in order to get the best results, the trening stimulus must be matched to the individual's current fitness and performance potential. In other words, the person's adaptation rate, which is reflected at any given point by their performance potential, should determine the trening stimulus for the day. Because we have tools that allow us to determine an individual's performance potential on a given day, things like RPE, Reps and Reserve, Barvelocity, we're able to tailor the trening stimulus on every trening session for every movement in order to get the right dose. If fitness adaptations have accrued relative to fatigue, then an individual will be able to add something like weight, reps, reduced rest periods, something like that, while keeping the rest of the program the same. In other words, trening stimulus has gone up while trening stress has stayed about the same. So RPE has stayed the same, heart rate change has stayed the same, barvelocity has stayed the same. Again, the performance potential should determine the appropriate trening stimulus on a given day. So what does this look like in practice? On the left, you have me squatting 600 pounds on the right, you have me squatting 6006, there are one week apart. The barvelocity is the same. I'm still doing the same reps, came it's aromasingle rep. The RPE was about the same. I rated them both at about RPE 8 7 1.5 something like that. And so effectively, this is a demonstrable increase in performance potential that has then determined the trening stimulus, the load on the bar. Because everything else about the program is static. If I had had an even greater increase in performance potential, I'd add even more weight to the bar. If I would have a decrease in performance potential, I'd have to take weight off the bar. And if my performance potential didn't increase at all, I would have to repeat the weight. And that's fine. Again, it is the performance potential, which is a proxy for the adaptation rate that determines the appropriate trening stimulus. Not the trening stimulus and increase in trening stimulus determining the adaptation rate. Alright, last example is going to be my deadlift here. So we have 705 on the left, 7 17 on the right, doing them both for aromasingle. They should be about RPE 8 and we'll look at the barvelocity. They're about the same. If not, maybe a little faster on the 7 17. Again, this represents a demonstrable increase in performance potential, which is then determined the trening stimulus. So why do it this way versus just adding weight to the bar indiscriminately or changing weight on the bar or changing rep schemes indiscriminately? And by indiscriminately, IMean irrespective of what the RPE is, what the RIR is, what the velocity of the barvelocity is. Well, the point is that if you are generating too much fatigue out of proportion to the fitness adaptations on board, then the reality is you're trying to maximize performance on a given trening session. And for most trening sessions, particularly ones that are far away from a competition, a test, a need. You're really trying to just generate as many fitness adaptations as possible over time without generating too much fatigue. If you're generating all this fatigue, just so you can have the max performance on aromasingle session, but that session wasn't really that important, that's kind of a waste. And so I think that most of your sessions should be sub-maximal, should be not too fatiguing, and you can only go to the well so many times before it goes dry. You'll see an example of me going to the well and overshooting and trying to force weight on the bar. And I think that's appropriate when you're getting ready for a test or a meat, and you can only do it for a short period of time because again, the fatigue cost is very, very high. The meat coming up though, I'm willing to kind of do that in some settings, not obviously all of my lifts that would not work, even though I'm getting really close to the meat, but here and there, I'm okay with making that compromise. But if I was 16 weeks out, 20 weeks out or had no meat on the schedule, I wouldn't do that at all because again, all I'm doing is trying to maximize the performance of aromasingle session with, you know, disregard to other upcoming sessions or past sessions. Again, the fatigue that I'm going to generate is just out of proportion to the potential fitness adaptations. Again, the take home from this is that your adaptation rate, and we can use a proxy performance potential to determine that, is what's going to determine the change in trening stimulus, not the increase or change in trening stimulus determining the adaptation rate. So hopefully that makes more sense from what progressive loading is, and I think where people get off track is when they hear the term overload, they're like, oh, I have to do more. It has to overload the body. Really, it all has to do is stress the body enough to drive the fitness adaptations that you want. And principally, it can't drive too much fatigue because if it does, then you're not going to realize those fitness adaptations anyway. So maybe we should just call it progressive loading and get over this whole progressive overload thing. I don't know. Let me know what you guys think in the comments. I'll talk about it more. We do have a podcast on this and I've linked that in the description below. Maybe we'll write a long form article on this if you guys want. Let me know here thoughts. Finally, let's get into some trening from last week, again, five weeks out, and I'll be interested to hear what you guys think about next week's vlog with the trening from four weeks out. It gets a little dice in there. All right, so this is day one starting off again. It's a score up or so this is 275 kilos or 606. I'm going to do this for aromasingle. I had done 600 of the week before pretty happy with how that move that might be last warm up. This is just a back offset. This is to 20 kilos, so 484. I did a couple sets of five with this. I'm just trying to get some volume in and make sure to keep the velocity of the barbell pretty high. I don't want to do anything super fatiguing, but I wanted to get enough volume in to sort of drive or at least support this fitness adaptations that I'm trying to get, which is strength development. On the bench, this is 185 kilos, 407. That was okay. I think the pause needs to be a little bit longer. Did my back offset here with 352. But this point of my trening, my bench still was not feeling great, just relative to my normal, but still got to go to the meat. On the trap bar deadlift, I went up by 10 kilos, so this is 550. I did two sets of eight here and yeah, you know what I don't like about the trap bar deadlift. I don't like, well, I don't like when a person walks right in front of me will undead lifting, but that's not either here nor there. It just feels kind of like a weird snatch grip deadlift to me, but anyway. Pennlight Rose went up 10 kilos here, did 308, the previous week, this is 330, did three sets of five here. I already had these like RPE6, RPE7. So this is day two starting off with a 280 kilos, 606, instead of deficit poles, these are two inch deficits. Notice the bar coming off my legs. That's one of the challenges here. That third rep was better. The second rep was kind of loopy. See how we doing the fourth rep. Yeah, not bad. Yeah, I read it at that in eight, the plates are all fallen off on the left side, even with the collar, it's like a collar failure anyway. Second exercise, feet up bench press, and this is really just trying to get you to set your arch and maintain it, even without a lot of leg drive. I think some people get a little overzealous with the leg drive and they can get their butt coming off the bench. So this is what to 281. Yeah, that's fine. And then close grip floor press. I, you can do these either way, you can pause them if you want. If you're able to pause your elbows on the floor, just really depends. I find that I don't really notice a difference in the weight that I'm using, just my elbows seem to prefer like a brief pause. You can also do with your feet off the ground or like I have them there. I don't really feel strongly either way. Some people do with their legs laying flat, but I don't think it matters. This is day three, 717 on the deadlift. I already showed you guys that it moved very similarly to 705 a week before, pretty happy with that. All right, back offsets to 90, so it's 638. Yeah, I can even tell from here that I'm keeping the bar on my legs pretty well. You can see my kind of shorts coming up. I should probably hold that lock out a little bit longer, just wait for the crowds of ploughs. Did two sets of four here after the single, yeah, I'm fine with that. Basically, I pull my top single without straps and then my back offsets with straps, keep my hands nice and fresh. At least try to, especially since I tore my hand up, pin bench. That was 187.5. And back offsets I did is at 167.5, which is 360.8. So yeah, I just like to stay tight when I get down on the pins, especially some of the, you know, the bar wants to like bounce and move all the way around. So if you squeeze the life out of it, it's a pretty good way to do it. J.M. Press, again, with chains. Yeah, so basically I try to like bring the bar down like a bench press and then kind of roll it over my face, kind of like a skull pressure. I think it's a good way to think about it. It's really, you know, anytime you can feel the triceps, what would the elbows feel like that's going to be good for me and my bench press, which has been trening up, which will see in subsequent vlogs. But this vlog was, my bench was still not feeling great. So this is 230 kilos, 507 high bar squat. It's kind of high bar for me, for sure. Basically, my Q on high bar is push my knees forward further than I want them to go right off the bat. So knees go further forward and try to push my hips forward on the way up. But anyway, I rate it that in eight. I posted a five and eight. I did that. Took some weight off. Did one more set of five. All right, on the close grip bench, this is 165 kilos, 3603. So yeah, switch to a pause bench this following week, not here. And then also, I think I'm bringing the bar down a little too low. I don't really like my wrist angle here. I would like to keep my elbows in tucked in a little bit more, but not unhappy with that. Rated that five reps at RP eight did some dips added 45 pounds. My body weights like 210 to 11 right now. And I rated these RP six. I ended up doing four sets of 10 here. Again, try to get the triceps involved. Lean forward, push my chest forward. And finished up with some RDS did these at 190. And then I'm really tired at this point of the week and the trening week. Five to six exercise per day. Big things on the RDL. Again, I think don't try to do him stiff leg, they're not stiff leg and dead lifts. Trace the barbell down your leg, feel the steel on your legs. Squeeze your back as tight as possible, and squeeze your butt at the top. And profit. That's how you do RDLs. I like takinGHim down just below the knee, a couple inches below the knee. That's my preferred way to do RDLs. All right, that's a wrap on trening vlog 40, five weeks out. Let me know what you want to see next week. When we do trening vlog 41, four weeks out. Again, trening gets a little dicey there, so excited to show you that. But things are rolling, we're getting closer to the meat. And I'm getting excited. So thanks for following me alonGHere. And let me know what you want to see in the comments below. See you guys. Thank you.

=== FILE: Training VLOG 38： 7 Weeks Out [HiG2hsoNZA8].txt ===

Music Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagamon. This is trening vlog 38. That's right. We're back with a trening vlog. I figured it would be a good time to chronicle my preparation for this upcoming meet. It's the 12th of November. So I'm about five and a half weeks out now. This week is the sixth week out. Last week, which is what we'll review here. I was seven weeks out and I'm just going to release videos every week, chronoclen the previous week and we'll go through the meet, go to the meet together and then, you know, recap, after it's done. So pretty excited. It is the USPA Desert Wars meet is just outside of LA. In the middle of November to answer somEQuestions. I am going to be entering the 100 kilo raw class. I usually weigh between 95 or 93 to 95 kilos so to a five to two ten and I'm going to weigh the same. I like this weight. I feel like I'm pretty stronGHere. I have no desire to really get any bigger and I feel like I can lift what I want to lift at this body weight. So I'm not going to cut any weight to go down to the 90 kilo or 198 pound weight class. I'll just hang out here, walk into the meet and go lift some weights. So it's the open division. So you can use knee sleeves. You can use about wrist wraps, but no knee wraps. And the idea here is I'd like to beat my best total. My previous best total was in 2014 with knee wraps. It was 1795 pounds or 815 kilos. I squatted 640. I benched 430 pounds, which is 195 kilos. And then I deadlifted 725 pounds or approximately 330 kilos. So trening actually has been going pretty well. My squat. I was able to beat my all-time best squat PR of 640 pounds. I did that in knee wraps and this time I did it in sleeves. I actually chipped it. So it was 291 kilos, 641 pounds. So that was great. Right, yeah, cool. My bench press has been doing okay. I've been playing a lot of golf recently three to four times a week. And I feel like that's been just generating a lot of upper body fatigue which has kind of been holding my bench press back. So I'm cutting down my golf to once a week until I'm like two or three weeks out from the meat and then I'll just cut golf out. I know like golf is not that stressful that's true. But yeah, as far as upper body fatigue, I probably don't need any extra fatigue compared to all the trening I'm doing now. Really excited for next week's trening vlog where you get to see what I'm doing this week. Because it's a substantial departure for what from what I normally do leading into a meat. And I'm pretty excited about it. So I think I think things are going to go well. So in any case, my best bench, I think for the the previous block was 187.5 kilos or four eleven. I did that for three singles on that day. And that's a fine place to be going into this final meat prep. And then my deadlift, the first week I switched to a deadlift bar, which does have a little bit of a learning curve. I was able to lift 715 pounds. It's pretty easy single. So a goals for the meat. I just want to beat my best total. 815 kilos. It was my previous best total of 1795 pounds. I'd like to total somewhere in the 84850 range kilos. And then I'd like that's, you know, somewhere in the 1850-ish pounds. I'd like to squat about 295 kilos. That's my goal. So 650 pounds. If I can beat or meet my best bench press in the gym, which is 200 kilos, 440, that'd be fine. I'd beat my best meat bench press. And time I best gym bench press. I just don't feel like there's a ton of upside in my bench press right now. Like 202 is not going to make really a huge difference. And the idea is to maximize total, take what's there, build the best total you can. That's, that's why I'm going to the meat. And then I'd like to pull 340 kilos, which is 748. I've pulled 738 in the gym before. My best meat deadlift is 727. 725. So yeah, we'll see if that's there. If I can hit my numbers, I'm going to be super excited. But like I said, we'll take what's there. See how trening goes. And excited for you guys to take this trip with me. Now, this trening vlog is going to be a little bit different than previous trening vlogs. What we used to do, what I used to do is takEQuestions that you would submit and answer them. You know, there'd be a whole list of citations and a bunch of science going on. We're doing a lot of thesEQ&A, you know, releases as you've seen on our YouTube channel. So we're doing a lot of the science stuff. And I think that's great. Time to place for that. So let's keep the scientific questions and scientific review stuff kind of separate from this more lifestyle stuff, the trening vlogs. And so what I'd like to do is make the trening vlog a little more personal. I want to show you guys like this week. We're going to go over what's in my gym bag. What I take to the gym every time I go tren. Provided I don't lose my gym bag or forget it in one of my vehicles in the other car. So that'll be this week. I'd love to hear what you want to see on next week's trening vlog. So leave a comment below. Otherwise, you know, you're going to see how IMake coffee or see what's in the bag for my, that I go golfing with, you know, see what kind of clubs I'm playing with or something. Whatever you want to see, we'll see if we can accommodate that. But it more lifestyle personal stuff. And then we'll keep thEQ&A drip and sciencEQuestions kind of as their own things so that way people can search them and I access them easily rather than them being like buried in a 20 minute trening vlog. So yeah, excited to see what you what you come up with. All right, so now let's see what's in my gym bag. Hopefully no surprises. All right. This is my gym bag. It is from Lulu Lemon. I actually don't know the name of the bag. I just know that it's big and it keeps all my stuff in it. So we're just going to crack her open. Yes, he would's in there. So first up, these are the re-box legacy liftor twos. I do change out my shoes quite often, just a new color way or style or interesting design comes out. I do really like these shoes. I've had the Nike Romalayos ones, twos, threes, leather edition. All that stuff I've had the re-box legacy liftor ones. I've had no bulls. I've had a D-dice power perfect twos and threes and adi powers, like all of them. Right. These are my favorite shoes so far. I think they're they're most similar to the Nike Romalayos twos as far as support in the heel cup and the heel elevation but they're lighter. And I like that. They're not perfect. I did the little tab when you pull across with the pull it real tight. I ripped some of the leather off but otherwise I've had these shoes now for almost a year maybe a little bit longer. And yeah, they're going strong. I actually have a brand new pair of the, uh, what if they're the ante, altar? I don't know. I forget the name of them. The weight lifting shoes that IMay switch to next just to try them out. But so far these are my favorites. I don't think these are adding any weight to my, to my lifts. I'm outside of using a different type of shoe but these are what I'm lifting with. Straps. So these are wrists straps. I got these from Rogue. I used to have the iron mines so easy, the short wraps. And they were one piece, uh, like sewn together. You can see that these like slide like this. They were actually kind of fixed so there was no like stitching there for to break. Um, but these are fine too. They're nylon. So when you're using these, you're going to want to use a little bit of chalk too. Um, particularly if your hands are sweating or there's not chalk already on the implement. I actually don't know how long these are, but there's one version that's longer than them. Um, I tried to use these on an axle and they're not long enough to use on an axle comfortably anyway. Uh, but I tried to use them in a strong man meat and they were barely long enough for me to use. It worked. I still won the deadlift event. There's a strong man video. If you want to see me do strong man, but uh, these are fine. I don't really like the leather straps in general. They don't feel awesome. They don't smell awesome after a while, but again, my preference would be the iron mine. So easy, uh, wrists, uh, wrist straps, but I lost them. If you if you have them, if you stole them from me, uh, I'll take it back. Uh, right, uh, these are wrist wraps. These are the SBD1 meter, uh, believe they call them firm or stiff that, as far as, uh, yeah, top how stiff they are. Uh, I got these back in 2014. So I know that that was like the first year the SBD came out and, um, they made great products. I liked them. They were like an innolvator in the field, because they were the only ones making a left and a right wrist wrap, uh, that was IPF and USAP all approved at the time. Tighten only makes like left sided ones, and I'm like, why can't you just make the left and right wrist wraps? But, um, I really like these. And, uh, yeah, I've had since 2014. I see no reason upgrade the Velcro still holding out holding, uh, well, um, I guess if they come out with another color way that I want, maybe I'll get them or if Pete, if you're watching this, if you want to hook me up with some of the latest SBD gear, that, hey, that'd be great. Uh, right, have a little chalk. This is actually just like a little climbers chalk. I keep it in here in case I go to a gym that doesn't have chalk, um, which is rare, but, you know, find it. I don't love climbers chalk. It's not, I prefer the loose chalk. Um, I don't have a favorite type of chalk other than in fact, it's loose and I can like, you know, rub it on my hands, um, versus like powdering it, but, uh, this will work in a pinch and it's less messy and doesn't get all of my gym bag. So, you need some chalk. Uh, knee sleeves. These are also from SBD. These are the eclipse. These are the black ones. I turn them inside out because, uh, that's how I take them off. Um, these need to be washed. Uh, you guys can't smell this. They don't smell terrible, but these, uh, have been, uh, out of the wash for a couple months now and, uh, they, they're, they're, they're neat. Now, I just put these in my washing machine and I dry them to and I've noticed no decrement over time. I've had a bunch of these pairs of knee, uh, knee sleeves and they're fine. Austin, uh, believe sometimes puts them in a shower. I don't know. And I've heard other people put them in the dishwasher like whatever, whatever you like, just make sure you wash them from time to time. These are, yeah, now a lot better out. I'll probably upload a wash. All right. In other old school stuff, I've got a slingshot. This is one of the original slingshot. This is from like 2015. Um, it's an extra large, um, about 200 or five pounds, 210 pounds, five foot, 10 and a half. And, uh, this is one I use. My best bench is 440. Um, interestingly with the slingshot, I've never actually benched more than my best touching go bench press. I've been able to handle more for reps and definitely on days where I wasn't quite as strong. I've been able to use more weight. Do some overload stuff and definitely does take, uh, some tension and pressure off the chest and shoulders at the, you know, bottom end of the range of motion. But I've never actually like been able to bench like 450 or 60 or anything like that in this. I just use it as a trening tool. Um, and yeah, so, is it my best single on a regular bench press is apparently quite well developed. And I really haven't done a lot of singles in a slingshot. It's not really how I tren with the slingshot. Uh, another pair of knee sleeves. I don't know why I have a second pair in here other than I just forgot to take them out. But these blue ones, um, also probably need to be washed. Uh, they go well with our singlets. We found a bunch of singlets when we were moving warehouses. So we have SBD singlets, um, that are brand-out barbell medicine, um, over on a website. There's a link in the description below. If you guys are having a meet, they are approved for all federations. Uh, and our logo is too. And, uh, yeah, if you want to rep us at a meet, get one of our singlets. Uh, this belt is a best belt's prime cut 13 millimeters thick single prong. I've had this belt since 2012, uh, and the meet first meet I used this in. I weighed in 178.6 pounds. The center on this used at the sticker. Yeah, the center on this was cut on 29 and a half inches. And I'm still using the same belt even though my waist is now 31 inches. I think something like that when IMeasured it last on camera for how to measure your waist video and article. Um, so yeah, this belt is fine. When I tell people to get belts, I just have get a 4 inch wide 13 millimeter thick belt. If you want to lever belt, that's fine. I don't particularly like lever belts. Um, single prong is what I prefer. I don't see an advantage to a double prong, other than it's kind of a little bit more difficult to latch in. But if that's your preference, I won't argue with you about it. You can live a full and complete life with one prong, two prongs, no prongs. Do your thing. I don't like Velcro belts outside of maybe a Olympic weight lifting, but even that I would prefer one of the old leather thinner belts with the single prong. But yeah, people you have used Velcro belts and success with success. I just for powerlifting. I've busted a lever lever belt and I've definitely seen belts come on done, uh, that are Velcro in squats and that seems concerning. Okay. What else we got in here? I got a pair of bands. Um, sometimes I do banded work. Um, and I just want to pair of bands that are matched meaning like they're the same level of like stretched outness. There's a technical term for that, but it is eluding me right now. So I just have a pair of mini bands. I use mini bands on pretty much everything. Um, if I'm using, if I'm doing banded work. So squats against bands, um, deadlift against bands. I pretty much always use these. Sometimes I'll use micro minis on the bench press. Um, but the idea is you would have like about 20% of your one rep max in accommodating resistance, whether that's chains, bands, et cetera. And, uh, these depending on how you anchor them if they're doubled up, single up. Uh, yeah, you're getting about that. And again, I just don't want one side of the bar to be like, wow, that's way harder and the other one's way easier because one band people use to stretch with all the time and the other band has been sitting there. So I just have my own carry them around pretty pretty portable. What else isn't here? I got another pair of wrist traps. There's same SPD ones. These are actually new. Um, I thought I lost my old pair and I was so bummed about it, but then I found them. It's a recurring theme. I think I lose something and then have to replace it. But yeah, these are brand new. I just never use them because I just like my old ones. If the Velcro starts to fail, at least I got to pair them back up. Um, these were given to me as a gift. These are SPD wrist traps. These are the smaller, like, flexible ones. If I had to do like front squads or Olympic weight lifting or something like that, I'd probably use these. Um, a little bit more flexibility rather than a full cast around the wrist. But since I don't do those, I don't ever use these. What else? Shh. I have some pink athletic tape that I use if I tear my hand open or otherwise need to cover something on my hand. Um, so use that. This is just K tape. Can you see a tape? Um, I just find it as a little more flexible and it's kind of sticks to the hand a little bit better than like regular white athletic tape. But you may have a different preference. What else? Oh, it looks like a baby powder thing when often here because I think that's exactly what happened. But I believe I threw that away. There's nothing in that one. All right, what do I have over here? AirPods. These are what I use. They stick in my ears at maximum attempts. They are noise canceling. They're fine. I've had beats that've had the regular AirPods. I've had the, what was it like fly wire or something like that? Some other brand. They're all fine, right? But these are just convenient. I use them when I'm lifting, when I'm working, um, when I'm on a plane, whatever, and pretty versatile. So I keep these in the bag. Nothing else in there. Just curious like did I leave anything in here? Oh, I got some smelling salt. Yeah, cool. I don't have to buy this for the meat. So I only use smelling salt at a meat on 30th. I don't use it in the gym. Even under testing situations, I just find like I want to keep that in the meat for the meat for 30th times where it really, really matters. It just really doesn't matter in the gym. Not to say that, you know, PRs in the gym are important, but it's like, you know, the money's online, the win is online. I just want to have that little extra, you know, final gear to shift into. That said, if you've never used it before and you want to like see if you like it or not, you can use it the gym. That's fine. Um, I just don't use it for everything all the time. Otherwise, you know, where is that next level you can take things to? I think that's it. So that's what's in my gym bag. Hopefully you found some of that interesting. Oh, oh, yeah. The final thing I bring to the gym is this camera. This is definitely overkill. This is a Sony A7R4. I have another camera that I'm filming. This thing on this YouTube video on, but yeah, this is what I take to the gym. Sony A7R4. It's got a size 50 millimeter 1.4 lens on there. That's what makes me look half way presentable. When I'm lifting weights, got a road video mic pro mic on there and then this is a newer tripod. And it like extends and whatever. All right. So now let's take a look at this past week's trening, again, a seven weeks out last week, six weeks out this week. So last week was actually a D load week. It was my first D load week in about 20 weeks. So the previous mesocycle is actually very productive. And so before we kind of dive into the lifts, I actually did just a brief word on D load weeks. I don't think that we should be taking D load weeks on a regularly scheduled basis. Unless there's like a firm concrete, not arbitrary date that you need to peak for a meet a test competition, something like that, and need to trensition your trening before that to prepare adequately for that test meeting. If it's a pilot meeting, you're doing more singles, you're specializing the trening to the movements that you're going to be tested on, stuff like that. If you don't have to do that, or if your test is kind of flexible, meaning that you could go test your lifts in the gym whenever you want to, I don't think that you need to plan D loads. If your trening is working for you right now, you're highly motivated for what you're doing, like carry on until proven otherwise. On the other hand, there are two basic categories that like would prompt me to give somebody a D load one is psychological and one is physiological. So psychological, if somebody is bored, they are not motivated, or they are otherwise like having compromised adherence or really stagnant with respect to their attitudes towards trening. Hey, let's change trening up and two trensition into that next block. Let's do a D load week. On the physiology side, I'm thinking more like persistent soreness fatigue, maybe an injury, or pain that thing that's kind of crept up and we need to trensition anyways into something that more meets the person where they're at. But the idea is that if your programming regularly requires D loads like every fourth week, I don't know that the thing is programmed very well. A lot of our templates do have regularly programmed D load weeks. But the idea is that we're trying to build a template for the general population and on average, most mesocycles that are well programmed are going to last somewhere between four to eight weeks depending on the goal and the population that you're applying the trening to. But like I said, my previous mesocycle lasted 20 weeks. And again, the only reason we kept running it with just small tweaks here and there to maybe movements and maybe total Trening stress, yeah, it just kept working. So if your trening is working and you're motivated and you're not having this persistent fatigue or soreness or anything else that's compromising your trening, like carry on. That would be my recommendation. Okay, so with that out of the way, what are the goals of A D load week? What you'd like to do is to prepare the individual or that lifter for the next trening block, whether there's new movements, new rep schemes, stuff like that. That's a good place to kind of introduce those things. So that way they can hit the ground running. Another thing that is pretty consistent across all different types or styles of D load weeks is to reduce the amount of fatigue that the individual is carrying so they can be more fresh leading into the next trening block. And so what you're going to see is a reduction in trening stress, trening stress being the trening intensity. So how heavy it is, the trening volume, you're going to see market reductions and usually both of those things. And though the reduction in sort of trening stress typically leads to a reduction in trening load, which leads to a decrease in fatigue. Now the thing is if you just did nothing, no trening at all. The problem with it isn't that you wouldn't dissipate fatigue. You certainly would. The problem is that you're also decaying a lot of the fitness adaptations or reducing a lot of the fitness adaptations that you previously built over your previous trening block or blocks. And so you'd like to preserve those to the best of your ability. So we're talking about things like strength. We're talking about things like power, things like lean body mass, cardiovascular risk perifitness of those power and strength probably are the ones most likely to decay without any sort of trening because of the skill component there. Meaning that you're unlikely to after-feed significantly, even if you don't tren for a week, provided you're eating enough protein and not, you know, confined to bed rest or ill, same thing with cardiovascular fitness. But you can definitely get weaker, noticeably weaker in a week if you're not doing any sort of trening, just because of the high skill nature of resistance trening, particularly maximal force production at low velocities or like power lifting. Same thing, a little bit with a Olympic weightlifting or power sort of exercises like that that do have a high skill component. So in this context, in a D-load week, you'd like to give people a little bit of strength work to maintain their strength, right? Make sure they get a pretty decent pump, get some blood flow, and overall lower trening stress so that they can be less fatigue for the next trening block. And that's what we're going to see this week in my D-load week. All right, so this is a day one, pretty much every trening day. There's a bench, there's a squat and then some sort of pull or row. So this one's supposed to work up to a set of 10 at 8, believe this is 320. Again, I guess that my bench hasn't been feeling great and I believe I did this on Tuesday because I played golf on Monday because it was D-load week and, you know, no, this is on Monday and I played golf on Sunday. Anyway, 320 for 10, pretty decent. Then IMoved on to deadlifts. This is supposed to do 70% for 1 set of 4. I think this is 535, which is about 70%. And yeah, this is fine. I probably should have used callers. That's how lazy I am. And yeah, no surprises there. And then finally finished off with this high row. Now I was supposed to do pull downs, but the gym that I used to go to was sell it has sold nearly all of its equipment or at least a good chunk of it. So this is as close as I could get. I could have done 10ly rows. It could have done lever rows or dumbbell rows, but I thought hey, like a lap pull down. It's kind of vertical. It's used machine. It's low or supposed to be lower fatigue. I can do this with this high hammer rope. So this is day two. First time using a squat bar. So that's kind of funky. This is 515 because the bar is 25 kilos. And again, I'm supposed to do a set of 5 at 8. And based on the velocity of the first rep and the second rep I'm like, oh, easy day. And I think honestly, again, the d-load mentality just kind of gets in your brain or like, nah, I'm going to mail it in. So I didn't even brace for thaT4th rep really. And then fifth rep. I did decided to brace, but then yeah, this little struggle there. That's probably more of a 7, but I didn't want to go up. Then on this day, so again doing some funky stuff, Mike actually had me squatting 30% for 40 seconds straight. And then it was 40 seconds or 30 seconds, something like that. I think it was 40 seconds. And you take a minute break and do three rounds. So I'm not going to show you all of that stuff. So we'll just fast forward through this. But that's what I'm doinGHere. And let me tell you, uncomfortable. Very uncomfortable. Okay. The next exercise that I did was feet up bench. And I was supposed to work up to again 5 at 8. That's some of that strength maintenance stuff. This is 3 20 again, but with my feet up rather than feet down. So 5 at 8. And yeah, that looks hard enough. And then again, same sort of thing, 40 seconds, 30% of the one RM just keep moving. I'm not going to show you all of this, but I will tell you that 135 was very humbling at the end for this power lifter. And all right. And the next exercise I did after this, after that was that high pull down again for the 40 seconds of effort at 30% minute break by 3 rounds. So that was the end of day two. This is day three. I'm doing cannibal squats or plat squats. So my heels are elevated. And I'm supposed to be doing my reps. I'm just going to show you the first set of 15. This is 140 kilos, 308. And so with this, heels are elevated. Trying to push the knees as far forward as possible. I wish you would have brought my lifting shoes, but I changed gyms and I forgot my gym bag and my other car. So just doing these. First time ever doing them, they're okay. I think I could stay more vertical, but again, just more strength, maintenance stuff, get a pump, can't confirm. He started feeling very uncomfortable. So I did 15 here at 140. And then I did two sets of four after that. And I was like, yeah, that's enough. And then I did a second mile rep where I did 12 reps and the one set of four and was tired. All right. Second exercise. I was done bell bench. So the idea was just work up to set of 15 at RP-8. Do a couple sets there. So use 100. This is heavy as they go. So yeah, nothing special here. The exercise after this was a seated row mile rep, which I'm not showing you that because it's very boring. But this is D-Load. We basically each day I did some sort of squat or lower extremity dominant exercise. I did a bench press and I did some sort of row. And IMade it challenging by either doing a mile rep or higher rep sets, set like an eight. Or I would do some strength maintenance thing, which is like a 10 at eight or five at eight. And then the back off work was this timed interval set where you're just working for 40 seconds. Or you could do a circuit, you know, where you're doing, like 30% four or five to 10 reps of squat, bench, deadlift, or squat, bench, row or something like that. All right. So that's a wrap on trening vlog 38. Thank you so much for joining me on the barbell minus YouTube channel. If you liked the video, like you actually liked it, like click like. Let me know. Let the algorithm know. Leave us a comment below. Subscribe for all the latest updates and videos. You can turn the notification thing on if you're into that. And then let me know in the comments below what you want to see next time. It'll be trening vlog 39. It'll be six weeks out. And I'm really excited to show you this different type of trening leading into the meat. It's a lot more trening volume that I'm used to doing at this point and pretty excited to see how it works and to take you along for the ride. So in any case, thanks for joining me. Catch you next time.

=== FILE: Training VLOG 39： 6-Weeks Out and How-To Make Coffee [t64iLQ2LeBs].txt ===

Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. This is trening vlog number 39. I am six weeks out from my powerlifting meat and we're going to recap my lifts from the week. First, we need coffee. First up, let's start with the gear. I'm using a Baratza On-core Burr grinder. On the Burr grinder, I have the setting set to 15. Basically, there are two steel burrs that grind the coffee and the grind size is regulated by the distance between the two burrs. So, higher the number, the further the distance between the burrs and the course are the grind. The pour over that I'm using is a kaleeta trai wave pour over and it does use a paper filter that slows down the flow of water, but not a whole lot and then it waves inside the drippers well and that basically speeds up the flow of water. So, to get the right extraction to get the right flavor for me, I like to use a medium to find grind. It basically slows down the passage of water through the grounds because it's a little finer consistency. So like I said, I'm using a kaleeta trai wave pour over and I put that on top of the time more electronic scale. It not only tells you the mass of coffee grounds and water that you're using so you can get the right ratio, but also there's a timer on there. I'm also using Verf coffee, Verf was a local brand. I started in Santa Cruz, California and I was living up there for a little bit and got addicted and I can find it at my local Whole Foods. So that's the coffee that I'm using. So in any case to try to get the right amount of extraction, basically we're trying to get the right flavor notes from the beans. So I use this one to 15 ratio. You can use anything from one to 14, one to 16 and that's grounds to water. It's 40 grams of coffee to 600 grams of water when I'm making two cups or when I'm making one cup I'll use 30 grams of coffee and 450 grams of water. The main thinGHere is to use enough grounds to actually restrict the flow of water. So you actually have to have enough coffee grounds in the filter to make sure you're slowing down the passage of water enough. So I can't make a smaller cup with like 20 grams of grounds. So I kind of cut it off at 30 grams. That's the minimum amount of coffee that I'm going to make using this brew device. Another thing that people will tell you to like rinse the filter basically you're trying to rinse away any filter flavors. Maybe preheat the brewing device in this case to clen a dry wave dripper and maybe that helps maintain a constant flow rate of water if you preheat it. But I'm not convinced that any of that is real. So I don't want the filter. I don't do any of that stuff. In any case I just put 30 grams of coffee grounds into the filter and then I'm ready to start my pour. To do the pour I'm using the Stag EKG electric kettle. It's really great because you get to set the temperature and you want somewhere between 195 to 205 degrees Fahrenheit or 90 to 96 degrees Celsius. When I do the pours to make the coffee I'm trying to do four pours on average. I start the timer on my scale just to make sure that I'm taking enough time to for each pour and between pours. I'm usually trying to do about 60 grams of water on the first pour to get a bloom. That's basically the release of carbon dioxide from the beans. So I'm looking to do that over about 15 seconds and then wait about 40 seconds so at a minute I'll do my second pour which is usually 100 to 150 grams of water. Something like that. In another 20 seconds and then I'm going to wait a minute. Then I'm going to do about a similar slice pour maybe a little bit smaller because I'm just making one cup here. 15 to 20 seconds, wait another minute and then I'm going to finish it up to make my single cup at 450 grams. Again I'm using that one to 15 ratio and kind of let it finish dripping. It should take abouT3 to four minutes to do this whole brew. This is a light roast until I'm shooting for three to four minutes. It's a dark roast maybe a little bit longer but yep that's how IMake coffee. Just because I know it's going to come up if you have any questions about caffeine and how it pertains to health I did a YouTube video on that and I've linked that in the description below. A few announcements before we get into this week's trening blog did a really great podcast with Coach Jake Sipkin of NRK's trening methods. I've ever wondered about CrossFit, how to program for CrossFit, the differences between programming for a CrossFit athlete who's like going to the games, regionals versus recreational CrossFit, injury risk, all that sort of stuff. That's the podcast. It's the CrossFit podcast. I've linked that in the description below as well and then finally you may be digging this new spruce maybe is the color hoodie. We have a bunch of new apparel that is dropping tomorrow. This video should go up on Friday the 15th and then I believe the apparel drop is the 16th. Depending on when you're watching this, head over to the barbell medicine website and check out the new apparel if you want to rep barbell medicine. Okay, so let's hop into this week's trening. It was technically last week's trening because again that's how time works. So this current week, which you'll see next week, has also been going great. But last week was my first week of a new trening block. I wanted to answer a question that actually got a lot of likes from the last video because it does pertain to starting a new trening block, particularly for a meat prep. So Matt the Furn writes would love to see you troubleshoot trening and stuff during meat prep in order to stay on track to hit your numbers when things don't go as planned. So just first and foremost, I don't know that there's a way to manufacture a weight on the bar, meaning that if you go into a trening session and it's not there, I don't know that I have any tricks to give you to just spontaneously put more weight on the bar. Really, I think the most important thing that I could impart to you guys, the audience is when you're starting a new trening block is I would be a little bit more conservative in picking your initial weights. I think it is also useful, particularly if you're a trened individual and if it's a meat prep, there is a firm end date to your trening block to have goals that you're trying to achieve by the end of that block. Now, most trening should be process oriented and I get in all the trening in and I do all the sets, I'm sticking to the RPE, stuff like that. But I do think when you have a firm end date to your trening block because you have a meat, it's okay to also have some of those outcome-based goals. So for me, I do like starting conservatively on week one and I'm kind of basing where I'm starting at particularly for the lifts that I've had prior exposure to based on the last block. So the last trening block I finished up with a 291 kilo or 640 pounds squat on the bench press. I did 187.5 kilos, which is 412 pounds and then on the deadlift, I did 320, 4 kilo deadlift or 115 pounds. So I don't want to start there because that's as high as I got on the last trening block. I want to start a little bit under it and the idea is that through this block I'll be able to surpass that and then do that at the meat. And since I have meat numbers that I'm kind of thinking about, I also know like, okay, I can't start any lower than this and reasonably add a little chunk of weight each week. So to do this in practice, I think the RPE is going to be very useful. So generally on your prescription for trening, you're going to have rep set an RPE sort of prescription. Mine, for example, this week for squat was aromasingle at eight and then do a set of five at eight and then do one back down set. That was on competition squat. I had multiple other squats, slots throughout the week. So in picking that weight, if I want to end around 290 or maybe a little bit higher before I go to the meat, I know that the most I'm going to feel comfortable adding week by week is about five kilos. Sure if I'm really feeling it, I could add a little bit more but the idea that I'll be able to add seven and a half kilos or ten kilos per week is just unlikely. 1% 2% that seems like a reasonable sort of gain, particularly if I'm building momentum, which is probably the most important thing you can do in a meat prep block. You want the person feeling invincible when they go into the meat, have a lot of positive jugeo, a lot of momentum rolling into the meat if you can. So I couldn't start any lighter really than like 270 or 270 2.5 kilos, which is 595 or 600 pounds. The idea would be, I'm going to try to add five kilos each week and then if I do that, the duration of this meat prep block I'll be at 290 or so by the end of it before I go to the meat. I would be totally fine hitting 290 again and going into the meat and then trying to hit something like 295 at the meat if it's there. So the benchmark, how do they get to 290 kilos or 638 pounds as like my sort of target? I'm looking at like a conservative third attempt. Something that I'm pretty sure I can get. I'm really confident in and I would like to do that in trening. My reach number is like 295 kilos or 650 pounds or maybe even 300 kilos, 660 pounds. But I just don't think it's reasonable that I'm going to hit that in trening without it costing me a ton of fatigue. If I didn't have a meat coming up, then you know, yellow, let's do this thing. But so that's the way I kind of bracket like where do I want to get by the end of a meat? What's the conservative third? So for a squat, it's 290 kilos or 638 pounds for a bench. Some around 200 kilos or 440 pounds and on deadlift I'd like to pull 340, which is 748. I believe so yeah, I'm going to add, try to add somewhere between 2.5 to 5 kilos per week to each of my top singles there. And so in order to ensure that at least the first 2 or 3 weeks of this meat prep block, I'm building some positive momentum, I'm going to start conservatively. Doesn't mean to ignore the RPE. It just means that you don't have to concentrate on making sure it's really aromasingle of 8. If it's aromasingle 7 or 7 and a half, that's fine. Try to build some momentum this first few weeks and then ideally you have all those good vibes going into the final few weeks. Make sure at that point you might go do aromasingle at 8.5 or aromasingle at 9, over a shoot a little bit to hit your target. But the point is to, at that point you're very close to the meat, it's probably a good trade-off at that point rather than doing it at the start of a meat prep block. Again, I don't know a way to manufacture weight on days that it's just not there, but I do play some games with myself. For example, I can't add weight to the top set or top single or something or it don't feel comfortable doing that, I'll try to do it on a back-off set or something like that. So at least I feel like I'm improving, I can rationalize things, I'm still trening that way. Now this assumes that I'm not injured or feeling just very, very fatigued. If that's the case, I'm probably going to try to change the programming in order to again, try to build some momentum and dissipate fatigue. So if I'm injured or very, very fatigued, IMay start my taper earlier, maybe 10 days out, 14 days out, which is about twice as long as I normally do, just like three to five days, it's my normal taper to go into a meat. Or if my trening numbers are just kind of tanking and I don't really feel that tired, I don't really feel that that beat up that I'm kind of like, all right, well this programming isn't really working, maybe I need to go back to a more sort of developmental phase where I'm doing maybe aromasingle, seven or single, eight, and then more volume sets a five at a lower RPE or sets a four at a lower RPE to kind of again, try to build some momentum where I can add weight week by week versus more of a specialization block, which is what I'm in now with aromasingle, eight, and then more some higher intensity work. So that's just kind of how I start a block and I do think that it's important to be relatively conservative when you're starting out, give yourself some room to grow, it's okay to understute, I'd much rather have you understute the initial weights than overstute, and then as far as how much can you understute by, well it just depends on where trying to go and how much time you have. And what you feel like is a reasonable target for yourself to actually add weight to the bar each week. It's unlikely that you'll be able to add weight to the bar each week indefinitely, that linear progression thing kind of falls off, but you know, we gotta make a while of the sun shining and for me right now, my confidence is at all time high, my treninGHas been going really, really well and I feel like it's reasonable, I can add two and a half to five kilos, two my competition lifts each week for the next few weeks as I go into the meat, hit my targets and then do some damage at the meat. So hopefully that's helpful. Let me know in the comments below and which you guys want me to talk about next week, otherwise we'll just review the lifts, which is what we'll do now. All right, so we're starting off on squats here. So this is again the first week of new meat prep block, this is 272.5 kilos, 601, using the squat bar, that looks crispy, good velocity. IMean I probably rate this a seven or seven and a half, but again trying to start conservatively and these are the back offsets, actually done at a little bit lower intensity this first week. So this is only 215 kilos, 463 pounds, if my kilo to pound math is good off hand. Yeah, this second week it actually bumped up to a five at eight, but just had some lighter percentage back offs. This is my comp bench, which I did also on day one, 180 kilos, 396 pounds. This is probably going to be either my last warm-up before my bench, and then I had penalty rows, this is 140 kilos, 388 pounds. I don't really like these platforms are super bouncy, but whatever. And then after that I had track bar dead lifts, so this is 240 kilos, 528 pounds I believe. I had these for eights. So the biggest difference between this block in my last normal meat prep block is I'm doing a lot less volume per lift, but a lot more lifts. So I normally do three lifts per session or so, this is five to six lifts per session, and the overall volume ends up being the same. It just, there's just more lifts. And then I finished up with dumbbell bench. Again, these are hundreds and I'm supposed to do 10 reps at seven. The problem is they don't have any heavier dumbbells, so I actually swapped this out on week two for a duffle of bar bench. Just trying to get that added range of motion. I think that's the real purpose here in addition to some unilateral work. I couldn't find a way. If you're going to wait to do unilateral work, so anyway, all right. So this is day two, 606 or 200 and 75 kilos. About a two inch deficit. And I'm going to do this for a set of four at eight. Yeah, I feel like these are pretty good. Again, with the bouncy platforms, the bar just kind of like jumps all over the place. It actually doesn't feel great on my arms because it's really hard to like just relax your arms at the bottom. So that I went to feed up bench press. It's 130 kilos to 86 pounds. And the biggest thing for me here is to try to keep my shoulder blades pulled back. So when you're doing this feed up stuff, really trying to keep your shoulder blades back. I'm not doing a great job here, but doing sets of 10. So it's hard to keep that going, but just something I'm seeing. Still on day two, same outfit you see. Beltsquats, some doing these with a much narrower stance than I do. Most of the time because it's supposed to be close, close stance, beltsquats. This is actually a myel rep. I can't remember if it was my first or my second myel rep set, but do three 15 for set of 15. It's me somewhere close that eight to nine range, RPUIs. And then I do sets of four after that. So I did two sets of four. I believe one of the first one. And then one set of four and called it on the second one. Myel reps are tough. And for me, particularly because I'm really good at doing singles and low reps stuff, particularly now on my trening. Myel reps just gas me. So, but cool shirt, all right. Okay, so this is day three, comp deadlift. This is 320 kilos, 705 pounds. So again, just startinGHere so that I can add, you know, about five kilos per week as I go into the meat, hit 340 before the meat. Little torque in the mirror. If you guys saw this on Instagram, that's kind of funny. And yeah, I'm happy the way this moved. Starting out over 700 pounds, rated RPA, maybe a little less than that. This is 280 kilos, 16 pounds. I'm going to do this for a set of four. So the prescription was aromasingle at eight and four at eight. This is probably a little bit lighter than an eight. But, you know, again, being conservative on week one so I can build some momentum, manufacture momentum for sure. I don't know how to manufacture weight on the bar when you don't have it, but manufacture some momentum. I can start out a little lighter and then kind of at least give myself a few weeks to grow into a block. Second movement of the day, this is pin bench. This is 182.5 kilos, 402 I believe. And I think that actually moved a little bit better. Even though I hit the I need to move out further from the rack. I think that moved better than my comp bench. So that's reassuring. 165 kilos, 363 pounds. Yeah, this moved pretty good. Again, pin bench is not stronger than my regular bench. It just for whatever reason on this particular day felt better. And these are the GM presses. So another upper body slot, press dominant slot. And I use chains on there to make a little harder at the top just because I'm trying to focus on the tricep. So this is kind of like a hybrid skull crusher, bench press sort of thing. It's trying to really keep the elbows forward and tucked and not hit myself in the face. Did that for sets of 10? Then I did close stance hack squat. This is two 95. I believe these are my o-reps. No, I think these are just sets of 10. You can see my low back actually coming off the pad on some of these reps. And I think, IMean, I haven't ever had never used this particular hack squat machine before. So I did them again this week and again, really Q and myself to kind of push in the pad. Maybe a little bit more comfortable, but, you know, just trying to get some extra leg work with a little bit less back fatigue than another squat slot. These are fine. Squats, squats moving. So can't can't complain. Finally, on a day four, start out with high bar squat. Like the Halloween shirt and the contrast here. A lot of fast fall off. So the idea here was to just set a five and eight. This is 500 pounds. Yeah, haven't done high bar on a while. I think I could do a better job keeping my elbows down, particularly my right elbow. I don't know what it's doing all the way out there. I think the bar is just off centered a little bit if I see. But yeah, that was probably the less than an eight, maybe a seven. But again, conservative, build momentum. Yadda, Yadda, Yadda, you guys know the drill. This close grip bench says 350, 8 pounds or 162.5 kilos. Instead of five, you're like, why are you coming and bringing the bar down so fast? Well, I've been hesitant to actually bring the bar down fast on all the rest of my bench work. And that was my cue. That is bench go faster. And that was a pretty good place to start. Then I had RDLs for sets of 15. And I'm not gonna lie to you guys. My back was lit at this point. So it kept a pretty light 185 kilos, 407. Got some work in. Biggest thing people do wrong in RDLs, they keep their knees straight. It's not a stiff like a deadlift. It's kind of like just a three-quarter deadlift from the top. And yeah, so I come down as low as I can without touching the plates to the floor unless I'm programmed a different depth. But mid-shin levels would I kind of aim for? Keep my back flat as possible. And then squeeze my butt at top. And that's my trening from six weeks out. This is trening vlog 39. So let me know what you guys want to see on next week's vlog. Could be golf. Could be I'd recently sold both of my vehicles and picked up something new. So if you want to turn this into a car show, we can do that too. Let me know in the comments below. Let me know what you want to talk about trening wise next week. And we'll have all the trening footage and do this thing again. Thanks for tuning in. Here on the barbell medicine YouTube channel. Again, I'm Dr. Jordan Faganbaum. See you guys next time.

=== FILE: Trouble on The Tee Box (Mystery Case) [C3TEdBMDz9M].txt ===

ненене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Cue the mystery music. This is a real study, a real report of a real patient that was published in the medical literature. And what I'm going to do is deliver the details of this case piecemeal to Dr. Austin Baraki, who's on the other end of the line. And we're going to see if he comes up with the correct diagnosis. Now, I'll also be giving you guys prompts to pause the podcast if you want to play along at home, if you're a medical student, if you're a physician or otherwise just, you know, stay at a Holiday Inn Express. Whatever you want to do, see if you can come up with the correct diagnosis as well. Dr. Baraki, what's going on, man? Hey, doing all right. As usual, just my normal alternating life between hospital and non-hospital things. And so right now I finished rounds this morning, did some teaching in the hospital with my residents and now ready to do this right before I do some training this afternoon. Would you prefer more hospital stuff or less hospital stuff? I guess there's a third option where like the amount of hospital things that you're doing is adequate and you would prefer no change. So you get to get the options. Yeah. I think in my current position at this point, I'm at a point where I would say like adequate to slightly less would be acceptable to me. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. I am also at a point where I have adequate amount of exposure. Exposure. Yes. Yeah. To potentially less would be fine. Because that means that everybody I know and care about and love is healthy and otherwise not interfacing with the medical system. So a few announcements before we get into this medical mystery case. First off, we just released a new template, second generation bodybuilding one. So the previous first generation was four day only, which did not suit a lot of people's schedules. So I made it a three day and four day. Updated the programming based on feedback and some kind of digging that I've done with data collection we've done in the app to see how people were doing. So updated the resistance training programming. I updated the conditioning programming pretty significantly on both fronts. Also expanded the text that comes with the template, particularly talking about training splits, incorporation of supersets. You wanted to use those to cut down on time and obviously conditioning as well. So if you're looking to put on some muscular size, that's your main priority. Or if you want like an offseason program, if you are a competitive strength athlete, this would be a good template for you. So you can check that out. It's linked in the description below. Or you can go to our app or on our website and poke around on there. Also, again, we do have our program library. If you were a subscriber to our program library, you get our entire cadre, all of our training programs for one low monthly price, $12.99 per month. And now you have access to this newest template. So that's also linked in the description below if that's something that you're interested in. Recently published a new article on collagen protein, which I recommend sending to people you don't like. Mainly because like, you know, if you don't want to read the article, I'll just cut. I'll just cut to the chase. Collagen protein is not a good source of dietary protein. Or much else. That's what I'm saying, right? So like it's like if if you are a collagen protein enthusiast, you like collagen protein. My question to you is, are you you mean to tell me that the amino acids that make up collagen protein, which are the same amino acids pretty much of any other protein source, although it is missing at least one of them, tryptophan. Again, you mean to tell me that these amino acids are smart. They're intelligent. They know exactly where to go and what to do. If so, that's I'll have where you're having. I'll smoke what you're smoking. Let's let's go. In any case. Yeah. So if you've ever wondered about collagen protein, whether or not it really works to reduce joint pain, to improve skin, certain skin parameters. Well, we're going to we dig into that with a bunch of citations listed as well. If you want to go on to some of the primary literature. Also, again, we do have our testosterone course that Dr. Austin Baraki spearheaded. So if you want to learn everything there is to know about testosterone, at least as far as how it applies to training, health, maybe what do if you're considering maybe managing some low testosterone or what we call testosterone deficiency. We have a course available for you. That's linked in the description below. And if you're not interested in a course, but you're more interested in like a low testosterone or testosterone, quote, optimization action plan, which we actually hate that that phrasing. But if you were interested in that, that's available for you for free. You just go over to the article on low testosterone that we have on our website and you can get that action plan delivered to your email. And if you've ever wanted a Barbell Medicine coach to weigh in on your technique, your exercise technique, you can now do that for free. So head over to our website, barbellmedicine.com, click the shop tab and then scroll down and click form check and we'll take care of the rest. Last but not least, I am doing a nutrition webinar. So for those of you who don't know what a webinar is, because I feel like that's almost like a millennial term, like an elder millennial term. Yeah, it's like a it's like if you said facsimile to it. You're like, do they know what that is? Nonsensical term. That's right. I'm hosting that next. It'll be Monday, June 9th. I believe it's at noon or 1 p.m. Pacific Standard Time, something like that. And it's I think it's $13 U.S. to to attend. And so a bunch of people are going to be there. I'm going to answer some questions, do a Q&A should be should be pretty fun. And if you've ever wanted to know what I know about nutrition, here you go. You can sign up for that link is in the description below. All right. This is my particular favorite part of the mystery case series. Is Dr. Austin Baraki going to correctly get the diagnosis? And I'm sad to disappoint everybody. The answer is yes. He's going to get it. I have full faith in your anatomy recollection and your ability to deduce based on clinical presentation what's going on. Oh, anatomy. OK, well, he opens netters. Do you remember before we get in? Do you remember what atlas, what anatomy atlas you used in medical school? Were you a netters person or a graze person or like a? I remember the textbook cover was gray and blue, but I don't remember who the author was. Yeah, you were a graze, a graze person. There you go. I remember when I went to EVMS, that's where we both went to medical school, that they recommended graze. And I was like, come on, guys. Now, and to be fair, like I don't I don't I'm not getting paid anything by like anatomy text publishers or whatever. The problem with the atlases, which I actually don't. Is there a different plural of the word atlas? Is there like no idea? Just atlas. Anyway, the problem is just pictures. Right. So if you're not involved in a course that has like a syllabus and a bunch of written stuff, you're just looking at pictures, which can be useful for like ascertaining relationships and such. But if you're not taking a formal course paired with those, the atlas itself is like not that useful because you're just like looking at photos and like, I guess this is fine. So I actually liked Moore's clinical anatomy much more because not only was there text associated with it, but there was a lot of like clinical pearls because I mean, before I went to medical school, I actually got a master's in anatomy and it was super interesting from like structure, function, relationship. You know, I got to teach anatomy. So all that was useful. But as far as like clinical pearls that you would actually see in clinical practice, not terribly useful. You know, the anatomy, my anatomy was good. But like, how does that translate to actual clinical care? The Moore's clinical anatomy, that was my recommendation. Somebody out there who's like, you know, an orthopedist or something might say, oh, you got to get this particular, you know, sports medicine or orthopedic, you know, anatomy resource. I'm like, that's fair. But I think if you're a medical student, medical student adjacent, Moore's clinical anatomy is my recommendation. I don't have a discount code. I'm sorry. I can't hook you up. Yeah, I would just trust your judgment on that. Anatomy was fine, but not my favorite. You like physiology. Yeah, that explains my specialty choice. As an internist and non-surgeon, his physiology pathophys is way cooler in my opinion. But anyway. All right. Moving on. So, yeah, you're going to get this. Are you ready? You ready to start the case? Let's go. All right. Here we go. 38-year-old, previously healthy man presents to the emergency department via EMS due to an acute onset of severe head pain, dizziness, and vomiting while playing golf. Prior to the presentation, the man had been playing golf without issue. On the 18th hole, after hitting his drive, he reports a sudden onset of dizziness and loss of balance. At this time, he said he noticed a severe head pain. It's predominantly located in the back of his head and the base of his neck. He subsequently vomited several times. He was unable to stand without bracing himself on the cart, which prompted his playing partners to call 911, where he was transported immediately to the hospital. Now, his past medical history is significant for a number of neck injuries sustained during college football and wrestling. One of these injuries was diagnosed as a subluxation, which is basically just a loss of normal position of both his C5 and C6 vertebra, which did not require surgery. He was also hit by a car later that year, sustaining a laceration to his skull, but no spine injuries. The patient denies taking any medications, any supplements, or using any illicit substances. But this particular case report had lots and lots of golf-related info. So, for example, he said that the patient considered himself a novice golfer, where he would take on average 95 to 100 shots for a round of 18 holes, which, if you're not a golfer, that's not bad. It's not good, also, but if it's true. To be clear, though, if it's a true, like, oh, I break 100, but it's like shoot under 100. If you truly shoot under 100, that's not bad. Most people lie about what they shoot on the golf course. Like, and I actually have a hat. It's my favorite hat to wear when I golf. It says no one cares what you shot, which is true. This is pretty true. This is analogous to people saying, you know, like, when they're asked, like, how much they lift, they just embellish, right? They're like, ah, about 315. And then you load 315 on the bar, and it staples them. And you're like, okay, well, you don't lift that. So, in any case, not great, but not good. But he's an avid golfer. He's been playing for 10 years. They talk about his setup when he goes to hit a drive. This is an exceptional level of detail. I suspect because when they publish these case reports, it is possible that despite golf being one of the top 10 most widely played sports in the entire world, I think it was number 10 last time I checked this, that some people may be unfamiliar with, like, what golf is. And they're like, he stands, you know, with the ball, you know, equidistant from his front and trail leg with his arms fully extended and his lumbar spine at a 20-degree angle relative to, like, all this sort of stuff. They name his driver. They tell you the brand name of his driver. He was playing a tailor-made. They said the material of the driver, which was titanium. And then he said the patient reports trying to swing, quote, as hard as I can when he hits the golf ball, which... Hell, yeah. Hell, yeah. In any case, back to the medicine. Yeah. The patient is currently endorsing nausea, dizziness, and head pain that he rates between 8 to 9 out of 10, predominantly located in the back of his head and his neck area. So if you wanted to play along at home, this would be a time where you would pause and you would summarize the patient and maybe give a differential diagnosis, just a list of things you think possibly could be. And if you want a gold star, extra credit, perhaps, you would also think about, well, what would I do next or want to know next to help narrow down my list of potential diagnoses? Okay, now that you've paused it, I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Austin Baraki. What's up with this patient? Yeah, this is an interesting and very concerning presentation. So I'd summarize I'm 38-year-old without a ton of other medical history aside from some multiple traumatic neck injuries, let's say. Coming in with acute, severe occipital headache associated with dizziness, vomiting, inability to stand while he was hitting golf balls as hard as he could. That would be my summary of this. And so there are a lot of different ways that you could approach this. If I were teaching an approach to this case, you could pick any of these symptoms and work through. What's the general differential diagnosis for headache or for dizziness or for vomiting or for inability to stand? And so I won't go through that exercise for each of those individual symptoms. But in general, when we've done this kind of thing before where patients have multiple simultaneous symptoms, we tend to pick the one with what we call the greatest specificity or the thing that localizes us the most. And so vomiting, for example, is something that can come from so many different causes. It can happen from gastrointestinal conditions. It can come from cardiac issues. It can come from neurologic issues. It can come from just like medicines. It can happen when patients are anxious. It can happen from withdrawal, all sorts of things. And so vomiting can come from so many different places that it's not where I'm going to focus my immediate attention. Whereas this patient seems to describe a couple of things that really localize me to their head and neck. Obviously, the pain that is described as being very specifically sudden onset, severe and in the back of the head. And it's associated with other things that fall into that neurological central nervous system, head and neck type realm to include dizziness as well as his inability to stand. So when we think about headaches in general, by and large, most people who have headaches, they're benign, right? A primary headache like a tension headache or a migraine or something like that. But once you have that type of headache syndrome associated with other what we'll call kind of red flag type symptoms, that changes your framework for this, your differential, what we call to secondary headaches, headaches that are coming from the head and neck from some sort of structural abnormality or physiologic abnormality that's going on. So this includes, you know, new onset headaches that are either what we'll call super sudden onset. The term thunderclap headache kind of comes to mind when we see when we hear about this patient story. But there are other non-thunderclap or non-super sudden onset headaches that can also be concerning. So patients who have headaches and fevers, if they have a weakened immune system, if they have a history of cancer, kind of like when we talk about red flags with back pain, many of the similar types of concerns will arise if the patient presents with a headache and many of those things. Now, again, in this situation, we have what we're going to call a thunderclap headache, just abrupt onset severe headache. And even more concerningly, it's associated with these other neurological symptoms. So the way I think about abrupt onset symptoms, this is something we've gone over actually several times. Anytime something comes on suddenly, I think about did something rupture like a blood vessel? Did something spasm also like a blood vessel? Is there a vessel that's obstructed, blocked by a clot? Is it dissected? Is there some other form of leakage or some sort of sudden onset problem? And by and large, the vast majority of things that happen suddenly relate to vascular problems. Also, in the brain and in the heart, you can have electrical problems that happen suddenly. But this does not fit kind of an electrical phenomenon. And then obviously, like orthopedic things, fractures and tears and things like that can also occur suddenly. So I'm most concerned for some sort of a sudden onset process in this patient's head and most likely where they're pointing as their pain is in the back of their neck. That can also lead to some of these neurological symptoms. So I'm concerned about a vascular problem, sudden onset in the back of the neck. For example, something like a vertebral artery dissection is a relatively common thing. And we see it in patients with certain types of traumatic injuries. We see it in association. I'm going to stir up some controversy here in patients who undergo chiropractic or neck manipulation, as well as in patients who are doing things like what this patient did. So I'm wondering, was he swinging as hard as he can? He's doing aggressive, violent, twisting motion with his prior history of traumatic neck injuries. You know, I can envision a scenario where he has some orthopedic abnormalities, some osteophytes, various other things going on in his neck and predisposed him to develop some sort of vertebral artery dissection. I'm not 100 percent anchoring on that as my final diagnosis just yet. Obviously, we would need a CT angiogram of his head and neck, which will be one of the first things that happens when this patient rolls into the ER. But that would be where I would start with this patient. Yeah, no, that's very good. And I always thought that, you know, despite your misgivings about anatomy, that it's not your favorite. It was just OK. Yeah. I thought neuroanatomy in particular was absolutely fascinating, particularly from like a Sherlock Holmes type of standpoint. Yeah. Because localizing the lesion is super fun. I remember my very first neuroanatomy exam during my master's program. The like end the final boss. Right. You go through all of the multiple choice questions. The end was like a free response kind of thing. And this dude, apparently you didn't know like what what happened to him. You just had the constellation of symptoms. You say, oh, here's where the lesion is. Right. Yeah. And then you figure how to figure out, like, how could this possibly have happened? Turns out the dude took like a an ice pick to the middle of his head. So you had that's why he had symptoms on both sides. And you realize a lot of people are like, well, how is that possible? Yeah. Usually it's one sided. Anyway. Cool. Neuroanatomy is cool. I agree. If you like neuroanatomy, you're cool. That's that's all right. You are correct that if this person walked into or was delivered to an emergency room anywhere in the United States, probably anywhere in the world, they'd be shipped off for imaging immediately. But suspend your disbelief. Sure. And say that you went and saw the patient prior to this. Totally. There's a backup. So the patient does appear uncomfortable sitting in the bed. But he's alert and oriented. He's able to give a history. He's a large dude. He's five eleven to thirty five jacked. He played college football as a wrestler. It's basically Spencer Nadolsky, although I think Spencer's taller than five eleven. Yeah. His head exam is atraumatic. That's good. He has no tenderness to palpation anywhere, particularly where he says that he has pain, but it's not tender on palpation. His heart exam, lung exam, both stone cold normal. His neurological exam is significant for a number of things. First off, you notice that his eyes have this low frequency oscillation where they drift slowly away to the left and then rapidly back to the right. He's pretty much unable to stand due to dizziness. But once standing and you tried to get him to walk with some spotters nearby, his gait was wildly uncoordinated. He would fall almost immediately towards the right. However, other than that, when he's sitting in the bed, his motor exam for his upper and lower extremities are pretty normal. Normal reflexes, both the upper and lower extremities. No labs are currently available because you're like, this guy's got to go off to imaging. So before we go any further, and if you're playing along at home, this would be another time to stop. Maybe re-summarize the patient and refine your differential diagnosis. What do you think about this patient, Dr. Baraki? Yeah, our 38-year-old with that prior neck injury history with thunderclap headache, dizziness, vomiting, inability to stand. And on his neurological exam, what you were describing is a phenomenon known as nystagmus, where he has the slow phase to the left and rapid shifting of his eyes off to the right. And basically, we are observing lesions or the results of lesions in this patient's central nervous system in his brain. And most concerningly, not only with the location of his pain, but also the areas of the brain that kind of control the types of functions that are broken in him, like his ability to coordinate, like the kind of position of your eyes, things like that, and symptoms of dizziness are what we call the posterior circulation or in the back of the brain, the blood vessels that feed the back of the brain and the brain stem, which is where a lot of critical stuff kind of functions, including your, like I said, your cerebellum and brain stem, which are fed by these blood vessels in the back of the brain, including the vertebral arteries and a bunch of branches off of those. And so, you know, if it's interesting how, you know, a patient could have these types of symptoms, but if they said, I've had these symptoms, they've been kind of gradually worsening over the course of like months, that would put us in one particular bucket of the types of conditions that can develop and progress at that kind of slow rate, like a tumor, for example, growing over time. Or if it happened over the course of a few weeks, you would think about certain other types of conditions, or if it was a few days. But here we're in this situation where he was fine, and then just abrupt, sudden onset. And so, again, I'll return to the leading concern in a patient like this is some sort of vascular problem. So sudden onset neurology in general, you're worried about stroke, stroke, stroke, stroke, stroke, versus seizure, versus something else when something shows up this suddenly. And strokes can be due to lack of blood flow. They can be due to blood clots. They can be due to bleeding into the brain. And so that's why this patient needs immediate brain imaging. They would go for a CT scan of their brain, CT angiogram of their head and neck, ideally, you know, within the first hour that they show up, if not much faster than that, depending on the resources of the center. And so it appears you have sent me a representative image of this patient's brain. And half of their cerebellum appears to be very unhappy. And so I am, in fact, concerned that this patient has had essentially a relatively large stroke in the back of their brain, which when we think about strokes in the brain, that often relates to a lack of blood flow for some reason, whether it's due to a clot that developed in the blood vessels or was sent into those blood vessels or if the vessels, again, spasmed, dissected, all sorts of problems. So our suspicion continues to rise higher and higher for a vascular problem in this patient's head and neck. Yeah, this patient was whisked off to the radiology department. He had a head CT and an MRI. Both performed, showed this hypodensity in the right posterior fossa. And so if you're watching this on YouTube, you'll see the image on the screen right now. You're looking up, basically, at the patient from the underneath side, and you see that white, almost homogenous area. Not supposed to look like that. Yeah. Not supposed to look like that. That's one of the areas of the cerebellum. So you were correct so far. Now, the question is, I can't give you any more information because you're at a limited academic center right now. For whatever reason, you can't get any more information, and you have to make a diagnosis now based on the information I provided. What's going on with this patient? I think my best guess continues to be what I described earlier. So, you know, this patient has this prior neck history, and he had this aggressive rapid twisting motion, which is, again, a setup for patients developing something like a vertebral artery dissection. You know, in a much older patient who didn't have this traumatic history coming in with this kind of thing, you might think, okay, maybe they had an atherosclerotic plaque rupture leading to an ischemic stroke. If the stroke was in a different area as well, you might say, okay, maybe they have atrial fibrillation and they sent a clot up into their brain or something else like that. This guy is relatively young. We don't have a history of a ton of, you know, cardiovascular disease or risk factors for that kind of thing, as well as even more. I mean, the differential diagnosis for what we'll call, quote, unquote, stroke in the young is actually quite lengthy and detailed. But here, again, just the rapid twisting, hitting the golf ball as hard as I could continues to pull me back towards a dissection as the most likely thing that I'm suspicious of here. Yeah. So he was transferred to a tertiary care center where an angiogram was performed, showed a thrombus in the right vertebral artery beginning at the level of cervical vertebra number six, C6. He started on IV heparin, which is an anticoagulant, and then that was followed by oral anticoagulation. After two weeks, his neuro exam was back to normal. He was asymptomatic, and the oral anticoagulants were discontinued at the time. So I'm going to give it to you. You said vertebral artery dissection on your very first differential diagnosis, and you kept saying that, and everything points towards vertebral artery dissection. Yeah. It fits. This case screams that. And I think the recognition of this pattern just comes from having seen a fair amount of this over the years, although not necessarily from swinging a very particular titanium golf club. As was described in this case. Do we call this a golfer stroke? Oh, I see what you did there. Yeah, not bad. All right. So I wanted to talk about vertebral artery dissection, and we've talked about dissection a number of times on these medical mystery cases as well as some of our cardiovascular-related content. But just as a reminder, a dissection is a tear or a separation in the layers of the blood vessel wall. You have multiple layers in the blood vessel. The inner layer is called the intima. And so if that layer tears or separates from the next layer, the muscular layer, for example, you can get blood between those two layers. And you can even get an outpouching where blood is just collected. It's not flowing how it should, however. And so effectively, you have this false lumen, the space filled with blood. And because that blood's there and not going to where it should, bad things can happen. So in a vertebral artery dissection like this patient had, this is a common cause of stroke in young adults. The mean age is 44 to 53, which is relatively young compared to something like an embolism or like something related to atherosclerotic plaque, for example. The epidemiology suggests that there's about one per 100,000 individuals per year, although the actual incidence is likely higher since many cases have minor or no clinical signs. It is possible to have one of these and not really know, like, what's going on. But if it's severe enough, it is highly likely that you're going to know. The anatomy, as an anatomist, is very interesting to me. It is possible to have dissection in other arteries supplying structures of the cranial vault in the head. But the vertebral artery itself is pretty interesting. It pops off the subclavian artery that's down in your chest, and it ascends through holes. It goes up through holes in your cervical vertebra, C6, all the way up through C2, these little holes called transverse foramina. And then it bends around the atlas, which is the first cervical vertebra, before entering the big hole in the bottom of the skull. We call that the foramen magnum. Now, the vertebral artery supplies blood to the brainstem. And, in fact, both vertebral arteries come together to form the basilar artery. It sits on part of your, you know, the brainstem structures and supplies blood, again, to the brainstem, to the cerebellum, and posterior aspects of the brain, just as you mentioned, the posterior circulation. It is pretty vulnerable as it enters the base of the skull, particularly as it bends around C1. It's just kind of exposed, hanging out there. So, yeah, some vulnerability there. If there is a vertebral artery dissection, the most common complaints are head and neck pain. Again, it's acute onset. It doesn't tend to, like, smolder for a while and then get worse. It's pretty severe all of a sudden. It's usually on the same side as a person is having symptoms. So, if you are an astute listener, you notice that this patient was falling to the right. For example, his nystagmus, the FAST component, was to the right, which indicates the side of the lesion, which is, I think, pretty interesting as an anatomy nerd. As far as other symptoms, yeah, depending on how large the defect is, how much blood is not flowing in the correct direction, how much blood is missing that would otherwise be there, and the mismatched demands versus supply, you can get all sorts of other symptoms. So, this patient had difficulties walking, standing, the coordination. The coordination problems pretty much just point right to the cerebellum. You're like, ooh, cerebellum's pickled. And then some other signs related to the brainstem, where he's also missing some blood flow. The risk factors for vertebral artery dissection are also interesting. Obviously, trauma is one. Can be minor in some cases, but obviously major trauma would be on the top of the list for risk factors. Connective tissue disorders are another problem. So, things like Marfan's, fibromuscular dysplasia, which is actually the most common connective tissue disorder that presents with this, but also like Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and other stuff. You can also have anatomical issues. So, if you had like a bone spur on the cervical spine, which this patient may or may not have had, they didn't report that. You could have an elongated styloid process. That's a little bony thing coming off of the temporal bone. And if that's super long, that can actually like rub against or even sometimes puncture the vertebral artery. Bad luck. Bad luck, indeed. And also, yeah, chiropractic neck adjustment. Although, if you go to the UpToDate article on this, they just hand-waved this away. And I think they just didn't want to deal with any sort of like emails related to this. They're like, causality is difficult to establish. And they're like, yeah, we're just not going to like wade into those waters. Yeah. Yeah. I'm somewhat reluctant to do the same. A lot of the debate around this, you know, some of the pushback I've seen, for example, from chiropractors on this or those who perform this type of neck manipulation, they'll say, well, the patient, you know, came in with neck pain and we performed the manipulation to treat it. And so the neck pain that they came in with was actually the, you know, the dissection that they had before we manipulated them. And I'm like, that may or may not be true, but that doesn't make it better because they're having a dissection and you're managing it with manipulation, right? Even if you didn't cause it, perhaps you might have, you know, thought about recognizing that maybe this patient's having that, which I know, you know, if they're having frank neurological symptoms, many of them will recognize, oh, if this patient is having, you know, vertigo, ataxia, whatever, I'll send them to an ER. But if it's a more subtle one, you know, I don't know how you differentiate whether somebody's having a vertebral artery dissection or not. If they don't have neurological symptoms, it's not something that you would be able to determine. And that's not to say that anyone with neck pain needs an angiogram of their neck done. But it's just, yeah, that's why this is also tricky and controversial and people argue about it a lot. So my personal philosophy is not to have people mashing on my neck. And I generally advise the same to others. Seems reasonable, but I assume that, you know, somebody is going to come at us. And yeah, we'll deal with that. As far as treatment goes, anticoagulation is the preferred treatment, although there's been some thought to like do nothing because some people it tends to resolve. It obviously depends on the amount of symptoms, the patient presentation or whatever. Now, here's the interesting thing. Why are we treating a bleed with an anticoagulant? I mean, that's really what we're talking about here. Like, look, man, you're bleeding into a space you shouldn't be bleeding into. Why are we giving you an anticoagulant? What's up with that? Yeah, because when blood sits someplace too long, it can clot. And the clot can then, depending on. !нененене, Milliarden,нене, Milliarden,нене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden the like ongoing management of their neurological syndrome that we usually have stroke neurologists for that purpose. And so I'm not the expert to guide those exact types of decisions, but this is very different than somebody who has, for example, what we'll call a hemorrhagic stroke, who is like bleeding into their brain from a ruptured aneurysm or from, you know, a blood vessel that ruptures in the brain. Those are definitively not treated with blood thinners, but here when you have a dissection flap and a clot associated with it leading to stroke, then that's the justification for it. Yeah. Would you have gotten, if I, on the angiogram, if I would have said string sign, would that have conjured up pathognomonic vertebral artery dissection diagnosis? No, but if you had showed me a picture of it, I would have identified a dissection flap. And so that's, that's the key. String sign is not a term that I'm used to throwing around for that, but yeah, a flap is what you're looking for. I didn't recall the string sign, but I was like, no, I don't know, man, it was a long, long time ago. So yeah, I'm clear. So as far as the prognosis on this, pretty good. Most people do pretty well. And I know what you're thinking is you're like, well, look at the brain. He just said that half the cerebellum was dead. This dude was fine in two weeks. It turns out if you restore blood flow pretty quickly, like people do generally well, which is why it's important to like recognize this early on and like seek treatment. So that to me is the major take home here is that any sort of trauma, particularly that involves neck movement that, that results in what we would just call short-term or acute neurological signs, whether it's headache, loss of balance, nausea, you know, they've talked about tooth pain without any sort of dental problem, for example, anything, anything like that. I'm like, yeah, you probably should get evaluated. Yeah. I think that's reasonable advice. Yeah. I just can just imagine somebody was like, you know, a personal trainer, work with a client or whatever, and then bad luck, you know, happens and they, you know, rack the bar and they're like, oh man, I got a headache, man. Pretty, pretty gnarly. And like immediately my brain is like, well, does this person normally get headaches? If no, I'm very suspicious. And then if that person was like, oh, I can't really even stand bracing myself on the rack. I'm like, yeah, don't pass go to not collect $200. Probably EMS. Yeah. Let's get the rest of the session. Your gains will be fine. Let's get you to the emergency room. Yeah. Agree. Cool. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine mystery case. If you're watching this on YouTube, leave us a comment, like, let us know if you like this stuff. We'll probably keep doing it even if you don't, but you know, for the algorithm. And yeah, before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all these nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.

=== FILE: Two Doctors Audit the Peptide Market： BPC-157, MK-677, Retatrutide, CJC-1295, MOTS-c, and More! [1PFKLv__5G0].txt ===

 In 2006, a biotech firm called Conjikem thought they had discovered the holy grail of human performance. They had a compound that could elevate growth hormone for days with a single injection, but they abruptly shut the entire program down. Why? Because a healthy subject died of a heart attack. Now that drug was CJC-1295 and today, that exact same compound, it's being sold by the gallon on the internet to bio-hackers and 20-year-old lifters. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're doing a forensic audit of the entire peptide market. Now often billed to be safer and more effective than anabolic steroids, these compounds have been moving from underground forums and into mainstream longevity clinics. We've got to look past the height. Now our goal today isn't to dismiss peptides out of hand, but to apply the same standard we use for everything else. What does the human data actually show? Are the results meaningful or are we just looking at mechanisms in a Petri dish? And to help us separate the signal from the noise, I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. Now Austin, before we get into these specific molecules, we have to address why this topic is blowing up right now. In late 2023, the FDA essentially declared war on the peptide supply chain, moving dozens of popular compounds to a restricted list. Now there's a massive amount of confusion here regarding what is actually legal, what is banned, and what is just plain dangerous. So to set the stage, we need to distinguish between three different bodies, the DEA, the FDA, and WADA. Austin, can you break down the difference for listeners between a drug that's scheduled for criminal activity versus a drug being restricted by the FDA for safety? Yeah, I think a lot of the drugs that people think of as being quote-unquote illegal are in that list of what are called scheduled controlled substances. The DEA is kind of responsible for that. There is a kind of a tiered classification of one through five. And these relate to varying degrees of abuse potential addiction versus potential medical use and the degree of like monitoring that might be needed if somebody is to use some of these, depending on what level they're scheduled at. These are things on the extreme like heroin, for example. Even cocaine technically has some legitimate medical uses still today. Testosterone is unfortunately on this list. I don't really think it should be, but it is. Xanax definitely should be on this list. Opioids, things like that. These are things that, A, require a special DEA license, like one that I have to prescribe, you know, within certain restrictions and limitations and oversight regulation. But possession of these without a prescription is usually considered a crime. And now if you contrast that with a lot of these peptides, the DEA is not really paying attention to these at the moment. They're not scheduled. They're not on this list. There's not like a way that somebody with a DEA license can specifically prescribe you BPC or, you know, any one of these peptides. They're just not on that list at all. So what you're saying is that the DEA isn't kicking down your door for having BPC-157, but the FDA has effectively nuked the supply chain. In recent years, you could get these from compounding pharmacies. Doctors could write a script. The pharmacy would make it and all was above board. But in late 2023, the FDA moved many of their popular peptides like BPC-157 to Category 2 of the bulk drug substances list. Now Category 2 is the FDA basically saying we have reviewed this and we see significant safety risks or no proof that it works. So you're not really allowed to compound this for humans anymore. And for the athletes listening, drug testing is a third separate category. Yeah, we've talked about DEA, the medical prescription level that I tend to operate in that space. The FDA, which is even the bigger picture that has some authority outside of that DEA space as well. And then when it comes to sports drug testing, when we've talked about these organizations on the podcast before, WADA, like the World Anti-Doping Agency, and then each of its individual national affiliates like USADA, and these are also completely independent. They don't really care what the FDA has to say about anything. They also don't really care what the DEA has to say about anything. They have their own regulations and rules mainly oriented around performance advantages or potential for performance enhancement in sport. And so pretty much everything that we end up talking about today for the purposes of sport performance and drug testing in sports is going to be pretty much prohibited. They have a few different categorizations, S2 category, S0 category. The details of this are probably not super important for people to distinguish clearly, but there are differences, for example, among peptide hormones, growth factors, things like that versus things that are just straight up non-approved substances. And so this is something that you need to keep in mind if you are an athlete participating in a drug-tested sport, organization, federation, etc., because these peptides may well end up coming back to bite you. Yeah, I think people assume that if their doctor prescribed it or if they got it off a website and everything was legal, then that's automatically included. It's okay for sport, but that is definitively not the case. There's been a number of bands for these already. And while these manufacturers, particularly of the research chemicals, are trying to get sophisticated by changing the molecule a little bit so it's not detected, testing organizations, they're working on it to try to keep up with these individuals. The never-ending battle has been going on forever. We'll continue, I think. That's right. So to recap, the DEA mostly doesn't care about peptides. The FDA says that doctors and pharmacies can't really give it to you anymore for safety, and WADA says, well, we'll ban you for using it. So overall, proceed with caution. So we have this regulatory crackdown happening because the FDA is looking at the safety profile of these specific molecules. But that raises the most fundamental question, what actually defines a peptide? Now, if you scroll through social media or you look at these research chemical sites, the word peptide is used as a catch-all for basically anything that comes in a vial and can be bought with Bitcoin. But scientifically, that's not quite right. In pharmacology, we classify drugs based on their size and their complexity. Now, this isn't just a matter of semantics. It dictates whether you can swallow drugs as a pill or if you have to inject it. To understand why the FDA drew a bright line around these compounds, we need to look at where they sit on the molecular spectrum. Think of drugs like vessels in the ocean, small molecules like aspirin or their robotes. They're tough enough to survive the storm of your stomach acid and small enough to slip inside cells. Biologics like growth hormone are aircraft carriers. They are massive and they are complex. You cannot swallow an aircraft carrier. Your stomach would tear it apart. That is why these drugs mostly are injected. Now, peptides are the speedboats. They're in the middle. They're faster and more complex than robotes, but generally too fragile for the digestive tract. And actually, in 2020, the FDA established what's known as the Bright Line Rule. Basically, it says if a drug has 40 or fewer amino acids, it's legally considered a peptide. If it has 41 or more, it's a protein or a biologic. So, somaglutide, that's ozampic, agovia, etc., is 31 amino acids long. That is under the limit, so it's technically a peptide. You compare that to insulin. insulin is 51 amino acids long. That crosses this Bright Line. So, technically, insulin is a protein drug. Now, historically, speedboats were still too fragile for the stomach. So, if you ate a peptide drug, your body just recognized it as a protein and digested it into amino acids. It technically becomes expensive urine. But, Austin, I know people who have listened to our podcast before, they're going to be screaming either at their phone or their speaker. Well, what about rebelle cysts? That's oral somaglutide. How does that work here? Yeah, I mean, first of all, there's really no reason to scream, but we can address the oral somaglutide conundrum. And it really is an interesting exception, because by and large, to date, the approved GLP-1 receptor agonists and multi-agonists that we addressed in our last episode are pretty much all subcutaneous injectable drugs going way back to exanitide, on the raglutide, dulaglutide, et cetera, since then. But as the science has kind of progressed, the drug pharmacologic engineering has progressed. There's obviously been this somewhat holy grail of having an oral formulation of these medicines, because the thought is that there are some people who might be, you know, needlephobia or just prefer oral medicines, or potentially if we can formulate an oral medicine that works, it might be more convenient, more accessible, less expensive. There's various reasons to at least try to pursue this, whether or not it's to somebody's individual personal preference. And so for oral somaglutide, which is currently branded under ribelsis used for diabetes, it is kind of an exception here. They had to do some really fancy pharmacologic engineering that is way outside of either of our wheelhouse. They had to combine it with this, what's called an enhancer, known as a SNAC, SNAC. And that basically facilitates oral absorption of these peptides that would otherwise be digested. So it helps it kind of evade that breakdown in the stomach and ends up getting absorbed. Despite that, it still does not have great what we call oral bioavailability. And so that's why, for example, if you look at the milligram doses of oral somaglutide that are common used at the moment, it's dosed at 3, 7, or 14 milligrams. And it's being studied up to 50 milligrams. Well, if you combine that with the injectable versions that go into the skin, that starts at 0.25 milligrams with a max dose of around 2.4. And so there's almost like A-50-fold difference in absorption efficacy. And that's why you have to use such higher doses of the oral formulations to get it absorbed. It really is a pretty impressive feat of the pharmaceutical engineering. But there's some really fancy stuff that has to be done to turn that oral peptide into something that's absorbable and then delivers efficacy. And so this has implications if you think that some of these other types of peptides that you might be buying from wherever on the internet, how effectively, if they're orally delivered, how much you're actually absorbing, whether they're getting to where you want them to get to have the effect that you're looking for. Yeah, people are like, oh, I can get oral BPC-157. This is traditionally sold as like an injectable for subcutaneous administration. They're like, well, but this one's oral. I can just take it by mouth. And it's like, yeah, what are the odds that they, you know, have this likely proprietary, you know, pharmaceutical enhancer attached to it? Yeah, not so simple as taking an injectable medicine and then just like squirting it in your mouth instead. There's very relatively few drugs that work equivalently both ways. Now, just for the listeners at home in the hospital, does this distinction, you know, between a peptide and a protein actually change how you think about a drug safety or how it behaves in the body? Or is it mostly like a regulatory hurdle where you're like, well, it's classified as this and this is the administration, but I don't really think about this. Yeah, not really something that comes up in clinical decision making. I bet if you even ask most folks, you know, who are practicing clinicians who use all sorts of these drugs, they might not be able to confidently distinguish between which is technically a peptide and which is technically a protein. Now, as far as the biologics go, yes, in general, we know which ones are biologics. They're a whole separate class that we think about very differently most of the time because they're significantly impacting immunity. And so then, you know, I really want to know is my patient like immunosuppressed or immunocompromised, but outside of that, like the simple structural differences, not really something that's relevant outside of just knowing what is this drug? What are the potential benefits? What are the potential downsides? What do I need to think about when considering using it in a patient? But that's pretty much the extent of it. Yeah, that makes sense. Nobody's like, well, this has 51 amino acids, so this is the specific consideration for it. No, using insulin every single day and without a thought to its chain length. There you go. All right. Well, the compounds that we'll be talking today are either peptides, those are speedboats, or the small molecule drugs, those are the rowboats. But for ease of understanding, we'll collectively call them peptides, even though that's wrong and it will annoy Austin. He'll allow it. All right. So the excitement over peptides, though, for improved health and performance, to me, is understandable. So if peptides are these speedboats targeted and mid-sized, that leads us to the biggest selling point in the industry. The promise that while steroids are a shotgun, hitting the muscle, but also the prostate, the hairline, the hematocrit, peptides are billed as a sniper rifle. They claim to hit only the receptor you want without the systemic tax. But as we're about to see, that specificity is often more theoretical than reality. Austin, can you think of an example in medicine where something like this actually plays out? Yeah, tons of them, where we have differences in terms of the kind of specificity of our treatment and just a couple examples. So one has to do with what I actually just alluded to with the immune modifying drug. So prednisone, for example, or a glucocorticoid, is kind of like that shotgun analogy. It is about as potent of a, we'll call it, broad spectrum anti-inflammatory as we want. Most types of inflammation, not all, but most, it will tend to heavily suppress, particularly if you use high enough doses. But it has a lot of those off-target effects. That's why we really don't like having people on very high doses of prednisone or for very long periods of time, because it can impact the bones and body fat and muscle and blood sugar and your brain and your sleep and all sorts of different things. Fortunately, as time has gone on, we have developed a lot more specifically targeted immunomodulatory drugs to target specific elements of the immune system. So in contrast to that shotgun, for example, the anti-TNF drug. So for example, you know, Humira is one that many people in the audience might be familiar with, they might know somebody who is on these. There are, you know, even that one is getting a little bit older now. There are much newer, hotter ones that are targeting specific interleukin signaling pathways or others that are targeting just that specific signaling pathway and leaving everything else untouched. That doesn't mean that these don't have potential negative side effects or, you know, things like that. It's just mitigating and we're much more comfortable having patients on these long-term compared with something like prednisone long-term. Another even easier example for people to understand is the use of antibiotics. You know, on one hand, if I have somebody who comes in who's extremely ill and I have no idea what's going on, I'm probably going to just blast them with the broadest spectrum antibiotics that I can that kills kind of everything. And then the more information I get, I can target it more specifically to the organism that I have identified that I'm trying to kill. So there's that difference in the broader spectrum effects versus the more narrow targeted spectrum effects. And so there can be reasons to go in either direction that are perfectly valid in practice. And so I think here in the peptide space, you know, a lot of these are billed for having very specific targeted effects that people might be seeking. And of course, if you're comparing it with, oh, well, instead I went to my doctor and they wanted to put me on a course of prednisone or something like that for that. So yeah, that would be an attractive, you know, alternative to me too, because I would really try to avoid taking a medicine like that if I had any other feasible option that had efficacy. Yeah, especially, again, if there was a lot of evidence to support these very specific targets without any sort of unintended consequences. And so typically we call that like pleotropy, you know, but usually we're referring to that pot and as a positive setting. So for example, with like the GLP-1 receptor agonist, we're finding a lot of like unintended benefits. So it's like positive pleotropy, but it could also be negative. You know, in the case of maybe a peptide that like BPC-157, many people think, oh, well, it's whispering to the specific receptors on your tendons only to grow or remodel repair. But that might also be hitting a receptor on like a precancerous polyp in your colon that could be listening to the same frequency. And when that polyp here is grow, it doesn't ask for permission, it just grows. We just don't know that yet based on evidence. But pleotropy can be positive or negative with more extensive research, which is a nice segue into each peptide that we're going to discuss. And we're going to start off with the growth hormone agents. This is the first category. I'd like to call this an anabolic mirage. Now these are growth hormone secretogogs, meaning that they increase growth hormone release. They basically cause more growth hormone to be released. So we're going to start off with CJC-1295 and they're basically viewed as like a diet HGH or again HGH without the shutdown. They're marketed as the ultimate recovery tool to build muscle and lose fat by naturally boosting your body's growth hormone levels around the clock. Now the history of this particular peptide, it was developed in the early 2000s by Conjakem for HIV patients to treat lycodistrophy, which is abnormal fat distribution. So the mechanism action, you can think about your pituitary gland as a factory that ships out growth hormone in batches or pulses. Now there are two different versions of this. One is CJC-1295 with DACDAC. This is a manager who basically nails the doors open, creating a constant bleed of growth hormone into your system that can last for a week. Basically it's a long lasting version of this peptide. And then there's MODGRF, which is a manager who tells the factory to ship out a bigger batch right now. So two different versions of the same type of peptide. As far as the evidence based on this, human data confirms that this peptide raises both growth hormone and insulin like growth factor one or IGF one levels. However, the phase two clinical trial of this peptide was halted due to a patient death leading to its commercial abandonment. Now Austin, for the non-clinicians that are listening, can you explain the gravity of a trial being halted for a death? How does that differ from the typical side effects we see in an approved drug? Yeah, I think it is reflective of the pharmaceutical kind of testing system working in a way that we would like it to. In other words, they're generally going to be kind of risk averse and take these types of things very seriously when they happen. It does not automatically in all cases imply that, oh, the drug definitely killed this person. There's a lot of details that you'd have to sort out to try to what's called adjudicate that. You have to determine did this person just die. You could be enrolled in a trial and get hit by a car and die. That doesn't mean that they're going to halt the trial for it. But if there is a plausible potential mechanism, for example, if the patient presented very ill in acute liver failure after starting a new drug, it's like, well, that's actually a relatively common sort of thing that can happen on exposure to new medicines. And so this would need to be investigated and as I said adjudicated determined before we can make decisions about the ethics of proceeding with continuing the trial or with running additional trials in the future. This is why things like institutional review boards also exist to look over trials and have them planned out very ethically and carefully and cautiously so that when we have humans who are volunteering to be participants in a study, they're not volunteering for their own death. And so again, I don't want to blow this out of proportion right away and say, oh, definitely this will definitely kill you if you take it. But rather that it is a signal for something that we would hope doesn't happen in a clinical trial that deserves extra scrutiny. And so I'm not surprised that that happened. Yeah, when I when digging into this, the research group that was doing this phase two clinical trial was like, well, this person who died may have had like a preexisting heart condition, for example, maybe that was possible. But ultimately it was commercially abandoned. And so from there, there's been no real studies in humans. And there's absolutely no human data on performance, long term health, body fat management, lean body mass, anything like that. None. There's some known side effects that have been reported here. So the long lasting version or the bleed version, the one that contains DAC or is attached to DAC is highly prone to inducing some level of insulin resistance and joint pain, which we call arthralgist, which does not seem like a good trade off. That's those are expected things from constant, you know, exposure to growth hormone signaling. Those are those are not surprising effects. And so, you know, when you when you describe the mechanism of like, oh, we just want a constant bleed of growth hormone nonstop high levels for a week. I'm like, I don't think I want that. Yeah, because there's a lot of downsides to that, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So overall, this drug class, and this particular peptide, there's this kind of underlying assumption with these growth hormone promoting agents that, hey, if you raise growth hormone, that's generally good. But the data on even human growth hormone administration itself in folks who don't need it. So these are folks that are non deficient in human growth hormone. It's not very good, even when it's given at super physiological doses. Now, I know people follow bodybuilders and a lot of these individuals are taking growth hormone or something that would otherwise increase their growth hormone levels. But this has been studied. It doesn't seem to increase actual muscle mass. Lean body mass can go up, but mostly that's a lot of water and glycogen when studied here. It's not good for strength. Okay. It's not good for VO2 max. And so when, you know, from a kind of like predicting whether or not this is likely to be true, raising human growth hormone in and of itself does not seem to be like a very anabolic or like performance enhancing sort of mechanism to me. We know that fasting, for example, increases human growth hormone. Exercise itself increases human growth hormone. But these are mostly related to energy status rather than like, tell your muscles to grow or tell your body fat to decrease. Yeah, it just, I'm not really sold on like, we should try to be maximizing human growth hormone for this application. You wonder how popular it would be if it had been named something else from the beginning, or if it's the name that makes it, you know, growth, right? Yeah. Yeah, exactly. It has good branding. Yeah, exactly. All right, we're going to move on to the next agent. So that was CJC-1295. This is another growth hormone sort of stimulating product called Ipomaryllin. This is billed as the cleanest peptide for growth hormone. Proponents argue it is the only way to boost your growth hormone levels for better sleep and recovery without the hunger pangs, stress or water bloat associated with other peptides in this class. As far as the evidence on this, human data certainly confirms its selectivity and safety, but it failed its primary clinical endpoint of improving gut motility after surgery, which is why it was abandoned by pharma. And there's zero human data for muscle growth, body fat loss or other outcomes. As far as side effects go, it seems to be pretty safe. No spikes and cortisol prolactin or increase in hunger or anything like that. So it does seem to increase growth hormone in humans, but I'm not really sure, again, that that does anything. It's kind of like a mechanistic bet. Yeah, it increases growth hormone, but what does that do? We, it's just a, using a mechanism to predict an outcome that doesn't really seem to be there. Even when people are getting the actual thing, you're trying to increase, which is human growth hormone. And there's no long-term trials here. So I don't know. What do you think about this? Yeah, I don't think that either of us are volunteering to use this or to experiment with it ourselves. But for example, if we contrast it with the last example, this one certainly seems a lot more promising, even if it's just from the safety standpoint. And so, yeah, to be more confident with using something like this for performance enhancement or somebody was looking to do that, or if one of us was interested in something like that, we would certainly prefer to see compelling human evidence. And, you know, I think that the idea that we're going to get very long-term human trials on any of these things is super unlikely. And so you could probably just paint with a really broad brush and say, there's not long-term trials really in any of these. Even if you had a shorter-term human trial, that would be preferable to having none. And so that would ideally be the next step. And so I wouldn't be surprised given that, hey, this does seem to do what it is built at doing mechanistically at the receptor level and things like that. Seems like a promising agent that, you know, with the right incentive, somebody might study a little bit further to better characterize. Because if it does, in fact, even offer any advantages over giving actual human growth hormone, the recombinant type that might be used in patients with growth hormone deficiencies and things like that, then cool, then there's a clinical use for it. But not for us at this time. But I can see why people might gravitate toward it. Yeah, I think if there was a good signal that did something, then you would see it progress through the clinical trial phases to phase three, and then ultimately make it to market. And then you would have some long-term phase four observations here just to see, like, oh, look, people who have taken this drug for a year or two years, here's the outcomes. But yeah, I suspect that wouldn't happen unless there's some promising initial data. Unfortunately, it's been abandoned. Yeah. So CJC and IPA-Morlin are the injectable options, but the industry knew that if they wanted to reach the mass market, they're going to need a pill. That brings us to MK-677. This was the first drug designed to successfully bypass the needle while still hitting the growth hormone axis. This is billed as the ultimate oral mass builder. It's marketed as a pill that gives you the recovery of human growth hormone, plus a primal hunger that allows hard gainers to finally eat enough to get massive. So you can kind of think about this as a sustained hunger memetic, because it does bind to the ghrelin receptor. Now, if you remember, ghrelin tends to increase hunger, but when you stimulate this receptor, it also tends to increase growth hormone. So when you fast, for example, or you're between meals, your human growth hormone levels go up. That's just a kind of an energy balance-related signal. And so by stimulating this receptor, you also get an increase in growth hormone. So on the one side, this signal hits the hypothalamus to increase hunger. That's ghrelin's sort of one of its functions. On the other side, it also tells the pituitary gland to release large frequent pulses of human growth hormone. They basically balance each other out, though. So there's apparently no significant increase in fat mass. So you have more hunger going on, and people may consume more calories, but the increase in growth hormone does seem to prevent any additional weight gain. As far as the evidence on this, that's kind of what was found. There was a landmark one-year study in healthy seniors. 25 milligrams of this peptide, MK-677, increased IGF-1 levels by 60%, and lean body mass by about one kilo. Concerns about whether or not this was actually skeletal muscle mass, again, that's the problem. Lean body mass is not just muscle tissue. It's everything that's not fat. So that includes things like water, bone, visceral organ tissue, glycogen, et cetera. So not sure if this is really skeletal muscle tissue. And again, there was no increase in fat mass, like we said, despite the increase in appetite. And the reason why there was this concern that the lean mass increase wasn't actually muscle tissues, because there was zero improvement in strength, power, or physical function in these seniors. So the active muscle tissue, to me, was likely water and glycogen, or like bloat, rather than, quote, functional muscle. We see that in other studies on actual, like, human growth hormone and other agents in this class. So, yeah, to me, I think this, you know, agent, while it does avoid fat gain, which we would be against generally speaking, comes with a high metabolic tax. By constantly mimicking hunger and raising growth hormone, it forces the body into a state of physiological insulin resistance. In trials, participants saw a significant rise in fasting blood sugar and hemoglobin A1c. That's a measurement of how, what your blood sugar has been like over the past few months. It essentially trades the aesthetic problem of body fat for the clinical problem of prediabetes. Other common issues include severe, quote, moon face, which is like edema of the face, and again, joint pain, arthralgia. So, Austin, we're seeing these young adults and others taking this peptide for months at a time. If a patient shows up to your clinic or you have an online sort of consultation with them, and they've got a rising hemoglobin A1c, they've got a puffy face with edema from this peptide, how would you explain the long-term risk to someone who's only focused on scale weight? Yeah, I think while it might be tempting to just write off the bat, tell the person to stop, we know that that doesn't tend to work very well, and you might immediately ruin your report with the person, and they might never come back and see you again. And so, I would just, as I have talked about before with respect to behavior change and belief change, ask like, why are you taking this? Tell me your thought process, tell me your reasoning, tell me your goals, tell me how you got there, and then kind of what are they experiencing while they've been on it, and are there any downsides that they have experienced? And then from there, I might be able to tie in my concerns specifically that they're developing insulin resistance, which despite nearly whatever aesthetic effect that they might be enjoying, maybe, maybe not, that insulin resistance is something that is at the root of so many different diseases that are very common these days can lead to potentially devastating long-term complications ranging from stroke and heart attack to many other things as well. So, I would just elicit the person's beliefs and goals and then see if I could tie in my concerns and see if I can get them on board with the idea of, hey, maybe not the move here. Yeah, you're trying to basically build this therapeutic alliance with the person, so you can't ride out of the gate and say, yeah, not only does this thing not work, I have concerns about its safety, more so trying to figure out why do they believe what they believe, and then seeing if they're, like you mentioned so many times, are there any threads to pull on here? All right, the last compound in this anabolic mirage category, these are again, these are drugs that increase growth hormone, it's tessamorellin. Now, this is the only FDA approved drug in this list, it's for lipodistrophy or abnormal fat distribution in individuals with HIV. It's marketed as a targeted visceral fat assassin that specifically strips away the hard, dangerous fat around your organs and maybe reveal your six pack while improving your memory. So, a lot of interesting stuff that it claimed on Reddit, that's where I scrubbed for what claims are being made about these agents. As far as the history of this drug, it was developed by Thera Technologies and it was FDA approved in 2010. It was created again to treat HIV associated lipodistrophy. Patients on early antiretroviral therapies, those are medications used to treat HIV, they were developing accumulations of visceral fat, it's belly fat that couldn't be solved by diet and exercise alone. So, visceral fat cells, again, belly fat, they're incredibly sensitive to growth hormone. Tessamorellin stimulates a powerful, pulsatile release of growth hormone that appears to go straight to these belly fat reservoirs to burn them off. And there's good dehuman data on this. It successfully reduces visceral fat by 18% in HIV patients on average, but there was no weight loss. There was also  and also a phase two clinical trial for executive function in seniors, although these results were not conclusive, showing really no significant effects compared to placebo, but potentially something there. And again, there's no data on performance in other individuals, like if you're a healthy young person taking this, does it increase your lean body mass, does it decrease fat mass? We don't know. As far as the toxicity goes or side effect profile, it's well characterized. Joint pain is a potential sort of side effect and a relatively mild increase in blood sugar, so there's some concern there, but less than the other agents. So to summarize, this is an FDA-approved drug for reducing visceral fat. The problem that is most reported on Reddit for this particular agent is that it's very expensive. It's thousands of dollars a month for pharmaceutical options. However, many wellness clinics and in only 18 providers offer research chemicals or compounded versions that are around 200 to $600 a month. Interestingly, we have new medications that are actually better than this drug for reducing visceral fat, like terzepotide, Zepbound, Manjaro, even Osempic and Wegovi. They not only cause more weight loss, but and because they cause more weight loss, you get more reductions in belly fat on top of that. They're also cheaper, appear to be safer, and have more additional benefits than this particular agent. Yeah, I mean, there's the cardiovascular benefits, then the renal kidney related benefits, the liver health related benefits, and many others that are being characterized on an ongoing basis. So I'm kind of with you. This is not a drug while I'm aware of it. It's not one that I've ever had to use. And I think the main reason why is that that original indication that it has for HIV associated lipodystrophy is fortunately something that we see less and less of these days. Those original HIV drugs, mainly in the class of what are called protease inhibitors, they called this, cause this horrific metabolic dysfunction, insulin resistance, and visceral fat accumulation. Those drugs, we use less and less of these days because we have newer and much better, you know, agents to treat HIV that don't come with that negative side effect. There are still other drugs that can cause that type of dysfunction. Some of the drugs in the quote unquote, anti-psychotic class that are often used for various mood-related disorders and things like that can contribute to weight gain and visceral fat accumulation. So there's still kind of to some extent a need for being able to manage these things. But now we're, as you alluded to, studying, you know, the situation of, hey, this patient really needs a medicine like Olanzapine in this anti-psychotic class that can contribute to this. Okay. Well, if we treat them at the same time with a combination, say, of metformin and terzepotide or something like that, then we can, how much of that insulin resistance and visceral fat accumulation can we ameliorate while maybe even getting the benefits in other ways related to their mental health issues, to substance use, to heart, to kidneys, to liver, et cetera. So that would be my move if I was in this kind of situation. If I had a medical condition that was contributing to a ton of visceral fat accumulation, I'd be looking in those territories before I came to something like this. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. All right. Well, we're going to move on to the next category of peptides, this category I call the healers. We're going to start off with everyone's favorite, BPC-157. So the claims are that BPC-157 is the holy grail for injury rehab. The claims are that it can physically knit together torn tendons and ligaments in a fraction of the time, allowing athletes to bypass surgery and return to the platform or the competitive arena within weeks. This was isolated from human gastric juices. That's basically the stuff in your stomach by Croatian researchers in the 90s. It was named BPC as an acronym for body protective compound. As far as its mechanism of action, to the extent it's been characterized, you can think of BPC-157 as a fertilizer for blood vessels. One of the reasons that tendons heal slowly is because they have little blood flow, poor blood flow. And it's thought that BPC-157 forces the body to sprout new blood vessels, that's angiogenesis, into the injury site to bring in repair cells. There may be some modulation of the nitric oxide system as well, which can cause vasodilation to further increase blood flow to the area. Now, as far as the evidence on this, covered this on a previous podcast, I think it was episode 298. I'll link that in the show notes below. There is zero published human randomized controlled trial data for BPC-157, period. Zero published human randomized controlled trial data for BPC-157, period. And that includes sports injuries, that includes gut health, anything you want to say, there's no human data on this. Most of this miracle healing evidence comes from rats and from a single research group, the ones that discovered the peptide. There has been a small human pilot study on knee pain where basically this clinic that prescribed the drug called about a dozen individuals and said, hey, is your knee pain better? And then got an answer, yes or no. That's the only human study on this period. There were phase one and phase two clinical trials conducted for ulcerative colitis in the early 2000s, but the results were never published and development subsequently stalled. As far as like the, does this make sense, you know, yeah, sure. Tendons need more blood flow in order to repair and remodel and BPC-157 brings blood. However, the sheer breadth of the claims around this agent, it heals the brain, the gut, the bone, muscles, tendons, corneas. That's biologically suspicious to me. A drug that heals everything usually does so by overriding safety checkpoints like apoptosis, which raises long term safety questions. So, and on top of that, when I see something that does everything, I kind of initially think maybe it does nothing to be honest. What do you think about that? Yeah, that's I have a similar take when I see something touted for everything. It's, although the caveat is that is when we do not have clear evidence indicating that it does those things because somebody might hear you and then say, well, if I rewind like two minutes, I just heard you talk about GLP one receptor agonist helping with, you know, heart and liver and kidneys and neurologic stuff. And I think part of the difference is that there's a shared underlying mechanism of all of the conditions there that are being addressed oftentimes related to excess body fat and insulin resistance and some inflammation and things like that. And so by targeting that systemically, we're seeing benefits in multiple different organ systems. But most importantly, aside from all that mechanistic stuff is we have human randomized trial data showing that people die less. They have fewer heart attacks, they have less kidney failure, they have better outcomes with respect to fatty liver disease and things like that. So that we have that at least that we can point to. Here, if there's a lot of claims about it having significant, you know, health benefits in across all of these different systems, I'm open to the possibility that there is something there, but you kind of have to show me, you have to convince me and it requires more than just mechanistic kind of hand waving or speculation or saying it should do this or it should do that because the history of medicine is littered with things that we thought should do something beneficial and then either turned out to do nothing or in some cases actually did quite a lot of harm to people instead. And the other aspect of this that you mentioned, you know, some of the stuff that came to mind is like, oh, if it helps by increasing blood flow to tendons, there's a lot of ways to do that, right? It doesn't have to be this particular peptide. So if that's the only mechanism that you're promoting, I have some questions and I'd want to see like, okay, is it better than activity because that can increase blood flow. There are even people who use topical nitrates on tendinopathy. I have my skepticism about the use of topical nitrates for tendinopathy, but that's another way causes vasodilation increases blood flow, things like that as well. So we've come at this problem a bunch of different ways and so it's one where again, it's like, okay, well, if we can at least feel confident that there is safety here, then I'm open to the possibility of further exploration, but before I make confident claims or certainly before I recommend it and definitely before I prescribe it from a source of unclear quality, then I just want to feel better about that instead of hawking it over confidently with underdeveloped backing. Yeah, yeah, overall the safety in humans is unverified and that's even before we get into efficacy, but the FDA recently banned it from compounding, citing significant safety risks like immunogenicity. This effectively banned legitimate U.S. compounding pharmacies from creating it, pushing users to the black market, so like research chemical sites. So Austin, quickly, what is immunogenicity and why is that a concern? Immunogenicity is something we've talked about a couple times before. I think if people want to go back to our episode on exercise as it affects the immune system, this is probably from a couple years ago now, but immunogenicity refers to the ability of a substance, an antigen, a drug, an exposure, whatever the things that is stimulating to actually provoke an immune response in the human body. And so when the body recognizes something as foreign, again, it could be a drug, it could be a pathogen, it could be not a pathogen, but something you're allergic to, it could be even your own body if you have an autoimmune disease, then it produces antibodies and other kind of immune effectors against that thing. And so the more it kind of revs up your immune system, the more immunogenic we would describe it as being. And so, you know, in this situation, if you're injecting a peptide or a drug and that drug itself is immunogenic to itself, then you can generate antibodies to that very substance. And those can be binding, meaning that they bind the drug and can accelerate its clearance because the body says, look, this drug is now tagged with all these antibodies indicating that I need to get rid of this, or it could be neutralizing, where it doesn't necessarily bind it and accelerate its clearance, but rather prevents it from having the effect that it wants to have. And so if a drug or a substance that we're giving somebody itself is immunogenic, then we have concerns that it is going to be ineffective altogether or it might progressively lose its efficacy as the immune system learns to either prevent it from doing its thing or accelerating its clearance by way of antibodies or other immune mediated responses. Let me break down why the FDA is worried about immunogenicity. When you inject a synthetic peptide, your immune system might see it as an invader. It creates a most wanted poster for that protein. The danger is that this poster might look so much like your own natural proteins that your immune system starts attacking your own body by mistake. That is a permanent systemic risk that you do not want to take for slightly faster recovery. It's indicating that it does theoretical. I can already hear or envision the people who love this compound. They think it healed the rotator cuff. It healed their knee tendinopathy very quickly. They say, well, look, it works, and I don't care what you guys say. And it's like a lot of things improve pain, time improves pain, a lot of different placebo mediated things improve pain. And so just because it, quote, worked for you does not, we should not attribute that to the actual compound itself, especially if we're trying to make broad recommendations to individuals. I have serious concerns about that. Yeah, this has also been a recurring topic for us. I'm not here to argue with people's experience if they say it worked for them and they're willing to spend the money, take whatever risks there are. I've had patients who decided, hey, for one guy who I remember years ago decided, hey, he has bad enough shoulder osteoarthritis and he was willing to do pretty much anything except get a shoulder, you know, arthroplasty or a shoulder replacement. So he flew down to Central America and got like stem cell harvests done and then flew back a few months later and then got him injected back in his shoulder. And I'm like, okay, like there's going to be, I would expect a pretty significant placebo type response because of all the cost and expense and time and effort that went into that. But I also know of a lot of tropical and exotic infections that I see coming from patients in South and Central America as well just because that's, you know, something that happens in those parts of the world. Of course, we have our own too in North America and everywhere else has its own type of distribution of these things and complications and indeed, you know, spinal, epidural, steroid injections, various other types of joint injections over the years, stem cell injections have led to documented infectious complications and things like that as well from contamination or improper technique and things like that as well. If somebody says, hey, I'm fine with all those risks, those things are treatable on the back end, I'll survive it, whatever it's like, okay, then you are entitled to make those decisions. So, you know, once somebody is adequately informed on these things, I actually don't take like personal afferent if somebody decides to pursue something of their own volition. That's fine. I'm just here to be an advisor. Yep. Yeah, I like that. So to me, overall, BPC-157, it's wolverine that hasn't crossed the species barrier yet. The rodent data is spectacular, perhaps too spectacular and it's heavily concentrated from a single research group. The lack of human trials after 30 years of research to me is a massive red flag in addition to like sourcing it from a trusted place rather than research chemicals off a shady website. And the leap here is that this is an eyedrop drug that the individuals have decided to inject into a quad tear thinking it could work to repair their muscle fibers, but there's really no data to support this. It was isolated in 1981 and it is essential for how our cells move to repair wounds. So there's human data for surface wounds. So venous, stasis, and pressure ulcers, there's two phase two randomized controlled trials that found that topical gel accelerated healing by nearly a month in patients who received TB-500 compared to placebo. However, it did not always show a statistically significant difference in the total percentage of patients who achieved wound closure. It also failed phase two clinical trials to help cardiac regeneration after a heart attack in humans despite miraculous results in mice. There's zero human data for muscle tears in at all. As far as toxicity concerns, chronic use may carry a theoretical cancer risk as cancer cells hijack the same slippery mechanism to spread to other organs. We call that metastasis. So some theoretical risk there, but again, no data on it overall. To me, the data isn't awesome for humans outside of some eye conditions and maybe some surface wounds. Otherwise, it's unproven. It does share the same tragic fate as stem cell injections for joints, spectacular mechanistic hype and animal data, but generally not so impressive results in high quality human trials. And then there's another problem. TB-500 is a synthetic fragment of the full peptide, which is thymicin beta-4. That's what's been used in the clinical trials above, but the gray market primarily sells the fragment, TB-500. So we're seeing people take this fragment of a protein and assuming that it does the thing that the whole protein does. Austin, have we seen other instances in medicine where a small peptide fragment failed to live up to the parent molecules' reputation? I mean, biology is just really complicated. Proteins can get sliced and diced in all sorts of different ways, and that can lead to differences in the downstream function, again, depending on how these proteins get cut up. So in clinical practice, the things that I kind of see and use on a regular basis that have some variation, despite kind of a shared origin, are things, peptides in the body like BNP or brain type natuaryuridic peptide, on the NT-proBNP, which is kind of a cleaved variant of that. And then similar, another one has to do with the idea of pro insulin getting secreted and getting cleaved into insulin and then C-peptide as well, which are different things that do not share the identical effect, even if you might assume that they both indicate the same thing. They're going to have different levels, different interpretations, different clinical uses. And so, yeah, not a safe assumption to say that, hey, this tiny piece of the fuller protein is going to deliver the same clinical effects just because it's part of the bigger daddy molecule. Yeah, can you imagine if these research chemical sites, instead of selling insulin, they sold C-peptide and they're like, look, this will lower your blood sugar, way to optimize your nutrient partitioning. It's like, if you gave an individual diabetes a ton of C-peptide, it does nothing because it's not an active fragment. Yeah, I agree. All right, moving on to the next one is GHK-Cu, this copper peptide. Now, the claims here are that this is the ultimate biological reset for aging. Proponents argue that it restores the skin's youthful snap. It rescues hair follicles from dormant states like balding and acts as a software update for your genes, instructing cells to prioritize repair and collagen production, overscarring and decay. Man, Reddit's wild if they're making all these claims. I've never heard of this thing, so this is an education for me. All right, so this is isolated in 1973 by Dr. Lauren Pickart, who noticed that plasma from young donors made liver tissue from older donors behave as if it were decades younger. So you can think of this peptide GHK-Cu as a copper courier. Now, your body needs copper to build the structural scaffolding of your skin and hair, but free copper is toxic and hard to transport around the body. So this peptide acts like a specialized armored truck that picks up copper and delivers it directly to the cellular construction crews. As far as the data on this, human data for wound healing is pretty significant. A 2% topical gel significantly increased ulcer closure in 120 individuals with diabetes. For cosmetic skin quality, the data for wrinkles and skin rejuvenation is not quite as good. There's a trial of 71 women that showed there was increased skin density and thickness with use of this agent. But these studies are again small. They're short-term, less than 12 weeks, and rely on surrogate markers like ultrasound density or subjective grading scales rather than long-term dermatological outcomes, things that we can measure reliably. This is the same problem we saw with collagen supplementation. It's like skinny elasticity, and then you look at the actual test and you're like, oh, this test actually doesn't seem very good. Even though it improves the outcome of that test, does it actually improve how people look in some sort of way that we can reliably measure? As far as toxicity goes, it appears to be pretty safe when applied topically. When injected, it's notorious for a burning sensation at the site. Toxicity at typical doses is unverified, but theoretically could carry a risk of copper toxicity, I suppose. To summarize, I think this is probably fine as a topical agent for wound healing. The skin data I am not convinced on, and there's no human data for any sort of systemic performance improvement or recovery from injury. To me, it's kind of like vitamin C. We know that we need it for collagen production, and if you're deficient in it, that can hold things up. But mega-dosing, it doesn't seem to make it work any better and can in fact cause some harms. Yeah, interesting presentation that you put together on this one here so far. I would have certainly less concerns about somebody who wanted to use this compared to some of the other ones we've talked about so far, especially if it was isolated to topical use. I think anything systemic that you're injecting with essentially no or very limited human data, typically in most situations, it's going to carry a little bit greater potential risk. But yeah, this one seems more benign, I suppose. Yeah, especially if someone was doing it topically, I'd be limited amount of pushback, but injecting it, I'm like, are we sure that that's a good idea? But again, important not to break the therapeutic alliance. Yeah, I agree. Moving on to the next category, these are the metabolic modulators. Starting off with one of the hottest new drugs, it's likely to be approved soon. This is retachrotide. This may be the Godzilla of weight loss. It's presented as metabolic bariatric surgery in a vial, claiming to melt away nearly 30% of your body weight, not just by stopping your hunger, but by actively revving your metabolism like a furnace. So this is a triple agonist from Eli Lilly currently in phase three trials. They just wrapped up, I think, the Triumph study. The mechanism of action, it's similar to Manjaro, Zepbound, and that those are the two sort of agonists, the GLP-1 and the GIP agonist, but retachrotide as a third signal, which is glucagon. And this tells the liver to actively dump fat and burn calories for energy, really mostly heat in this case. So it addresses both sides of the calories in versus calories out equation. As far as the human data on this is pretty good. They just wrapped up Triumph 4, this showed an unprecedented 28.7% weight loss at 68 weeks. And this was for individuals with obesity and knee osteoarthritis. So in these individuals, yeah, the average weight loss was 28.7% up to 71 pounds at 68 weeks. And beyond just weight loss, it reduced knee pain as measured by the Womax scale by 76%, demonstrating that the weight loss and potentially other effects of the medication improved pain experience. By comparison, the placebo group only lost 2.1% of their body weight. Also has some interesting effects on metabolic associated sciatic liver disease, also known as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. They had a phase two trial on this and it showed a pretty impressive clearance of liver fat that had been accumulated. Over 85% of patients achieved complete resolution of the fat that was in their liver. That's defined as having less than 5% liver fat at 48 weeks, which we think is due to the glucagon receptor agonism that this drug adds. As far as the toxicity and side effect profile, unfortunately, there does seem to be a higher side effect profile, particularly at max doses. There was an 18% dropout rate in this latest trial, and it does seem to increase resting heart rate by about 5 beats per minute, which does require some monitoring. So there are some concerns there, particularly at max doses. To me, retachrotide represents a massive shift in how we approach fat loss. In the past, the only way we knew how to rev the engine was through stimulants like aphedra, which essentially dumped adrenaline to the system to force a higher heart rate and a higher metabolic rate to ultimately burn more calories. Now, retachrotide achieves a similar metabolic increase, but it does so through hormonal signaling, specifically through the glucagon receptor rather than the catecholamine dump. It is a more sophisticated way to turn up the furnace. And that's what makes retachrotide so different from the previous generations of anti-BC medications like ozampic or Zepbound. While older drugs mostly focused on slowing down the gut and telling the brain you're full, retachrotide is actively increasing energy expenditure through thermogenesis. It's essentially turning up the heat in the fat cells and the liver. Now, Austin, when you see a drug that is revving the engine this hard to clear liver fat, what are your primary concerns regarding cardiovascular stress in this population, if any at all? Yeah, I would say a few things. I share your enthusiasm and for this medication, I think it is, if we're calling it a peptide as part of this podcast, it is likely to be super effective and super beneficial for the population once it finishes up its trials and very likely ends up getting approved. I do not claim to be an expert on the mechanistic implications of glucagon receptor agonism outside of the more general descriptions that we've laid out here. I am more reluctant to characterize it as in any way meaningfully similar to ephedra. I think that that would spook more people off because any time in recent years with respect to GLP-1 conversations, these meds have come up, people say, oh, well, they remember what happened in the 90s, right? And it's like, look, we're in a different time now. We're not seeing the same signals in the data for these medications. And so when it comes to accelerating this or cardiovascular stress, quote, unquote, I have a few thoughts. You're right that a lot of these tend to raise resting heart rate by a little bit. They tend to actually lower, quote, unquote, heart rate variability by a little bit of, again, unclear real consequences. But those are things that we've noted. Now, if somebody is going to experience harm from that cardiovascular implication, I would expect that the people who are at highest cardiovascular risk at baseline, who are exposed to these medicines, are going to be the first to show that sort of harm, right? And the worst would be situations where people, for example, have significant heart failure, especially heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, where their heart is not functioning well, not pumping well. They don't really tend to tolerate cranking up their heart rate and various other sorts of things. And so in those populations, if we start to see signals of, oh, this is like they're dying more or getting hospitalized more, things like that, okay, then that is a signal that is worth paying attention to. Now, it might lead to, for example, saying that these meds shouldn't be used in that population. And we can study it a bit more in people who don't have heart failure, or those who have heart failure, but have preserved ejection fraction, or those who just have coronary disease, in whom many of these drugs have already been studied and actually show benefit, right? And so I'm reluctant at this time to summarize, to make any assumptions about cardiovascular implications outside of what the evidence shows us, because these are going to be studied on a very large scale in a lot of populations, many of whom either have diagnosed or underlying undiagnosed cardiovascular disease. And so it's going to be a situation where, well, we're just going to see what the outcomes are. It may end up being that the loss in body fat, improvement in insulin sensitivity, resolving diabetes, resolving fatty liver disease, maybe that outweighs any potential negative effects of a few beats per minute higher resting heart rate. I wouldn't be actually surprised at all if that ends up being the case. So it's a TBD in my mind. I don't have the same types of concerns at the start here, as I would have about the drugs that were being used in the 90s, or like somebody saying, I'm going to use dinitrophenol to try to accelerate my metabolism. That's a totally different category of accelerant. So I'm reluctant to kind of describe this in that way, just to not muddy the waters about how these drugs really work and the potential implications safety or efficacy wise. How familiar are you with the fen-fen saga? We've talked about it. We've talked about it before. That was actually identified relatively quickly at the time in terms of the negative side effects in valvular heart disease, pulmonary hypertension, things like that. Yeah, it's kind of interesting because fen-fen itself, so fen-termine and fen-fluramine, these were both agents that were approved in isolation and then subsequently paired together, off-label. So it was not like an FDA approved sort of thing, but effectively there was a single study that was published in the early 90s by an individual showing weight loss with this thing. That was early 90s, but it wasn't until later in 96 when a different patentable version of it called Redux got on the market. But there was concerns about valvular heart disease, pulmonary hypertension, stuff like that that were raised prior to being approved, but ultimately it got passed approval. And then as you mentioned, yeah, pretty shortly thereafter, they were like, no, this does cause problems. We can pull it from the market. So there was some regulatory issues there. But if you compare the amount of evidence that was available on fen-fen, the thing that wasn't really FDA approved, and then Redux, the thing that was FDA approved, if you compare the evidence we have on Pazempic, Ligovi, Zephbound, Manjaro, and even now Rattachrytide to what we had evidence-wise on that, it's overwhelming. Not even close. Yeah. It's not even close. Yeah. So people are like, well, look at the cautionary tale about fen-fen. I'm like, yeah, the cautionary tale is, wasn't really good evidence on it. And people were using it anyway, kind of like peptides. Yeah. And one of the nice things about these GLP-1 meds, including Reda, that's again, we're anticipating is coming out, is that there is a dose range, right? And people are different. And this has been my experience so far. I've worked with lots of people now on these medicines, and everybody responds kind of differently. And so to the extent that we're seeing maybe a little bit more side effects in some of the trials, that might mean that we adjust the dose range to achieve the intended effects. Some people do just fine on much lower doses, and we don't tend to see those things. And some people need to max it out to get the effect that we're looking for. And that's the beauty of it. You can kind of sliding scale it based on what people need. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Moving on into the same category, these metabolic modulators, we're moving to a zombie drug, AOD-9604. AOD stands for anti-obesity drug. Austin, you ever heard of this thing? I don't think so. No. Okay. Well, this was touted as the holy grail of fat loss about 30 years ago. Why are we still talking about it? Well, that's a great question. Yeah. If you look on Reddit, this is like a fat burning blade of human growth hormone with none of the metabolic baggage, like water retention, risk of diabetes, joint pain, etc. It's marketed as a fat melter that leaves the muscle untouched. And so this was developed in Australia in the late 90s as an obesity drug. And so the thought here is that this is a segment or a fraction of human growth hormone. It binds to fat cells to stimulate the breakdown of fat. We call that lipolysis, while ignoring other receptors that cause unwanted growth or metabolic damage. As far as the literature on this, human data confirms this drug is a proven failure. In a large 24-week trial of over 500 subjects, this particular drug failed to show statistically significant weight loss over placebo. While safety is pretty good for it based on these human trials, it doesn't seem to work. And so safe and useless is a pretty poor value proposition. I got a lot of things I can suggest to you that have the same effect. Yeah. And so I don't know why people are still using this or advocating for its use, particularly for weight loss, because there are so many better options that, again, safety profile is well-characterized, monitoring profile well-characterized, affects well-characterized, and oh, by the way, it actually works. Whereas this particular drug, we know that it doesn't work. Yeah. I'll do my favorite thing. I'll just put two graphs side by side. Put the 24-week weight loss data of this, just blinded, anonymized. You don't know what the drug, what the intervention is. Up against blinded, anonymized, you don't know what the drug is. 24-week weight loss data enters appetite. And you just get to pick. Pick which one you would rather take if your goal was weight loss. Would not be a contest. Yeah. So unclear why this is still being sold or why people are still blind.  linguparnutine, linguparnutine, linguparnutine, linguparnutine, linguparnutine, linguparnutine, people are like, oh, human growth will modify. I just need to affect that axis and I'm going to be great. If you're going to do that, again, we're very understanding of people's intense and their goals and things like that here. And if we're going to take a very harm reduction type perspective, it's like just go on Terzepetite and then just take testosterone. Yeah. Yeah. All right. We're moving on to MOTS-C. Have you ever heard of this? I have actually seen this acronym, but not something that I've investigated myself. Yeah. MOTS-C is billed as an exercise in a syringe. The claim is that it replicates the metabolic signals of a five mile run, forcing your body to burn fat, improve insulin sensitivity, and build endurance, even if you spend the day sitting on a couch. Now, the biohacking community is obsessed with this being an exercise mimetic. Austin, I hope you'll understand the difference between the body producing a signaling molecule naturally during a five mile run versus injecting a massive bolus of it into a otherwise sedentary body. Does the context of the signal matter? Oh my gosh. My brain goes so many different places when I hear this question. We've talked a lot about the idea of kind of a, it matters how you got there. When we talk about blood pressure, for example, it's like, oh, did your blood pressure go up because you have hypertension or did it go up because you're actively exercising? The same with a lot of other things. When it comes to dietary fiber, did the fiber come in the form of an isolated fiber supplement or did it come in the form of a persistent, chronic, high fiber, whole food dietary pattern does have fundamentally different effects? If the body produces a particular signal in response to exercise, especially with the demands of exercise, then if you take that same molecule and inject it in separately, does it deliver all the same benefits when it is given, when there was no demand present in the first place? Kind of reminds me of when we talk about heart rate. Does getting your heart rate up from a panic attack give you the same cardiovascular aerobic adaptations as actually doing the thing that demanded the heart rate increase? All of these things, the context fundamentally differentiates the downstream health impacts that we can expect. That's not to say that there can be no plausible or potential benefit from an isolated molecular signal like this. Again, I remain open to the possibility, pending human data showing it to me, but I will always have a baseline degree of kind of like my prior will be a low probability of at least the same benefits as you would expect from exercise because again, the context, the demand, things like that are different. If there's a partial effect, maybe that partial effect is worthwhile if it can be shown because there are some people who maybe are physically unable to meet current physical activity guidelines. And so if you can get them at least part of the way there, great, fantastic, it's a tool, right? We are not like moralizing around the use of these tools just like with respect to GOP1 receptor agonist when it comes to treating obesity. So show me the effect and then I will kind of put it in context and judge its potential uses. Tell me what you think about this analogy. We talk about like fiber intake, for example, we're eating fruits and vegetables. We talk about this food matrix effect in that it's not just the fiber that's delivered by the fruits or vegetable, but it also co-occurs with flavonoids, you know, polyphenols, et cetera. There's more than just the fiber. The food is greater than the sum of its parts. What about an exercise matrix effect? You're getting like one thing, one aspect of it, but you don't have the entire symphony that you experienced from exercise. You're just getting one instrument, one molecule instead of the whole band. Is that kinda? Exactly, that's it. All right, so this was discovered in 2015 and at the time it was a breakthrough because it was encoded by the mitochondrial DNA, the powerhouse of the cell rather than the cell's main nucleus. So what it does, what it's supposed to do is when your mitochondria are drained by stress or exercise, the MOTC tells the rest of the cell to turn on power-save mode. In the body, this power-save mode means activating amkinease, which forces the cell to stop building new stuff and start burning fat and sugar for fuel. Now, as far as the evidence, we don't have any on humans. We know that humans produce this naturally during a workout, but no study has ever shown that injecting it into a human improves fitness. The bottom line on MOTC is that while the rodent data on strength and endurance, it looks incredible, we simply don't know if that translates to a human being. We are seeing a 12-fold increase in natural MOTC during exercise, but injecting a synthetic version into an otherwise sedentary human is a completely different biological event. Until we see human trials, it's pretty much pure speculation. We don't know if it works. I'm pretty skeptical on this right now. We need some human data, especially on safety and side-effect profile first, and then we need efficacy data. And then afterwards, if it passes all that, then I suspect this would be a blockbuster, if true. Yeah, I think that's a helpful paradigm for people to think about when approaching the potential use of these things. First, is it appear to be safe? Second, does it appear to do the thing that it's being claimed to do? And then you get to weigh those things on the back end and decide if it's worthwhile for you in terms of cost and access and all sorts of other things. But we are at the very early stages of that journey, it seems here. And I'm not sensing that there's an overwhelming amount of active research happening that we're expecting at any time soon. That's what I'm saying. We would have heard about it. Yeah, exactly. There's been a lot of these kind of exercise mimics that have been hyped over the years, and none of them have really panned out. Cool, yeah. All right, moving on to five amino one MQ. Now on social media and Reddit, this is being sold as a fix to a broken metabolism. The claim is that it prevents your metabolic rate from slowing down as you age by inhibiting an enzyme called NNMT. Now mechanistically, by blocking that enzyme, five amino one MQ indirectly raises NAD plus levels, specifically within your fat cells. The theory is that this shifts the cell from a fat storing mode into a fat burning mode. And in mouse studies, the results were pretty impressive. There was a 30% reduction in body fat and even some increases in muscle strength. But when we look at how five amino one MQ actually works in these mouse models, it's not just about shrinking the number on the scale. In fact, it actually targets the fat cell size itself. Now by inhibiting that NNMT enzyme, it prevents the hypertrophy or the overexpansion of individual fat cells. So again, in these studies, the mice saw a 30% reduction in total body fat. But here's the kicker, they did this while staying on a high fat diet and without exercising. And I think this is why the biohacking community is so obsessed with this agent. They see it as a potential exercise in a pill. However, there's currently zero published human clinical trial data for five amino one MQ. We don't know the safety profile and we certainly don't know if those fat loss results translate to humans in the real world. I think though we have to be realistic. A mouse in a controlled lab environment is not a human living in the real world. This goes back to that NAD plus correlation we see with NNMN and NR supplementation. Just because you can force a fat cell to behave differently in a rodent, doesn't mean that you'll see a meaningful safe change in human body composition without addressing major lifestyle change. Austin, this is exactly why the longevity space is so cluttered right now. We have these incredible mechanistic stories about NAD plus and fat cell metabolism, but the human data isn't just there yet. Yeah, the NR NNMN supplementation space is a big one in like anti-aging circles and longevity circles and things like that. And my current understanding is that it has not been proven or shown effective enough at this point in order for me to actually spend the time to learn about it in great detail. Right, if it does not seem to be that potent of an effect for good things that we're looking for in a safe way, then I'm at this point not gonna bother. Too busy dealing with actual things that work. So that's my bridge. Yeah, there you go. All right, moving on to the lifestyle drugs. We have Melanotan-2 and PT-141. Now these are often called Barbie drugs because they affect tanning, appetite and libido. Now both molecules work on the melanocortin system in the brain, which acts like a master control panel for survival. They just have very different levels of precision. Melanotan-2 is a non-selective agonist. It hits the tanning receptors, the appetite suppression receptors and the arousal receptors all at once. The problem is that it also carries a significant side effect profile, including intense nausea and documented case reports of rabdomyolysis and kidney failure. By contrast, PT-141, which is also known as bromelanotide, it's a much more selective agonist. It's designed to target the receptors specifically associated with libido and sexual arousal while leaving the tanning and the stress signals alone. In fact, PT-141 is actually an FDA approved medication for hypoactive sexual desire disorder in women. And it's often used off-label for men who don't respond well to traditional PD-5 inhibitors like biogasialis. So it's a legitimate pharmaceutical with a much better characterized safety profile than the research chemicals people are buying online. As far as the toxicity side effect profile, main thing here is nausea with PT-141. It has a 40% rate of nausea. Because it acts on the brain, some men report spontaneous erections that occur without physical stimulation, which can last several hours, but are generally not classified as pre-epism, which don't Google how to treat pre-epism. Yeah, spare yourself. Spare yourself. As far as melanotan-2, this appears to have a more significant side effect profile. Case reports of muscle breakdown like rabdomyolysis and kidney failure. So to summarize, I think melanotan-2 may be effective for tanning, but lack safety data and has more red flags than DNP. That infamous often fatal fat burner we did a mystery case on. PT-141 seems to be pretty proven for sexual health, but the nausea side effect is probably what's limited for being like a blockbuster barbie drug or a lifestyle drug. Austin, in clinical practice, when a drug has that high of a side effect burden, like with the nausea, for a quality of life issue like libido, how do you approach the informed consent conversation with the patient? Yeah, tons of this involves a conversation with the person about what their goals are and how far they're willing to go to achieve those goals. And so if they are at their wit's end and looking for something to help with this particular issue, then that may be a risk that they're willing to accept. I would say a couple of things, though, even as part of that conversation, because it's difficult for me to imagine that, oh, I'm taking a drug to really crank up my libido, and then if it's going to make me throw up, that that's going to be the thing that keeps me in the mood. And so that conversation would involve a couple things. One has to do with dosing, because many medicines might have a high incidence of GI-related side effects. It could be a dose response type effect. It could be something that requires a little bit of adaptation to get over that hump. That's actually something that we're seeing with many patients who take GLP-1 receptor agonist. Nausea is the most common upfront side effect that they take, whether at the starter dose or with dose escalations. Sometimes that takes a little bit of time to get used to. Sometimes we use some anti-nausea medicines at the same time as the medicine or the dose escalation to try to mitigate that. And then in this context, where it's probably, I would imagine, something that has a time component to it, you take it in a particular context, maybe trying it not when you're getting ready, so that you don't learn for the first time, whether you're in the 40% or not. So starting a low dose separately as a tester might be a way to go. But that would be how I would approach this in practice. It's like, how far are you willing to go? What are you willing to risk if you're willing to experience some nausea, and then testing it out at a low dose separately? And then you can introduce it in the right context to see if it helps you. Yeah, that's a good clinical pearl there. All right, so let's summarize this. This is a little if-then sort of discussion. So with respect to peptides, if you want more muscle mass, more muscle hypertrophy, I think that peptides right now are a bad trade. Have not seen an agent with good evidence for improving actual muscle tissue and subsequent performance, strength, power, et cetera. So I don't think that that would be a good option to use to gain muscle mass. You mentioned it earlier, you're like, look, if you want to get some of these benefits, just take Terzepetide and testosterone. It's like, look, we have way more data on anabolic steroids as far as not only on their efficacy, but also safety and monitoring. And so I think the thought is that, oh, peptides are way safer. One, and then two, people can get them without having to go through as backdoor of channels, like Vinnie at the Golds Gym down the street doesn't have to give you vials in a dark corner or dark alley. So, but I'm not telling anybody to take anabolic steroids. I'm just saying that when I look at the sort of evidence on this, I'm like, well, I know those things work, and I know what to monitor, and I just more well characterized. I'm like, it seems like a better option, to be honest. Yeah, I agree, that's it. I have the same take. I'm not going around recommending it, but if I have somebody in front of me who's like, look, I'm gonna take something. What's it gonna be? I'm gonna take the thing we know more about, and that I know how to monitor, than the thing we don't. Yeah, for injury, again, with respect to peptides, there seems to be some non-zero risk, whether it's high risk, moderate risk, low risk, we just don't know, because the data is kind of absent, but the reward is even more unknown. So I don't think I can recommend using BPC-157 or TV-500. I have concerns about their mechanisms, and just, again, lack of human data for safety, efficacy, monitoring. Everything's anecdotal, right? So that's a problem. And then without any real efficacy data, just seems like a bad trade-off. I would try to optimize load management instead. It seems like a much more successful and less risky proposition. Yeah, to an extent, I mean, both of us have had our share of injuries participating in all sorts of different sports, and we've been fortunate to be able to rehab, essentially, all of them to this point. That is not to say that that is gonna be the case for everyone in all circumstances of musculoskeletal injury. And so, I totally understand where your mind can go when you're in the depth, especially of severe pain or persistent pain that is difficult to rehab. You're willing to try a whole lot of things. This would not be very high on my list of things to try, especially early on, be way far down that list. And even then, I have my concerns about it at this point. I wish somebody would, I just see so many people on these podcasts, people who claim that they run clinics and are seeing all these people that are having miraculous results, and it's like, would it be so difficult, so, so difficult to even a small pilot, you know, placebo-controlled trial? Like, it would set, you would be the leader of the field automatically if you just ran one of these things, right? But instead, you know, there are obviously quite lucrative practices that are doling this stuff out. Well, I would say this stuff, but whatever it is, because again, the purity aspect and things like that remains in question when it's being formulated in the way that it is, but you know, you would be immediately at the forefront of this field if you were able to just document these data, show these results, right? We see this in a lot of, again, I don't wanna like, lump these in with like all folks in the quack space, but even, you know, during pandemic times, there was all sorts of claims about cures for, you know, infections, and now there's still people on the internet talking about the use of some of these drugs to cure cancer, and it's like, look, if you're curing all these cancers, if you're curing Parkinson's disease with febendazole and stuff like that that I see on the internet, I'm like, just document it, you would, again, revolutionize all of medicine because of how common these conditions are. It would not be that difficult if the effects are as large as you say, you actually don't need a very large sample size. You don't even need a very long study duration. Like it would be trivially easy to show with the sizes of effects that you're claiming. Big if true. Big, very, very big if true. And so that's what we would, you know, prefer to see, but we don't, not yet. All right, so we talked about building muscle and strength. We talked about what happens if you're injured, and then now if you want fat loss and you're in the mep market for peptides, don't buy the zombie. Like AOD, 9604, failed clinical trials, and so I think we would both agree, and we've talked about this so many times on the podcast, but if you're an individual who would benefit from one of these anti-VC medications, whether it's somaglutide, tersepitide, and potentially a retachricide when it's approved, there are many avenues for you to obtain this in a way that is not only safe, you know what you're getting, somebody's monitoring you appropriately, but also these things actually work. So like we would recommend that, probably not a DIY situation, although this is an interesting question maybe. We know that fortunately the prices on these medications are coming down, right? And so while there's some controversy around compounding pharmacies who continue to make these, even though against the FDA's sort of ruling on this, what do you think about, and there's like pharmaceutical grade versus compounding pharmacy versus research chemical? Do you think there's more risk than benefit for individuals using a research chemical, like somaglutide compared to like getting the ozampic or the wigovi? Yes, I think the spectrum follows exactly what you described. If I had my druthers to use one of your sayings, that would be my order of preference if I had to choose. And I see no scenario where I am personally willing to take any sort of research chemical. It's gonna be pharmaceutical grade. And then in very rare situations, would I be pursuing compounding? And there'd have to be a good reason or justification for it. And there are very legitimate valid reasons to use compounding pharmacies for all sorts of things, whether due to dose adjustments or due to certain medicines the way they're formulated, might contain something that somebody is intolerant of or allergic to. There's all sorts of reasons to do that kind of thing, but research grade, yeah, I can't get behind that for a gen pop. Yeah, I think that just highlighted a very important takeaway here. We would both recommend pharmaceutical grade stuff. You know what you're getting. The manufacturing standards are much higher. The amount of financial resources to make sure that you have pure and materials to start with and end with and testing along the way. All of that is well-established procedurally. You don't have that in research chemicals. And interestingly, I don't know if you pulled the study a while ago or if I did, but I remembered it and I instantly went to the right one. So there was some third-party testing done of research chemicals in the selective androgen receptor modulator space, so SARMs. And of the 44 tested products, no active compound was detected in four of the substances. Substances not listed on the label were contained in 11 of the compounds tested and only 18 of the 44 products actually had what they said that was on the label in the thing. That's kind of terrifying. I mean, to somebody who is not in this space or thinking about these kind of things regularly, like I'm imagining, hey, I have a patient with uncontrolled diabetes in front of me or like they're in diabetic ketoacidosis and I want to prescribe them some insulin to save their life as I do very frequently. If less than half of the patients to whom I prescribed that actually ended up getting any degree of the actual drug in their prescription, that would be bad. That would be quite concerning. And so obviously we're not, in this context, dealing with such acute potential risks like the person's likely to die on the matter of hours if they don't get the thing that I want them to get. But on a longer time span, you could end up with a similar type of thing whether due to contamination, impurity, or if you think you're treating something that you're actually not treating. So it's kind of a scary stat to see the percentages of like, hey, almost 10% had none of the compound at all. And then a bunch, a quarter had a bunch of stuff that wasn't on the label. That's super concerning. And then only a tiny fraction had any degree of what it said it had. That's not acceptable in my opinion and not a risk I'd be willing to take personally. Yeah, and that's just the active compound. Right? And bring up heavy metal testing, for example, lead, arsenic, cadmium, mercury. Imagine the cost for high performance liquid chromatography to make sure that it's not in there and to scrub the product of any residual agents for research chemical manufacture. Yeah. Yeah, where's the FDA? We don't know. All right, so Austin, to bring this home, if you had to give a clinical pearl to the person who's currently staring at a vial of a research chemical they bought with Bitcoin, what is the one question they aren't asking themselves that they should be? There are a lot of questions they should be asking, but I think if you had to ask one upfront is like, what else could this thing be doing to me besides what I hope it is doing to me? And how many of those potential, kind of what we'll call off target effects, am I willing to accept in this kind of really gray area of not even medicine, whatever this is? Yeah, there are no biological free lunches. So that does wrap up our deep dive into the world of peptides as we have discussed today. The gap between the marketing hype and the actual clinical evidence is currently a canyon. While the biochemistry of these molecules is fascinating, the reality is that the gray market carries significant risks from impure manufacturing to unknown long-term effects on your endocrine and immune systems. We're not trying to be anti-technology, but instead we want to be pro-evidence. And right now the evidence suggests that most of these agents remain unproven for how they're being used. If you found this episode helpful, please leave us a five-star review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.!

=== FILE: Two Minute Tuesday： Resistance Training for Injury Risk Reduction in Endurance Athletes [mA8U-otQlp8].txt ===

Hey everyone, welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel where we bring modern medicine to strengthen conditioning, a strength of conditioning to modern medicine, I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Fyginbob, and this is a two minute Tuesday. We haven't done one of these in a while. We have a very special article series and we just released the first part of it. This is by Dr. Derek Miles and he's got input from Dr. Austin Baraki, Dr. Michael Ray, and a handful of other professionals. This stuff is really good. We're going to talk about resistance trening for endurance athletes. Part one is all about injury risk reduction using resistance trening. This is a very cool topic. Hopefully I can incentivize you to read the long form article. I've put the link in the description below and I can give you some take home pearls that will be useful to you. Let's take a few minutes and talk about reducing injury risk using resistance trening in endurance athletes. To begin the prevalence of injuries in endurance athletes is pretty high between 20 and about 80%. When we look at why injury rates are so high in this group, we should turn to the literature again. A recent systematic review demonstrated little correlation between biomechanical risk factors and injury. Now, the most common subgroup of endurance athletes to be injured are novices with about 17.8 injuries per thousand participation hours compared to more seasoned runners, which have about 7.7 injuries per thousand participation hours. The biggest risk factor for why novices tend to have more injuries than seasoned runners is due to a treninGHistory that is they don't really have this base of trening that they've built up over time that they get to add stress to. The biggest predictor actually of injury risk in this population is the history of having an injury, which is unfortunate because that's a non-modifiable risk factor if you've had an injury before. Can't really go back and eliminate that. That being said, another big predictor of injury risk in this population would be lack of appropriate prior trening and a rapid increase in workload. We see the same thing in resistance trening. Now that we've talked about the prevalence and the risk factors for developing an injury, let's talk about some specific ones and see if there's anything we can do in order to prevent these. So first, let's talk about Patelofemeral Paincinder. Also known as runners, knee. It's one of the most common kinds of knee pain. Usually characterized by pain around the knee cap or under the knee cap, not lateralized to one side or another. Another common injury will be tendonopathy is this refers to a continuum of tendon changes that are all related to collagen. Including disruption, inflammation, and cellular responses. Next type of injury would be hamstring strens and this is usually due to high velocity running or occurs in the context of sprinting things like that. The next injury after that, it's very common in this endurance population would be bone stress injuries like shin splints or medial tibial stress syndrome and stress fractures. These tend to happen on a continuum in response to the bones inability to handle repetitive mechanical loading, which ultimately leads to structural fatigue. And overall, the data suggests that 50 to 75% of running related injuries are related to overuse. I.e. an increase in trening stress that occurs to rapidly and the majority of these occur in the lower extremity around the knee, which again, if you think about what we just talked about, Patelofemeral Paincinder, tendonopathy, hamstring strens, bone stress injuries, particularly of the lower extremity. These are all again around the knee. As far as treatments at present, we have evidence on stretching, eccentric exercise, and heavy slow resistance trening, which is effectively weightlifting. And we can talk about each one of those with respect to reducing injury risk in runners specifically. So let's talk about stretching first. And I know what you're thinking, Barbo Medicine, talking about stretching, it's not what you think. Right now, the most current, a cochlear review on interventions for preventing running related injuries. This is from 2011. Success that stretching, in fact, does not reduce the risk of injuries. Another systematic review of this topic from Laurason in 2014 suggested that stretching is not an effective way of reducing injury risk in runners. And also, that if they were to resistance trening, instead, that reduced all injuries by a third and overuse injuries by a half. So potentially big improvement in injury risk reduction with resistance trening. That being said, resistance trening is fairly uncommon amongst endurance athletes. We look at the data from the National High School Stress Fracture Registry, suggest that 58% of these high school athletes didn't engage in any form of resistance trening at all. And that's in the athletic population. In the general population, we see that 2018 physical activity guidelines for adults actually recommend resistance trening for all adult Americans, at least twice per week. However, based on 2017 data from the National Health Interview Survey, only 23 and a half percent of all Americans are actually meeting this minimum guidelines. Those who do, however, have a 23% reduction in all cause mortality. So obviously, there's a huge benefit for engaging in resistance trening in both athletic and the general population. However, it's likely being underutilized and even underdosed in both populations. Now that we've discussed some of these common injuries in runners, let's see how resistance trening can actually reduce injury risk in this population. So for a Patelofemeral Pain Syndrome, remember that was the pain that is around the knee and under the kneecap. The most recent Cochrane Review for treatment of Patelofemeral Pain Syndrome showed that exercise therapy had consistent results for improving functional ability and reducing pain. For hamstring sprains, again, remember this occurs in the context, usually of high velocity running or sprinting. It's typically thought to be due to lack of hamstring e-centric strength. And so one way to develop that is by using the Nordic hamstring curl. Now, you guys may have noticed that I actually have made a Nordic hamstring video how to. That's because I'll rehab professionals and our coaches wanted a resource that they could use for their clients instead of referring people all over the internet. Put a link to that video in the description below so you guys can check that out. We actually have a lot of data on the Nordic hamstring curl as far as prevention of injury and we can calculate what's called a number needed to treat. Now, a number needed to treat effectively stands for how many people do you need to give the intervention to prevent the outcome that you're studying. And so the number needed to treat for the Nordic hamstring curl is three, meaning that you need to treaT3 people to do the Nordic hamstring protocol to prevent one hamstring stren. And this is really good for a lifestyle intervention number needed to treat standpoint. So if you consider the Mediterranean diet at preventing cardiovascular disease, the number needed to treat for that intervention is 61. And we'recomparing that to three for the Nordic hamstring curl. So again, a lot of data, a lot of good potential benefits from improving the eccentric strength of the hamstrings with respect to decreasinGHamstring sprain incidence. So the next injury we'll talk about would be bone stress injuries. This would be the stress fractures and the shin splints and similar injuries that we talked about earlier. So the data suggests that endurance athletes tend to have lower bone mineral densities as measured by dexascant compared to their peers who play other sports. And resistance treninGHas been shown to increase bone mineral density. And this is one of the most potent interventions we can give people to actually build up their bone mineral density while they're younger, so that fractures and other issues stemming from low bone mineral density and old age don't crop up. The last thing we'll talk about from an injury perspective would be low back pain. Surle at al analyzed interventions for treatment of low back pain and found support for recommending strengthening exercises for the treatment of low back pain. However, this doesn't mean that having a stronger low back or bigger back muscles actually prevents low back pain. Rather, the actual engagement in resistance trening is a good treatment for people who have low back pain to not only get them back to function but also decrease their low back pain. So now that we've talked about the prevalence of injury rates in endurance trening, a few common ones and how resistance trening can help, what about the risk of resistance trening overall? Isn't it dangerous just to lift weights? So one of the best studies on this is from 2016, a systematic review by Q at al found that for most weight trening sports, the average injury rate was about one to two injuries per athlete per year or two to four injuries per thousand participation hours. And this included things like bodybuilding, power lifting, weight lifting, strongman, highling games and even crossfit, although it is true that strongman and highland games tend to have higher injury rates. Somewhere in that five to six injuries per thousand participation hours. And when you compare that to the injury rates from recreational walking and cycling to work, which can reach as high as 1.5 injuries per thousand participation hours, maybe we should be more concerned about the risk of injury from not resistance trening, than the actual risk of injury from resistance trening. I think that resistance trening offers a very potent intervention that is underutilized and again, underdosed likely in both the general and athletic populations. So hopefully I've convinced you to go read the long form article over on the boardalmedicine.com website. I've put the link in the description below. And if you like the video, make sure you hit subscribe for all the latest content. Leave us a comment below, share it with your friends. We'll see you guys next time. Later.

=== FILE: What Types of Meat Are Good Sources of Protein？ [mAw4iZpb4aA].txt ===

Red meat, chicken, fish, or all frequently cited when discussing diet, what about pork or other poultry? Yeah, what about them? This is a kosher establishment, okay? We don't talk about pork. No. So, in general, with respect to red meat, sort of talk about pork, veal, obviously beef. There's actually a pretty expanded topic that includes, or expanded category that all includes those foods and others for red meat. With respect to chicken, fish, other lean protein sources, I'm cool with all of them. There's not really a lean protein source that I'm not like willing to give you the thumbs up on. My, the caveat that I'll give you is that for red meat, which again includes this sort of veal, beef, pork, uh, awful, is it awful? awful? Well, I'm sure. Yeah, whatever. All that stuff, I would recommend limiting that to three times per week, just based on the current guidelines for red meat intake, and we discussed that thoroughly in the article, The Science of Red Meat intake. So effectively, it'd be difficult to eat more red meat than that, more often, and also stay out of that 10% of total daily calories from saturated fat, uh, recommendation that we think is actually important. Okay? And if you want more information on that, read the science of red meat intake article, we go into the, into the weeds there on that stuff. Anything else? I don't think so. What's your favorite protein? IMean, there's only one answer. What do you want me to say, chicken? No, that's for all the answer. Let's stay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So mine's bacon. Okay. This is not a kosher challenge. I'm gonna do it. I forgot to.

=== FILE: What is Barbell Medicine？ [YDCQNMGElU8].txt ===

We have three different types of product offerings right now. We have a new one now from a self-improvement standpoint. We have a very good one. The final newest offering we have is a vegan protein. I am actually one of Barbell medicines first online clients. Through that coaching process went from just havinGHad rotator cuff surgery to then becoming a competitive power lifter in the process. People come to us from all walks of life with all sorts of background experiences, with all sorts of problems. It ends up being a collaboration between client and coach to optimize their long-term kind of health and performance outcomes. On our team we have a great group of folks. We have myself, Austin Baraki, Lea Lutz, Joe Pemortins, Alno Strelia, Alan Thraw, Tom Campatelli, Hassan, Alex, Michael Ray, Derek Miles, Jess Griffith, Vanessa Berman. It's just a great group of people with a wide variety of different backgrounds and we're all working together to help you achieve your goals.

=== FILE: What type of ab work is recommended？ [yeafa2KVFfA].txt ===

All right. Suggestions for ISO metric core work. I've seen Planks mentioned in your content, but try Sips seem to be the limit on those for me. The reason why I prefer ISO metric sort of add direct ad trening if you're going to do it for strength trening purposes is that that's really their kind of role. In the big four that we tend to get asked the most questions about also this is Barbell Medicine, not like functional fitness medicine, kettlebell medicine was also taken. So like we have to like form our niche somewhere. So as Barbell Medicine, so in general the role of the abs during those movement tend to be isometric. So I like Planks. I like Paloff presses. I like Abwheel roll out, see there from kneeling Abwheel roll out. So if you can do it from your toes, that's cool. I also like sort of V-sit progressions. L-sit progressions are usually beyond most individuals, but so I think most folks can do Planks. You can't do those. Then the Paloff presses tend to be pretty pretty good. And I know somebody at home sitting on a couch saying Planks. I don't need a Plank. Doesn't do anything. I'll just low bar backs, squat my way to top to your high level of domino. Strength. Well guy at home, the recent research on this suggests that a Plank in a 6rm back squat have about the same amount of abdominal activation, which means that a Plank is like pretty good because it's not the same level of fatigue that you get from a 6rm squat. Right, 6 at RP-10 would be substantially fatiguing set for most individuals compared to just doing a 32nd Plank. So I'm not saying that you should do Planks instead of squats, but in addition to, be fine. The other hand, if you said, I don't want to do any additional direct ab trening because I find it boring and whatever. That's fine too. Who would say something? Austin does a yearly GPP session. He's just living off previously developed Cardi-Restory Fitness from Swimming. And at some point he'll do it. It'll be by yearly. And then you'll just keep titating it. Keep titrating it up. Yeah, IMean, you're free To edit this out, but yeah, I don't do ab work. Yeah, I'm fine with this, buddy. Yeah, that's fine. I think though if people are asking about it, sure I'm happy with you doing more physical activity and I want it to be the correct fatigue stimulus to treat ratios. So fair. I.

=== FILE: What's The Deal With Seed Oils？ Hype vs. Science. [xwr7uQaVHzg].txt ===

Why is there an idea that olive oil is healthier than canola oil when replacing saturated fats with polyunsaturated versus monounsaturated? I don't understand thEQuestion. It's kind of phrased strengely. Do you agree? Here's the other question though. Before I'm going to let you finish. I don't know that anyone's arguing over olive oil versus canola oil. There's a canola oil. Well, what I'm getting at is that I don't know that like people in academic academia are arguing about this. I think people who are like big seed oil like, you know, species. It's both serious. 100%. Those are the people who are irrelevant because they make up, you know, very small proportion, but very vocal mind you. So from a social learning perspective, our relevant, but as far as like a policy, opinion, you know, informed status level, they, you know, I'm not unconcerned with their opinions. So what I'm getting at is that actual professionals and experts in the field are not arguing about this. It's only like the seed oil conspiracy theorists. And they're like, I think you're probably right. Olive oil versus canola oil. Again, I'm not, like the olive oil, like, you know, big subsidiaries aren't like, you know, canola oil, you suck. And you know, canola oil is on there's like, no, all oil, we're perfectly help promoting. It's like that's not happening. Yeah. I think that there are, there's a fair amount of research, you know, this to, to lay the background, just as a reminder is that we talked about in the, let's hear what you say. I'll know. Oh, yes. Align. Number and then, like at the end of, sorry, but of course, our professors in LA want to give your an appeal, or maybe be able to be able to have anление in a scratch in Brady. And go home, say anything with your obligations,けど, or you, say, that one would have I, see, Bücher, were not equal to Donald Trump to try the going from that high intake to low shows a very consistent effect. We have plenty of evidence in the Mediterranean diet realm, and that Mediterranean diet is classically associated with foods like olive oil. And so that's probably where that general population idea or understanding comes from is associating Mediterranean diet as a healthy dietary pattern that has olive oil. There you go. But actually, right, when you look at the actual research on this, the actual evidence of these replacement nutrients in controlled trials, can oil oil actually shows further reduction in like your blood lipids blood cholesterol, even when it's replaced. And not just when it's replacing saturated fats, but when it's replacing olive oil. You actually see further reductions in your blood cholesterol levels and blood blood lipid parameters. This hasn't been tested necessarily head to head. These two like oils with everything else in the diet equivalent for actuALCARdiovascular events, like heart attacks and strokes and things like that. But there is for anybody who is interested in this topic and wants a reference, there's there's a large metanalysis on the topic titled the effects of cannola oil on cardiovascular risk factors. And that's that will be sufficient to find it where they look at cannola oil replacing various other nutrient, nutrient sources and showing the effects on things like blood lipids, blood cholesterol parameters, things like that, and it shows an improvement in risk. So yeah, there is not much controversy over this idea that polyunsaturated fatty acid sources, when replacing saturated fatty acid sources at high levels of intake show the most potent reduction in risk factors and actuALCARdiovascular risk. But the controversy does exist among people who are less informed on the topic. Yeah, so I just feel like you should see the movie. The other part is like if somebody's super concerned about their seed oil intake, I think that in general, that's like such a privileged level for like their dietary pattern and you know potential for health promoting behaviors. It's like, I don't care, dude, if you don't want to eat seed oils like do your thing provided you're not then subsequently engaging in dietary practices that like juggling butter in your coffee. Correct. Or like eating a carnivore diet that's super high in saturated fat. But if you like otherwise, or like nope, all oils, my jam but cannola oil won't touch and like do your thing. Okay. Yeah.

=== FILE: What's The First Thing You'd Do To Help Someone Lose Weight？ [UV4mOnw5zZY].txt ===

 d converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter converter Because there's not going to be a default intervention that you can offer to everyone, broadly speaking, who just says, I lack time. You need to get to know a ton more about them, their background experiences, what they've tried before, what their current time barrier is, what they feel they struggle with the most. Some people might struggle most with sleep. Some people might struggle most with cravings. Some people might struggle most with actually preparing food or have multiple kids running around, you know, just getting a sense of what their current circumstances are to help formulate a strategy that might be best fit for them. So history, history, history is by far where we spend the most time here. Yeah, I mean, if the most literal sense, the very first thing after you introduce yourself is going to be building a rapport just to make sure that you have some trust that's been built there and like a plan for a follow-up. Because usually this is not like a one and done type situation. But, you know, ignoring all of that, the assessment, and you said take a history, you know, just using the term assessment. And specifically with respect to weight loss, I want to know a number of things. So, for example, what has been the person's sort of weight history as an adult? So have they lost weight, gained weight, you know, what's going on? What are their goals and why, right? And then any sort of preferences about how they would go about achieving that. So, for example, if someone's like, look, I want to lose weight because I've been gaining weight as an adult and I would prefer to be leaner. And they would prefer a lower carbohydrate type approach or something like that. That would all be useful to know before you kind of go out about making recommendations. Also, I want to know, are there any sort of contraindications to active weight loss? So, for example, a disordered eating history, some sort of medical condition, or maybe weight loss would not be advised. So if an individual is pregnant, for example, actively dealing with like a cancer diagnosis, there are a number of things, obviously getting to the fringe there. But the assessment overall is important. And that's kind of where I start the assessment. The next part of the assessment is like what sort of resources does this person have access to and what opportunities do we really have to make a change? So with respect to the diet, does this person know how to cook? Are they familiar with shopping for health-promoting foods, for example? Because a person who maybe doesn't have experience in either of those two things, that would be – your recommendations would be different compared to somebody who's like, oh, yeah, I've tracked macros off and on for a decade. And I've done a few shows, for example. Like you're starting from a different place. The next part related to the diet is what does their food environment look like, meaning particularly their microenvironments, the ones that they're able to somewhat control, maybe in the house, the workplace, stuff like that, and what sort of social support do they have? I recall a particular individual that I was coaching for a while. They like straight up purchased a year of coaching just like from the jump, which I'm like, cool. I actually think somebody gave it to them as a gift, and I was like, well, what do you want to do? And realistically, they wanted to lose close to 100 pounds, right? And so when I think about big monumental potential changes in somebody's life, I'm like, well, how did you get to where you're at now? And what are the barriers to maybe – why hasn't it just happened by default? If you want this and you're pretty motivated, what's been the holdup? Her husband was hiding like candy in virtually every place that this person spent time. So like at her desk, in her car, in the living room. So effectively, her food environment was trying to sabotage her. And I brought up the point. I was like, hey, maybe could you tell them to not do that? And she's like, absolutely not. I could not possibly do that. I'm like, well, this is going to be a challenge, right? I also coached a person who was like a – not a food scientist. She was like food scientist adjacent. She was like a taste tester for cakes and pastries and stuff like that. And I was like, tough. It's very – more challenging, right? So anyway, knowing that sort of stuff, what sort of opportunities do you have to modify the food environment, social support? That's important. Same thing with exercise. Is the person currently exercising, right? Because that would be another opportunity potentially to improve weight management. Are they meeting the physical activity guidelines? Are they not exercising at all? Your recommendations would differ based on that. And then same thing when I think about large amounts of weight loss potentially being ideal for a person. Medications. Are they interested in them? Have they consulted a physician about them? Do they have access to them? Is it a complete no-go? These are all things that you kind of walk through with the assessment. But that's kind of the first step. But none of those things are like I think what the person is asking. They're saying, no, what's the very first thing that you would actually do or recommend if somebody doesn't have a lot of time but they want to lose weight? And I guess that brings me back to maybe my real answer to this question is I don't know that time itself is the limitation here. Right. Because that kind of suggests that there's this like really heavy, deliberate, conscious decision-making that goes around with all like food-related practices. I prefer that term over behaviors. That's for another podcast maybe. Like as far as what foods are being selected from the store, what meals are being prepared, how much people are eating, how fast they're eating, and how full they feel. Like most of these things tend to be subconscious. There's a lot of cultural, environmental inputs and stuff like that. So I don't know that time is the limitation here save for a person who's like, look, I legitimately have no time to prepare food in my own home. And so therefore I have to eat the majority of my meals. They're mostly prepared outside of the home, in which case I would look for strategies to like get around that, whether it's a meal prep service, whether it's a partner helping you out, whether it's a friend helping you out, something like that. But in any case, regardless of what's going on, all roads lead to this final common pathway, which is how do we change the default dietary pattern such that the amount of energy a person is taking and the amount of calories that they're consuming more appropriately supports their goals, whether it's weight loss, weight gain, weight maintenance, or whatever. However, most people, because we do have this obesity epidemic, most people's default dietary pattern results in too many calories being consumed. And that's mostly related to the food environment, not only at large in the community and in society, but also their micro environments that they have some control over. So that's at the workplace, that's at home, things of that nature. So if I had to pick one thing, the one thing to change to rule them all, I would probably leverage the sort of motivation and willpower, if you want to call it that, to change the food environment to the extent it's possible. Yeah, I'm with you. And then after that, someone's like, look, I got rid of all the high calorie, ultra processed foods that have added sugar and stuff in the home. So now what? I already did that. What's the next step? It's like, great. How do we go about getting you to select these minimally processed foods more often? And does that mean we have to do meal prep such that when you're in a time pinch that you have something ready to go rather than having to order out, for example? So, yeah, I think overall, since most dietary practices occur subconsciously, we need to set a person up for success such that their default dietary pattern, how many calories they take in, the quality of the food, et cetera, overall supports their goals. And I think that's most easily and most efficiently sort of changed by changing the food environment. You can only go to that willpower well so often before it's dry, and then what? So – and the last thing I'll say, I know I'm ranting. We're 10 minutes into this thing. I freaking did this. People will say, well, look, bodybuilders, figure athlete, whatever, physique sort of competitors are able to manipulate their body weight very, very efficiently over the course of 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, whatever. And I'm like, yeah, but that's only 8 weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, whatever. We're talking about years. We want people to not only lose the weight, for example, but keep it off for years. And bodybuilders, by and large, are not good at that, nor did most of them start from an excess adiposity state. That's generally not the case. They're like, yeah, I was pretty fit, had a bunch of muscle mass, decided I wanted to compete, got more muscle mass, maybe bulked, and started from there. But their default sort of body composition was not like too much adiposity. So it's just a different scenario. Yeah, I recognize that this, you know, very quality and detailed answer, but it might actually be less than satisfying for the question asker who's like, I don't feel like I have time. What should I do first? And I think the point that we want to underscore here is that the end state goal of like what your dietary pattern looks like, what your day-to-day looks like, it's very similar because these principles are very common in general across, you know, all sorts of weight loss scenarios. We want to get you to that similar end state where your default diet that you have most access to, that is compatible with your lifestyle, generates the right energy balance. But the challenge is that we don't know any of the circumstances around your perceived lack of time is what I would say. And so the details of that are what matter. And so that's why our first step is getting at those details to see what strategies can we use for you, the person, to set up your lifestyle. It's not going to be as simple as, oh, this person should just do this or just do that because that may or may not be a good fit or match for that person's situation or their perceived situation. So, yeah, that's how I would put a bow on it. Yep, love that.

=== FILE: What's the Most Interesting Research You've Read Recently？ [OgPHWBt87eE].txt ===

Music Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Fagginbaum. We have Dr. Awesome Rocky in the studio live in the flesh. That's real. He's in town this week and we decided to answer somEQuestions from the internet. Alright, what is the most interesting research you've read up on that is outside your normal scope? I will answer first while you ponder. Yeah. Okay. You're like, wait, what's on my Twitter? That's right. Yes. The most interesting research that I've read recently has to do with this gravity-ostat sort of mechanism with respect to like weight regulation. Okay. So they took these, I can't remember if they're mice or rats, but they put a weight inside of them. Like so do weight inside of them. Then saw what happened to their body weight independent of that weight. And these, they lost weight because there's like this gravity-ostat mechanism. It's thought to be produced by a hormone produced from the bones, the interacts with areas of the hypothalamus to say, yeah, you don't need eat as much because you weigh more now. Which I thought was super interesting. And then, funnily enough, I think I said this or like hinted that I read this paper on one of our podcasts or YouTube, something like that. A researcher who works in the lab where they did this DM'd me. Oh, that's awesome. Oh, yeah. I was like, what's going on? This is crazy. So that was so interesting. I remember reading the paper and I was like, what? Yeah. Turns out bones do stuff too. Yeah. I think the challenging thing about this question is that it seems like we have a fairly wide scope. Okay. That's right. Is there's like a bunch of medical stuff, a bunch of trening stuff, health related things, what you're doing is technically, that's like a obesity paper, which we're sharing with others. But anyway, it's interesting, nonetheless. There are, there are a few. I think the one that I sent you recently that was a good paper. This isn't necessarily like a primary research, but a paper called obesity and responsibility. Is it time to rethink agency, strongly recommended read for folks, particularly those are in the fitness space, and tend to talk a lot about obesity and the extent to which it's a choice slash a personal success or failing. The extent to which people can manage it. It's super complicated and interesting. I research. Another one that came up just actually, I think it was yesterday earlier today. There's some new studies being done on gene editing for folks. And a sprint. Yeah. CRISPR and related technologies. And I think that that may end up being kind of the future of a lot of medical things. There's they took a group of, I think it was primates of some sort monkeys and did some gene editing aromasingle dose kind of treatment. It was like an infusion that that affected this gene editing process that led to durable lowering of their blood lipid levels for like nine months or something like that. It didn't necessarily like skyrocket, but that was like the duration of follow-up. And so that something like that to the extent that it could be done feasibly in humans that it was safe and you know, didn't have like off-target effects that were problematic. Then that would effectively end up being kind of like, it's like a lipid vaccine. Kind of like a vaccine against cardiovascular disease. So to speak, which is the number one killer in the world is cardiovascular disease. And so durable long-term lowering of blood lipid levels with aromasingle dose treatment would, you know, obviously there's an, there's a role for lifestyle, you know, things managing obesity, exercise nutrition, and managing blood lipid, but for some people for a lot of folks with genetic predispositions to elevated blood cholesterol levels. That's not necessarily enough to address their risk. And so in those situations, they end up needing to either take a daily medicine to address it or take, you know, like an injection or an infusion of some of the more advanced newer agents. But if you could do something like once and it had like safe lifelong durable effects, that'd be kind of huge. Yeah. Super interesting. This concept of gene editing, I think is not going to go away. It'll be pretty interesting to see where that goes in the future. Should workshop the name from like lipid vaccine? Or like, yeah, that's not going to play well. Yeah. I think one other thing that might be useful or at least a question that we get all the time. Yeah, I don't know how useful it is. Okay. So like, how do you get your research? So I know you're big on the on the Twitter's. I'm big on medical and academic Twitter. That's really all I use Twitter for. It's academicians, medical educators like myself and researchers. Yeah. Yeah. That's where you get most of your papers from. Yeah. There's a handful. There are handful that I like scour. So I go to the JCR, like every first of the month. I play a bone thugs and harmony. We go. We go. And then I go check it. JCR. I go to the ACSM's website for the medicine science and health and exercise. And I go to the frontiers website frontiers. Yeah. And I just kind of produce those. All the other stuff, either get inboxed to me based on like keyword searches that I have or like various medical newsletters or outlets that I've subscribed to. And that's enough. Like it's way more than stuff than I'll ever read. So I think my advice would be like pick one or two journals that you the content directly applies to you. Yeah. And then like if you saw happen to sign up for a newsletter or like a, you know, something like that, you'll get updates on and you'll have more than enough to read. I remember it was like in residency, uh, in turn, here they were like, you try to read one paper a day. You know what I was like? How that, do you understand how many papers that would be in the year? Very hard. Yeah. Like I would just be like how many papers you read this last quarter. Yeah. Well, I'm going to get to it. Yeah. All right.

=== FILE: When Should You Seek Treatment For Pain？ [gbT2RaI4B_w].txt ===

Is it ever, ever? This was an interesting word. Worthwhile, to seek treatment for chronic non-specific pain. Yes. Well, I think it's worth while to seek treatment for pain period. I assume this question probably means use of pain medications, but I'm not going to say that that means treatment. So, treatment would be seen a clinician being evaluated for potential causes of pain involving the patient, exploring this bio-psychocossocial model together, coming up with a shared management plan, and moving forward from there. So, I would say if a person has pain and they're concerned about it, see your medical professional. If it's from trening, my caveat would be hopefully they're very familiar with pain science. And unfortunately, I don't feel confident that that is the case. I'm not going to try to throw shade at the medical establishment. It's just, look, I'm in the medical establishment, and I know that that's the case right now. So, I think, like our pain rehab specialist team, those guys are the best in the business, and that would be my general recommendation for somebody who's got pain from trening. And they're like, I need some professional help. But I think if somebody has pain that concerns them, they're worried about our specific thing. They're like, oh, I have this low back pain and I'm worried it could be cancer. It sounds crazy, but that's not an unusual sort of report. Like, oh, yeah, my dad had the same sort of pain and he had cancer, and that's why I'm afraid. Yeah, seeking treatment, because you're going to be evaluated, and then treated based on fine names, and then, again, you as the complex patient, ideally, that would be a net benefit. I don't know that you need pain medications necessarily, which I assume is, again, what this question actually meant. I don't know what it implied. When I read thEQuestion, I said, I hope I didn't convey the message during my lecture, that it's not worth seekinGHelp for pain related issues, because that's certainly not the case. Yeah, in fact, the opposite. Yeah, it's very common for people to need help. I think that we definitely provided you with information, education, hopefully empower you to self-manage many of your, like, common routine day to day aches and pains, type situations, but to the extent that you're dealing with something, a pain related issue, that maybe you don't fully know what to do, or you've tried what you've learned, and you can't make progress, then seeking out some consultation, evaluations, some assistance from somebody you trust, would be a fantastic idea. Now, we cannot guarantee that that person will do, will offer you, will recommend to you, unless it's somebody from our own rehab team. I've definitely seen patients who end up seeing a pain specialist or something, and bad things end up getting ruled out, and they get a prescription for an opioid. That probably wouldn't be the case that I would go with this myself. Nor would it be the way that our rehab team would go. So we have a resource that we can offer that we trust and recommend without reservation. But if you are struggling with an issue like this, then seekinGHelp is definitely the way to go. Would recommend. Would recommend. Yes. All right. Thank you.

=== FILE: Why Grip Strength Predicts Death (And Why You Shouldn't Train It) [tZhVTse1IGE].txt ===

 autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo when in reality, it's just the thermometer. If you train your grip to, quote, live longer, you're essentially holding a match under that thermometer to make the room feel warmer. You might see a higher number on the dial, but the house is still freezing. Today, we're moving past the squeeze of spring mentality and looking at the grip strength for what it actually is, a high-fidelity thermometer for many of the most important systems in your body. We're deconstructing the biomechanics, the predictive power of hand grip strength and disease, and all the nuance in between. And to help us get into it, I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, feeling all right. No complaints today. My grip strength is intact and normal bilaterally. So let's get into it. I guess that's right. If I did manual muscle testing on myself, testing my grip strength with one hand onto the other, I could potentially trick myself. I don't know. Well, it's kind of like measuring your blood pressure at home. Theoretically, you could do it if you had a validated device and you did it with the correct procedure and everything else. This is true. We need the same sort of setup for grip strength, and we'll get into that. But first, let's talk about what is grip strength and to understand why the grip is such a powerful diagnostic. We got to look at the anatomy first. Most people think that the power that we create or the force you create for grip strength is in the hand, but really it's kind of like a wireless terminal for a motor that's located much further upstream. Now, Austin, you've done this a few times, but now we get to do it for real. I want to double click on that wireless concept to set the stage for why hand grip strength is getting so much airtime in the health and longevity spaces. I want you to walk us through the entire pathway from the moment the motor cortex sends the command down through the spinal cord all the way until the muscles actually contract. What has to go right for that signal to result in a maximal squeeze? Yeah, it's an interesting pathway and one that I outlined in, I would say, a mild amount of detail in our last mystery case where we had the individual who had the foot drop scenario. And this is something that comes up a lot clinically when a patient is experiencing some form of, you know, ideally objective weakness that there is for us to evaluate in a particular area of the body. I'm not going to go through every detail of the neuroanatomy involved for, you know, the sake of our audience, but, you know, the movement starts up in the brain. There's this combination of, well, there's the like intent, the volitional aspect of deciding to make a movement to the extent that we ever decide anything. But there are also involuntary ways by which a movement can be generated that we do not volitionally choose. And all of this is originating, well, I would say most of it, I can even think of some exceptions there, up in the brain. And so there are a few different kind of converging pathways in the brain, multiple different areas, the volitional aspects, the, you know, subcortical or subconscious aspects that kind of integrate, come together. And then their signals travel down through the brainstem, down into the spinal cord, and then emerge from the spinal cord at a particular spinal root. And then that turns into a motor nerve. And that nerve sends its signal down to the end of the nerve called a neuromuscular junction where some neurotransmitters are released. Those trigger the muscle to have some kind of, we'll call it some electrical changes and some ions shift around. And that leads to what's called depolarization of the muscle. And then there's some chemical signals that proceed from there that lead proteins within the muscle cell to interact, leading them to link up, contract, the muscle shortens, and then muscles end in tendons that cross joints. And so when that muscle shortens and it tugs on that joint, it leads to movement of the body. And so from start to finish, that is the pathway that we think about for normal force production in a particular area. And if someone is telling me subjectively that they feel like an area is weak or objectively on exam, I am determining that they are weak in an area. My job is to try to figure out where along that entire pathway could something be going wrong. We narrow that down based on the history, the timing, whether there are also sensory versus just motor alone, whether it's symmetrical on two sides of the body or just one or multiple different areas of the body. There's all sorts of ways that we can try to narrow down where could this problem be using history, using exam, and then using forms of imaging and things like that as well. Yeah. Yeah. I think outlining that whole, you know, we'll call it a neuraxis and then myoaxis, if you want to get, you know, real technical and how those things converge together is important for understanding like kind of what has to go right for you to actually do a hand grip strength test or really squeeze a barbell, a dumbbell person. But the main takeaway here is that all of these command centers are outside of the hand. So, for example, if your brain, if there's an issue there, you're not going to get the signal to the muscles that actually are responsible for making a grip. That's not going to fire. And then further, once that signal actually gets down to the level of the arm, the primary force producers for a hand grip strength test are outside of the hand. We call these extrinsic hand muscles. Mostly, these are the forearm flexors, the real motors of the system here. So, flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus. If you remember from your anatomy days, these just, you know, big sheets of muscles with really long tendons. Yeah. But those don't work in isolation. There are muscles on the other side that have to create force to stabilize the wrist joint. And then obviously, muscles within the hand, we call those intrinsic hand muscles, have to be functioning for you to, you know, fine tune that and make sure you're gripping the right thing and everything else. But yeah, the other big thing to note here is that the force is transferred through these high tensile tendons. And everyone's familiar with the tendon, you know, connects a muscle to a bone to exert force on the bone and pull it closer. Usually, you know, that's the idea here. It goes through the carpal tunnel, the flexor retinaculum. These are more anatomy terms you don't need to know. But effectively, if anything goes wrong in this system, grip strength is going to be compromised. Or if you applied this logic to another muscle, strength overall would be compromised. And so, when you're doing a hand grip strength test, you're not just testing finger strength. You're testing the integrity of this entire system from the brain to the bone and position, well, position of the hand and the wrist, that is, also matters. So, for example, there's this 3-5-3 rule that was told to me by a hand surgeon friend of mine. And to the extent this is a rule or more of just like something to think about, it means that when you are trying to test somebody's grip strength or your grip strength, the wrist has to be an extension. Approximately 35 degrees, this is like a self-determined extension position. So, like, when you're bench pressing or pressing, you don't need to get out the goiniometer and be like, am I at 35 degrees? It's just going to happen naturally when you squeeze as hard as you can. But if you were to try to test grip strength with a flexed wrist, you get what's called active insufficiency. It effectively pre-shortens some of the muscles and prevents optimal sort of cross-bridging. You talked about the proteins in the muscle. They have to link up and if they don't link up in a nice way, force production or strength is compromised. And so, in addition to that degree of wrist extension, trying to bend your wrist back towards your forearm, there's also some thought that you need to be in 3-5 degrees of ulnar deviation. And if you're in anatomical position with your palms facing forward, pinkies towards the inside or medial aspect of your body, if you were to try to deviate your wrist or move your wrist towards your body, that's ulnar deviation. Again, you don't need to consciously think about this stuff. When you just go to squeeze something real, real hard, it just sort of happens. Yeah, well, I'm actively testing this under my desk as you describe it and I can definitely feel stronger and weaker positions if my wrist is flexed a little bit forward or if it's a little bit more radially deviated, for example, and listeners can even test this out for themselves at home. Just squeeze your wrist as hard as you can but then try to put it into flexion and you'll feel like, oh, I'm not actually able to squeeze quite as hard in this position. It just feels awkward to do it this way. So, yeah, interesting. Yeah, when I try to teach the overhead press to people, for example, and we talk about the grip and they're like, what should I do? Especially if somebody's really into it, which I can appreciate as a fellow nerd, game recognized game, I tell them, put your hands out in front of you kind of like your Frankenstein. And then just make as tight of a fist as you can and watch what happens to your wrist. And it extends and it tends to deviate towards the ulnar side a little bit as well. So that's one of the positions that matters. Another thing, it's not really positional but more of just a quirk and feature of the hand grip strength test. There's this thought that there is a 10% difference on average between the dominant limb and the non-dominant limb. So you'd have differences in side to side. And so this was thought to only be at the level of the hand, and then people found it. Well, no, actually, the whole arm, particularly in untrained individuals, that asymmetry tends to narrow when people are trained. However, when you look at the research on this, left-handed individuals tend to not actually have this asymmetry. It tends to be one-to-one, which I thought was interesting. Is it because we're forcing left-handed people to operate in a right-handed environment? Were they only testing surgeons? They're like, look, we don't have any left-handed instruments. It's only right-handed instruments. That's kind of interesting, though. Yeah, it is interesting. I mean, there was certainly a long time where people who are lefties were forced into a right-handed world, and I think these days this is less and less of a thing that tends to happen. I know that Lorraine is a lefty who actually is quite dexterous, both literally, and she's able to do a lot of things with her right arm just as well, sometimes even better. So there is some interesting adaptability. Yeah, but so if somebody saw, if you saw an asymmetry testing somebody's hand grip strength side to side of 10% or whatever, this wouldn't be abnormal, especially if they're right-handed. And even if they're left-handed and you see a slight asymmetry side to side, again, not really a cause for alarm, where we think there's sort of like this line in the sand where you're like, that is odd and I want to investigate that further, is when there's a 20% difference side to side. There's a thought that that is a kind of red flag clinical sign where there could be a pathology at the level of the neck, whether it's a disc herniation, a fracture, nerve root issue, maybe in the brachial plexus, that's this big bundle of nerves that serves your upper extremity or a local nerve sort of issue because it's just a greater than predicted difference side to side. Now, of course, based on what Austin's talked about so far, that assumes everything else in the system is good. Brain's working good, tendon's working good, bone's working good, you know, there's no other issue. But yeah, that's just sort of some of the quirks and features of the hand grip strength here. There's other stuff like if somebody has a smaller or larger hand, for example, and the handle on the hand grip strength test, it's this little handheld device which you guys have probably seen. If it's too far away or too close, that can compromise your reading. If the texture on the actual handle is slippery, for example, that can compromise the output. And so there's a lot of interesting stuff to do this correctly, not dissimilar to like blood pressure testing, for example. People are like, oh, just take your blood pressure. And it's like, well, is the cuff the right size? Is it in the right position? Do you have to pee? Are you in pain? Like all sorts of stuff, you know. Well, an interesting caveat or I don't know if I'd call it a correction is when you say like to do it quote unquote correctly. And it's not to say that doing it in any of these other ways is incorrect. The issue more so is just, is it something on which you can use our established criteria, right? So all of the ways that we establish our cutoffs for healthy resting blood pressure are based on it being measured in a particular way. And so if you want to use those cutoffs, you should measure it similarly. The same thing would apply here based on the way that these hand grip strength quote unquote cutoffs were determined, be it using a, maybe a particular device oriented in a particular way with a particular texture. If you want to use those cutoffs, you need to measure it similarly. It's not to say it's like wrong if you were to measure it in a different way, but rather that you would need a new set of cutoffs established on that, right? So if the original studies on blood pressure were all done in people who had to pee and were standing up, probably 120 over 80 would not be considered the normal blood pressure. We would just have a different set of cutoffs. And then anytime we wanted to measure somebody's blood pressure, we'd have to make sure they're standing up and had to pee. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. So I can envision a scenario like if you went into a clinic, maybe a predatory clinic, I don't think this exists, but you know, whatever. Humans never fail to disappoint. And they were like, we're going to make sure this guy has a low grip strength. We're going to cut him down to size. And they're like, hey, so to test your grip strength, we're going to have you, your elbow is going to be at 90 degrees. You're going to be seated like you should. And then flex your wrist as much as possible and then grab onto this thing. And they're like, see, you're low. You need to start TRT. Exactly. Much like testosterone clinics that send you to get your labs done at 5 p.m. You know, after a meal and a poor night of sleep. Yeah, they set you up for failure there. Yeah. So ultimately, all of these things need to be, quote, correct in order to get an accurate measurement to use the data that we have. And, you know, there's a bunch of different things that can be altered. Like if your wrist is flexed, if the handle is slippery, if the distance to squeeze is odd, well, you can get a weak movement, but that doesn't necessarily mean you have true sort of weakness based on this test. So now that we understand the mechanical chain, we need to look at what happens when the chain starts to reflect systemic failure. So Austin, from a clinical perspective, we see grip strength used as a test for sarcopenia as seen in the recent guidelines. Could you talk about the distinction between dinapenia and sarcopenia and why the signal in the hand often fails before the muscle itself actually disappears? Yeah, I think we both have thoughts on this. And even if the guidelines might, you know, describe the use of grip strength as a diagnostic test for sarcopenia, I personally don't use it for a variety of reasons. Practical limitations as well as kind of like when we talk about the use of waist measurement in practice, it's a great measure when it's done properly, but there's a lot of ways that people can mess up a waist measurement. And similarly, as you've laid out so far, a lot of ways that a grip strength test, even using a supposedly, you know, validated dynamometer can be done in a way that limits the validity of the data that you get in terms of how do I apply it to the cutoff? So I personally tend to use other assessments when I'm, you know, evaluating somebody for this, but yep, it's a very popularly discussed tool in the context of sarcopenia. This other term that you mentioned, dinapenia, is one that is, I think, a less well-appreciated, maybe we're doing our part in bringing it more to the forefront these days because it is more our interest in that dinapenia refers more specifically to strength and power, much more so than sarcopenia traditionally was thought of as just muscle mass. As we started to realize that health outcomes and things like that were better correlated with strength and power than with muscle mass, they tried to fold in muscle mass and strength into the term sarcopenia, which is how you'll often find it, but then I think it's just been split off to this other term, dinapenia. So some of the differences, as I've laid out so far, there's more than just muscle mass that relates to people's ability to produce force. Obviously, having the muscle present is a key component. It is, you know, part of that, we'll call it a final common pathway to force generation because it's at the end of that chain, but there's a lot of stuff that happens beforehand, at least as much, if not more, that has to happen beforehand, starting from the brain all the way down, that spinal cord, that spinal nerve, down to depolarize that muscle. And as you have laid out well in some previous content, including in our sarcopenia podcast episode, that itself is a neurological event. And so there are neurological changes that happen that can limit the ability to produce force, strength, and power kind of disproportionate to the changes in muscle mass that happen. And then the last thing to consider here is that not all muscle mass is the same. It's kind of like when people criticize BMI and they say, well, BMI doesn't accurately capture, you know, my level of muscularity versus body fat. And it's like, okay, well, if you wanted to use a similar sort of analogy or argument, if you just quantitate somebody's like muscle cross-sectional area, that itself doesn't necessarily distinguish the muscle quality. How much of that cross-sectional area is comprised of lean, you know, contractile tissue versus how much of it has fat infiltration into it versus how much of it involves fibrosis or scarring that is non-contractile in nature but still contributes to the overall muscle bulk or muscle size. And so there are various other factors that can, you know, impact the apparent size of the muscle that might not directly contribute to force production. So these are all kind of interesting caveats and limitations and why dinapenia is a really interesting way to think about things. Muscle strength, muscle power, it integrates that neurological component that may be a bigger factor than just muscle size being lost alone. Yeah, yeah, we talked about this a lot on our sarcopenia podcast where it's like, it's not just the age-related loss of muscle, in fact, it's more so the age-related loss of muscular function, in this case, strength or power. I also prefer cratopenia, which is the loss of muscle power or the inability to produce force rapidly. Depends on which derivative you're taking of the crato of the force production. Yeah. So, yeah, that's the whole point is that when you use one of these like functional tests and you could use other stuff, a timed up and go, sit to stand test, these are other sort of functional tests for sarcopenia, which would probably be rebranded as dinapenia or my favorite cratopenia, you're getting a more accurate sort of picture of like, does this person have this condition versus just a loss of muscle mass, which, you know, you can see people whose muscle cross-sectional area decreases, like you said, from a loss of intramuscular fat, you know, this myosteotosis, for example, and you're like, well, your muscle got smaller, but it works better, so am I concerned or not? The point, the whole reason we're talking about hand grip strength is because we often hear that it predicts how long you live, but we need to be precise about the data and let's start off with some normal grip strength levels. So, like body mass index or BMI, there's no single sort of cutoff that applies to everyone. There are ethnic and geographic differences, also age-related differences, and normative data does exist, but you kind of have to go through that with a fine-tooth comb. What's the population that you're talking about and, you know, how are they deriving or creating this normative data? So, for like sarcopenia, for example, the latest guidelines suggest that if a man has a hand grip strength of less than 27 kilograms, that's, like, indicative that a person has high risk for sarcopenia and it's less than 16 kilos for women. But, that's kind of like pathology, so what is normal? And I think it's helpful to kind of understand this as like an ever-changing or dynamic sort of metric. Kind of like bone mineral density, it changes over the course of someone's life. It peaks in early adulthood. There's some, like, maintenance phase towards midlife area. That sort of timeline that declines from midlife onwards in most folks, particularly individuals who are not remaining active. So, for example, in a large cohort in the United States, so understanding that that's our population, men between ages 29 to 39, that's where they saw their peak value, which was 51 kilos, almost double the sarcopenia cutoffs, and it was 31 kilos for women between ages 26 and 42. Now, after that, the hand grip strength seems to decline at a rate of approximately 1% per year after age 40, and it accelerates even more than that after age 65. This can be slowed with resistance training. We're going to talk about the specifics of that later. It tends to be better, meaning that exercise tends to have a better effect when it's heavy, so at least 60% of an individual's one rep max. There are smaller effects of resistance training on grip strength performance when it's indirect, meaning you're not, someone's not actually doing straight up grip strength training, whether it's crushers, whether it's plate pinches, hold, whatever, so you get larger effects on how you train. So theoretically, you could get somebody to go into the gym, and maybe they were a, quote, grip maxer, and they were like, look, I've got to get my grip strength up to that. Who was the guy who just climbed the skyscraper, Alex Honnold? Yeah, yeah, watched it. I have a picture of him on my phone with the hand grip strength test, and he's squeezing it. It says 94 kilos. I mean, yeah, I buy it. Strong, strong. But trying to achieve that is unlikely to improve your sort of health trajectory, and that's going to be a recurring theme throughout this podcast. So if you want to turn it off now, look, you got the, you got the gist of it, and you can just turn it off. But we hope you don't, because there's more interesting stuff here. So my thought here, kind of leave you on a little cliffhanger, is acing the test the goal, or should it just be sort of like a part of the process? So there's some interesting data here. Why does grip strength actually matter? One of the biggest studies to come out in recent times is the Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology Study, also known as the PURE study. This is a large longitudinal population study designed to assess health outcomes across diverse economic and sociocultural settings. So about 140,000 people aged 35 to 70 from 17 different countries, and they were followed for an average of four years to track mortality and health events like developing various diseases. Notably, grip strength was found to be a stronger predictor of all cause and cardiovascular mortality than systolic blood pressure. That's the top number. For every five kilos decrease in grip strength, there was a 17% increased risk of cardiovascular death and a 7% increased risk of non-cardiovascular death. That's the headline. That's what you read in the newspaper or online. I don't know that anybody reads newspapers anymore. Now, interestingly, this was usually not reported. There was no significant association between hand grip strength and incident diabetes, fractures, or injuries from a fall. Other evidence on this, there are a handful of things that are highly suggestive or highly correlated to hand grip strength, like all cause mortality, about a 28% risk reduction for those in the highest sort of quartile or segment of hand grip strength compared to the lowest. For cardiovascular disease mortality, so death from heart disease, about 16% risk reduction if you have the highest, you're in the highest cohort, highest group of grip strength compared to the lowest. And this is particularly true in folks without pre-existing heart disease. And then the risk of disability goes down by about 24% for those that are in the highest bracket of hand grip strength compared to the lowest. There were weak or absent associations in a lot of other things, including maybe some things that would surprise you, Dr. Baraki. So leg power, not really associated with it. Walking speed, not really associated with it. Inability to balance, hospital admission, hip fracture, cancer mortality, all weak to absent sort of correlations. So to me, there seems to be this complicated relationship between hand grip strength and health. On the one hand, pun intended, seems to be a very good test of how the musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems are working. There's obviously a lot of overlap between the health of those two systems and others, like the heart, for example. On the other hand, pun intended again, it doesn't seem to correlate with health outcomes like cancer. But what's most interesting is that it doesn't seem to correlate well with strength and function of the body overall, as noted by the findings on leg power, walking speed, balance, risk of falls, and so on. What do you make of that? Gosh, it is an interesting observation and it illustrates, I think, some of the areas where there's utility to this measure as well as areas where there are limitations to it. I like the way you described it as kind of like an integrator of neuromuscular function in a similar way to how popular VO2 max measurements have been in recent years. And to be fair, a VO2 max metric is a really quite good integrator of not just cardiorespiratory and like oxygen delivery physiology, but also an integrator of maybe some degree of genetic predisposition and then also an integrator of to the extent you have trained it, it is something that necessitates some degree of training to build up to very, very high levels in most people. So the use of these tools as integrators is, I would say, interesting. There's some differences between these two, again, in terms of like, say with VO2 max, if you train towards the test, I'm more confident that there are likely to be some health benefits as a result, whereas if you train very pointedly towards hand grip strength improvements, I'm less confident that there are going to be like tons of downstream health benefits to it. But yeah, we know that, or we would expect there to be some correlation, for example, between hand grip strength and the amount of overall muscularity and lean body mass that someone has. And that itself is something that is partially influenced by genetics, much like how I mentioned VO2 max is, is an integrator of other things, general health, endocrine, hormone status, things like that. And to the extent that somebody is well-trained, there can be some impact there. But as far as teasing apart, why do we see this like variation between hand grip strength as a metric and all of these different health outcomes? I think it's going to be very difficult to have a clear, confident explanation for why this and not that. There's obviously some combination of, well, how good of a metric is hand grip strength in general? And then how much of this is like statistical and like study-based noise? If you analyze the data in a different way, if you did the study again, maybe you do find a slight signal in this direction or that direction for something like that. Ultimately, what we're looking for is one of these things that can be used, you know, ideally as a metric that can give us very confident assessments in our patient's current state of health. And gosh, it would be nice also if like VO2 max, for example, if we trained towards it that we would feel confident that somebody's health status is improving. I think hand grip strength probably falls a bit short on that end. And I suspect we'll get more into that here in a little bit. Yeah, yeah. I tend to agree. And the way I came at this was like, well, if there's this sort of disconnect, is it a function of the test itself? It's just not actually capturing what we think it is, maybe something else? And I kind of went down a rabbit hole and found some interesting stuff. So as you predicted and as you, you know, intuited, the biggest factor affecting baseline hand grip strength is the amount of lean body mass that somebody carries. So a bigger car needs a bigger engine. In that case, we're talking about muscle cross-sectional area. And so consequently, total body, lean body mass, the cross-sectional area of the muscles is the single strongest predictor of absolute hand grip strength. It's many more variants than age or height alone. This is presumably why it's used for sarcopenia. If you're like, look, how much muscle does a person have? Squeeze. And it also happens to capture function, which is quite nice. So, you know, gold star for hand grip strength so far. Interestingly, hand grip strength is highly influenced by genetics, as is the amount of muscle mass that people carry. And there's a lot of overlap between the two. Genome-wide association studies show that roughly 50 to 60 percent of the genetic influences that affect your lean body mass also affect your hand grip strength. We're talking about genes like ACTN3, the quote sprint gene, and those that regulate the actin-myosin bridge. Those are the contractile proteins in your muscle that have to link up to produce force. Also, genes involved in neural development and subsequent rate of force production. Genes regulating insulin-like growth factor, that's IGF-1, and myostatin signaling, which are all involved in muscular hypertrophy and muscular growth. But heritability estimates for hand grip strength range between about 50 to 65 percent. This means that roughly half of the difference in grip strength between individuals is attributable to their genetic makeup rather than their training. The fact that hand grip strength is genetically mediated and correlated with lean body mass suggests that increasing hand grip strength via training creates a sort of divergence or separation in predictive power depending on how that strength is acquired. So it's highly predictive when untrained, particularly directly trained when people do a bunch of grip strength training because it does capture genetics, health status, and physical activity habits overall. It tends to be less predictive when it is trained directly, again, direct grip strength training, because that tends to obscure genetics, health status, and other physical activity that doesn't really train towards the test but trains the body in a systematic way. So imagine if a person was diagnosed with sarcopenia or our preferred term dinopenia, cratopenia, and they just did grip strength training. They're like, I'm going to max out this test. I think you're missing it. So Austin, is this another case of sort of it matters how you got there? Yeah, I really like how you phrased that where training created a divergence in predictive power. That's like a nice phrase. And the image that it generated in my mind is going to draw back to a legendary story in like the powerlifting world. And don't know if this is accurate or not, but it serves to illustrate the point. You may be able to speak to this a little bit better than I can, but I recall hearing, for example, that like Ed Cohn, who's one of the most well-known powerlifters of all time.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop becoming one of the best power lifters of all time. That level of performance, however, is not terribly remarkable up front. In other words, if you compared the fact that him untrained pulling 405 compared with once somebody spends a decade of their life training to achieve a 405 deadlift, there's a similar divergence in that predictive power. The person who trained towards that for a decade just to achieve that same level of performance, it's like, yeah, that doesn't tell me nearly as much. And if anything, it might tell me that you're worse off comparatively speaking. So that's kind of the image that that description brought to mind for me. Yeah, also we see the same thing with like people new to resistance training. They're very hyper-focused on how strong can I get in like two months, three months, four months. And they're like, I have to achieve these arbitrary benchmarks. Look, I get it, you wanna get stronger. But to me, your response initially to training does not tell me how far you're gonna go. It really just tells me like, do you like this or not? Yeah. Yeah. So I think maybe this brings in some nuance to hand grip strength. I'm not gonna throw the baby out with the bathwater here, but perhaps a better predictor would be a sort of relative grip strength or what's your grip strength divided by your BMI or your body weight? Because size matters, kind of like a power to weight ratio here. And there's some evidence here. So for cardiometabolic health, this may be better than absolute grip strength. As relative grip strength goes up, the risk of metabolic syndrome goes down. It is a significant predictor of hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia, so elevated cholesterol levels, whereas absolute hand grip strength was not correlated in this large sample size. And I think that's because it eliminates the obesity paradox here. Individuals with obesity tend to carry more lean body mass than their relatively lean counterparts. The idea that obesity is sort of a disease of inadequate musculature, while it is repeated by some people in this space, is definitively untrue. Indirectly investigated, that is definitively false. And so we think that people who have like a low relative grip strength, they might actually be carrying too much body fat, for example, or their muscles may be sort of dysfunctional relative to their size. They might have some fatty infiltration of that myosteotosis, for example. So the way I'm coming at this is that absolute strength kind of predicts if you might die from a cardiovascular event relative to like genetics and your other sort of habits, capturing all that stuff, whereas relative grip strength might predict why you're developing the disease. It's sort of like a metabolic sort of signal. So if you only track absolute numbers, you may miss that sort of check engine light for metabolic disease. This is speculative as far as like, what should you target? What sort of grip strength? Because we have normative data on absolute grip strength, so less data on relative grip strength. But there's a thought here based on that same data in the United States that men should be targeting a ratio greater than 0.5 and women should be targeting a ratio greater than 0.4. There's also some thoughts to using like grip power. So the rate of force production, like how quickly can you produce max force, which if you think about it, would reflect, hey, look, how many type two motor units do you have still hanging around? Whereas sarcopenia is a loss of those nerves. So it'd be interesting to use that. But Austin, what do you think about using relative grip strength versus absolute hand grip strength for a clinical tool? Is this like BMI alone versus BMI plus waist circumference to you or something else? I think it's interesting. And, you know, the thought that comes to mind is that I recall years ago, our friend Greg Knuckles having a lot of pieces that he wrote at the time around the use of something called allometric scaling as a tool to kind of index strength performance for body size. And so whether this idea of relative grip strength as the absolute strength divided by BMI or by body surface area or by body weight, or I don't have strong feelings about any of those. I feel like that is much more a question for just like big data and a statistician. Determine, you know, if you're faced with these data and these outcomes, find us the analytical method that gives us the best predictive power. And that's a job for, you know, statistical analysis to determine which performs the best. Now, if you're going to try to translate, hey, let's use an allometrically scaled grip strength in clinical practice. It's like, nah, like there's, you would need to have a standardized, reliable way to obtain the data and then have your EMR auto calculated or something. And then it's like, what do you, what do you do with that? So I think still we come back to kind of like what you mentioned with BMI and waist circumference. It's like, yeah, great tool when it's done properly. I still have concerns about practical deployment of this in the clinical setting. And so that's why, you know, I think that some degree of like formal training for clinicians is necessary if you want to be able to use something like this. But still, it's just like, what are you going to do with that information? And you want the practical, like quote unquote, bedside test to be pragmatic, to minimize the potential sources of error, to maximize the reliability of it, things like that. And so even though there are still caveats with a, you know, sit to stand or a timed up and go or something like that, I still prefer that over requiring somebody to carry around a handheld dynamometer and to expect them to be able to do these tests reliably in practice to get these types of data so that then what? So that you can tell the person, yeah, you should probably exercise more. I'd like, you know what I mean? So it's very interesting in a lot of ways to the extent that people might be a little bit more motivated by something like this or there might be data nerds or for like research purposes and things like that. Totally worth determining what is the best kind of indexing method of grip strength to what variable of body surface area, mass, BMI, element, any of these things. But I still, as a clinician who does this kind of stuff at the bedside, I'm like, I still don't see this happening in the real world. Yeah, you would want to test for muscular strength to identify something that no other test is able to do so and do it in a way where it is predictive before the thing you're trying to stop happens. And it's like, is the eyeball test just not going to work here? Most of the time, my history and my eyeball test tells me enough, but I'm also like deliberately looking for these things in patients where it's not everyone is. I imagine like a, you carry around like a, a digitally instrumented squeeze ball, like just in your, in your, you know, long white coat or whatever. You're like, hey, squeeze this thing. And it comes out and it's like either green, yellow or red. And you're like, okay, that's like a, you know, it's just another point to like consider maybe. All right, we're going to pivot here after the commercial break to a bro science beat down. We're going to address some of the bro science stuff around hand grip strength when we return. All right, we're back. It is the time for bro science beat down. There's a lot of stuff going around about hand grip strength and we need to push back respectfully. First off is this phenomenon that you can see when testing people's hand grip strength called neural jitter. So when you squeeze a hand grip strength dynamometer, you're not just looking for the high score, the number, you're looking for the quality of the signal. So if that signal isn't smooth, but instead it's oscillating or waxing and waning, that can be the brain trying to tell us something. Sometimes you can see this with pathology. There's a bunch of research on this in different neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's, where they have this sort of non-smooth signal when they're trying to do a hand grip strength that where this occurs years before other sort of physical symptoms do such as like gait issues or tremors. So effectively, a person would not be able to like smoothly coordinate their contractions to put together a max hand grip strength test. Also very evident post-stroke, but you would kind of expect that anyway. And just to point out that those are also problems not with muscle mass, but also, but those are issues mostly up in the brain. That's where, you know, Parkinson's is a complex pathology, but, you know, if you wanted to oversimplify it down to issues in that kind of central subcortical signaling and similar with Alzheimer's, there can certainly be associations with other things that can affect things more peripherally, but that's kind of primarily where those diseases quote unquote live. Yeah. Yeah, that's a good point. And there's also some thought that, you know, because that happens in these medical conditions, that maybe this is also like a signal that you should use in your training to predict when you're cooked, when you're redlined, when you're over fatigued. There's a thought that, look, if your hand grip strength goes down by like 10% day to day, that means you're cooked. You should back off training. It's the thought that everybody at home should have a hand grip strength dynamometer to squeeze before you go in the gym and it'll tell you what to do. A couple problems with that. One, there's no human data on this at all. Like just never, never been investigated. To the equipment limitations. So to do a proper hand grip strength, you need a relatively pricey instrument. I think the Jamar digital hand grip strength dynamometer is like the kind of the gold standard here. It tests, like its frequency of sampling is very high and that's why it's expensive. Whereas the thing you can buy that's like mechanical or whatever is much lower as far as its granularity. So some equipment limitation. But look, there are rich influencers out there and rich, maybe grip maxers that could potentially up for this and get it. But the point is there, even if you have accurate data, what are you comparing that to? Because again, this really hasn't been investigated in humans. So Austin, to you, is this like a trying to derive a training readiness score like strain or something like that that some of these other wearables try to try to give people to affect their training? You're trying to predict performance and like training tolerance ahead of time, but this time with an even cruder metric. Yeah, it's like this odd combination of both being crude while also being overly focused at the same time. Like I would never use a tool like this over just like an overall subjective metric of like, hey, how you feeling? How you doing? And if somebody's like, I'm not sure yet, then it's like, okay, well, why don't we get started and see how it goes? You know? So I don't see myself ever using a tool like this to preemptively make training decisions because it is way too myopic and simultaneously way too crude. Yeah. The other thing is like, imagine, even if it was like, maybe not as crude or whatever, you were satisfied with like, all right, this kind of does tell you what you want. So what? The idea would be that it modifies training in such a way where it improves your sort of training related outcomes compared to just going, you know, doing what you were supposed to do and auto-regulating it based on your performance and how you feel and everything else. We see the same thing with like HRV, our rate variability and whatever. It's like, to the extent that it's tested, it's relatively accurate, but still doesn't seem to be better than just like, okay, we're kind of going on vibes here and trying to achieve the general, you know, goal of the workout each time and not skipping workouts. If anything, you'd use HRV and maybe this for like an extra workout like, oh, you're feeling awesome? Maybe you should train more. I suppose, yeah. I'd be interested if there's data out there looking at, for example, HRV, which is admittedly a bit better established in terms of telling us some potentially useful information, but what proportion of the time is it drastically discordant with the person's subjective self-assessment? And I would say that the greater that proportion of time is where HRV and subsequent performance end up actually being poor compared with the person saying that they felt awesome, maybe there's some utility there, but I actually don't think that that is likely to be the case, but yeah, that's a separate topic. Yeah, I agree. All right, continuing on our bro science beat down, the next one is extensor training. The claim is that, look, you got to train finger extension to balance out the flexion, all the flexing, all the gripping, all the crushing that you're doing on the barbell, the dumbbell, the machines. You got to train in isolation finger extension to prevent carpal tunnel, various tendinopathies, particularly at the level of the elbow. So you got to, yeah, isolated training of the finger extensors with like these little rubber bands. Pretty much entirely unsupported by any clinical evidence, especially in healthy populations, though it can play a role in certain rehab settings. So somebody's got a gripping issue overall from something else, whether it's fall, trauma, you know, something like that can be useful. But yeah, it's kind of like relegated to the use in like the rehab world. And just FYI, the extensors are heavily active when you grip anything anyway. That's how your wrist stays stable and prevents active insufficiency. What do you think those muscles on the backside of your arm are doing? It's not like they're just hanging out waiting to do something. They're active. What do you think about extensor training, Dr. B? I've used it a bit in, as you mentioned, a rehab context. I'm still not convinced it was absolutely necessary for successful rehab, but has a bit of a role there. I agree. There's like no real role for this in kind of routine training in healthy asymptomatic people, unless for whatever reason they're really geeked out on this. It kind of falls back to that general myth of muscles need to be quote unquote balanced like on one side to the other. Like, say your quads and your hamstrings, which if they were truly one-to-one balanced, you would be horribly dysfunctional. Yeah, and you walk in circles and not very athletic. If your hamstrings were just as strong as your quadriceps, that'd be pretty puzzling. So yeah, nonsense. Yeah, agreed. And the last part of this bro science beat down is grip maxing. Again, people are like, look, I got to get my grip strength up. I have to directly train it because I got to have a higher grip strength. And it's like, oh, are you a climber? And they're like, well, no, I just need a higher grip strength. And you're like, okay, wait, do you have a grip strength issue with like the deadlift? Are you a strongman competitor? Are you doing farmer's walks? Like, whatever. Like, no, no, I just want to get a better test. Like, what do you think about that? I mean, if you want to go for it. I think the idea of, again, using it because of how popular it is as like a mortality predictor that as we have established at this point is kind of misguided. If somebody just wants to, for example, there are people who like to enter those like captains of crush grip competitions, which cool, go for it. Like that's, I still think you probably ought to be training the rest of your body to some extent. But yeah, I wouldn't blow that out of proportion for like health benefits of directed grip training aside from general training. Yeah, that's the thing. It's like, if you're doing it just because you want a stronger grip for some sort of functional purpose or just to like impress people, you want to bend nails, you want to rip bone books, you want to, you know, arm wrestling, whatever. Sure. That seems reasonable. There's a, there's a task specific reason you're training grip strength. And that seems like you should dedicate some training resources that way. But if it's for mortality, I would do more conditioning. Yeah. Or more cooking or like more sleeping or something else. All of those things that have more effects. Which brings us into our next section. What do programming wise? We're talking about hand grip strength. What do you do about it? If, you know, you either feel like you're at risk of low hand grip strength, you have low hand grip strength, your client does something like that. We've established that the grip is kind of like a thermometer measuring the temperature of the room. And, but to fix the temperature in the room, the body, we got to look at the heater. That's the whole system. So we have to do some systemic training. There's some good evidence here that if a person has a sort of low grip strength and they do indirect resistance training, this is particularly true in individuals with sarcopenia, that their hand grip strength improves. And which is exactly what you would expect. It prevents further loss of type 2 motor neurons. So kind of stops sarcopenia cold in its tracks if somebody does resistance training, again, for the whole body, not just for the grip. It also improves their function, generally speaking. And you see a modest improvement in hand grip strength. So that's kind of sort of like the cohort or group of people that have a active pathology. What about for healthy individuals who have a normal grip strength? What happens to their grip strength when they do resistance training that's not focused just on specific grip training? The results are pretty mixed. Some studies show a modest improvement in grip strength. Other studies show no improvement in hand grip strength. But they all come back to the same sort of caveat here. The said principle, the specificity of adaptation to impose demand, which is a fancy way of saying, look, how you train is going to determine the types of adaptations that you get. If you do not directly train your grip, we would not expect or predict your grip strength to improve. It might do so just as by nature of the exercise that you're doing. For example, if you deadlift and your deadlift has gone up, you know, 400 pounds over the course of your training career, I can tell you that your hand grip strength has improved, particularly in the context of a deadlift. Same thing with farmer's walks, farmer's carries, so on and so forth. Chin up strength if you were a climber and you climb more, stuff like that. The point is that you're not going to get as much of an improvement in grip strength compared to if you trained it directly, which goes back to the point we just said. Why are you training it directly? If you just want to, carry on. But I don't think it has an effect on sort of, you know, health trajectory or otherwise predicting how you're going to do. It kind of increases the divergence of the predictive power for the hand grip strength. So that's training. I think we would both agree and you can just confirm or deny. Most people, if you're concerned with strength, generally speaking, probably don't isolate it to grip strength training. Probably just train the whole body. That would be the... Totally. Not unless that's a very specific targeted goal that gets you excited, but otherwise not necessary for the vast majority. And even if it does get you excited, please, please, please train the rest of your body. Yeah. Please, please, please. Don't think that needs to be said, but yeah. Yeah. And then the last part here is straps because people will say, look, if you're trying to get stronger and, you know, we know the hand grip strength is so important, can't use straps. Straps will eliminate all of the benefits you're going to get from resistance training. And it's like, how does that work? Like the grip is still working, thing one. Like it's not like you can just take your hands off the bar and just let the straps do the work. I suspect if you had hooks, you could potentially do that. But then, but then you would have to figure out a way by which loading the body in a systemic way confers no adaptations from exercise. Yeah. Outside of competitors, I actually encourage people to use straps all the time because it just doesn't matter that much. And if their grip is limiting how much load they can lift more generally, I would rather them, you know, be able to provide a more, you know, stronger stimulus overall with loading that is not limited by, say, the intrinsic muscles of the hand, for example. So unless you have competitive asthma. Any clinical evidence? Any clinical evidence? Yeah, that's my thing. It's like, if anything, the use of straps is going to increase the training load, which we suspect is going to increase fitness-related adaptations and subsequent health-related adaptations. But yet, if you have a specific task that you need to be able to perform without straps, you've got a powerlifting meet coming up, you're a climber or whatever, you're going to need to specifically develop that adaptation with at least some training without straps. But doing all of your training without straps just because you're like, I'm going to get more hand grip strength out of this, it's like, I think you're missing the forest for the trees because you actually have to be strong first for this to matter. Yeah. So, Austin, if a trainee sees their grip strength falling into that sort of medical red zone, so less than 26 kilos for men, less than 16 kilos for women, those are the sarcopenia cutoffs, what should their primary clinical priority be? Do they need to go see a hand specialist or is it a broader metabolic and neurological workup or is it just, hey, you need to lift some weights? What do? Well, if they're already a trainee, I think this is an exceedingly unlikely scenario because honestly, those grip strength cutoffs for medical risk are very low in terms of your actual strength. So, most people who are actually trainees who are doing some form of regular exercise, I don't think are terribly likely to see this happen. Now, if despite training, it's falling into a medical red zone, yeah, I have some medical questions and concerns, be it about their metabolic or even some neurological type concerns, especially if it's asymmetric, if it's one side that is limited versus if it is more symmetric. Now, more often, the type of sarcopenia, dinapenia types of concerns are going to be in people who are definitively not training, have never trained, don't train, and who maybe have already accumulated some degree of medical comorbidities and things like that, in which case, yeah, we need to attack those things through directed medical intervention to the extent that is appropriate for them, as well as just generalized training. And the generalized training will look like the training that we have been talking about for years here, generally guideline concordant at a minimum to include strength and cardiorespiratory training, and then the more they're willing and able to do, the better from there. So, yep, I think that a competent clinical evaluation would be useful here to differentiate because there are certainly some red flag type features that I would identify of, hey, I have grip weakness on one side that is dropping things and stuff like that that would get most people's attention, but that's treated and viewed very differently compared to a more generalized and then is it happening despite people's best efforts to, you know, exercise or is it happening in somebody who's never been an exerciser in just the gradual progressive condition in the context of like overall poor health and things like that. So, those would be the big things I would think about. Everybody should be training regardless though. Is there a peptide that you recommend for low hand grip strength or? Generally not. Not at this time. All right. So, we've covered the mechanics, the diagnostics, and the exercise programming. So, let's bring this home or land the plane with the final verdict on how to use this information. Your grip strength is one of the most sophisticated readouts of your biological age and systemic integrity, but you have to remember the hierarchy. First, the absolute number is just a number and you can think of this as your survival floor. If someone is below that 26 kilogram mark for men or 16 kilogram mark for women, that is a red flag that is consistent with sarcopenia and increased risk of disease, but you didn't need a hand grip strength dynamometer to tell you that. Second, your relative grip strength might actually be more of like a metabolic ceiling. Being strong for your size is a proxy for muscle quality and, as recent data suggests, perhaps cardiometabolic health. More research is needed here, but it's certainly interesting. Third, direct grip training is probably not beneficial for health compared to indirect training, training the whole system or the whole body. We need to strengthen everything and not pander to the test. The grip will follow. All right, that's it for this podcast on Barbell Medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Remember, everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Have a great week. Have a great day.

=== FILE: Women's Fitness Myths, Cycle Syncing, & Fasted Cardio DEBUNKED with Dr. Lauren Colenso-Semple [Owd16o1tum0].txt ===

 aut autopril, cschoppoop教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教教 in Space takes on fitness. It's an honor to welcome Dr. Colenzo Semple to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you for joining me. How's it going? It's going great. Thanks for having me. Did I miss anything in your CV? I don't want to miss any of the top things you've done over the past, I don't know, you've probably been in this, what, like 15 years, 10 years, something like that? I'm a co-owner of the Mass Research Review. That's right. Yeah, I knew you wrote for Mass. Okay, cool. So how did you get into this space? Was it like, okay, I'm into fitness, I'm into science, and then just bringing them together? Or like, what was, how did you get here? I actually have an undergraduate degree in psychology, and you can't really do much with that except get another degree or get an unrelated job. So I got an unrelated job. And I was always really into fitness. I was actually a runner in my late teens, early 20s, ended up getting a stress fracture and wore the boot, the rehab was terrible. And I really, it really put me off running. And that's when I got into lifting. So while I was working my corporate job, I started teaching group fitness and just training a few clients on the side, just for fun, just because I loved fitness. And I ultimately ended up leaving my real job, developing my own kind of training business in New York City at the time. And I was interested in the science and kind of muscle physiology more specifically, because I was trying to get the best results for myself and for my clients at the time. And I hounded Brad Schoenfeld for a while to let me volunteer in his lab, because it was convenient, took the took the train up from Manhattan. And that was a good sort of foray into what what it's like to work in the lab in that kind of applied setting. And I decided ultimately that I wanted to go back to school and moved to Florida, got the master's and then moved to Canada, got the PhD. Oh, yeah. OK. So you've been really all over North America just with your education. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's valuable that I have the background as a coach, because even now, having spent time in labs that are much more well, both kind of applied and translational and then much more molecular, I can try to bridge that gap and we can have a conversation about what's scientifically interesting. And then how should we actually communicate the important stuff to the general public? Yeah. Yeah. I get similar. I'm sure you get this feedback. I'd be curious on your take is like people say, oh, you went to medical school just to be a coach. I'm like, well, no, that's a separate skill set. The medical training is useful for like interpreting public health research, obviously applying that and then my own specialty and such. And I was a coach before. But yeah, all of the science communication is heavily, you know, pushed in in medical training. And so people probably ask you, like, look, you have all these degrees just so you can so you can coach people. Like I do more than that, I assume. Yeah. I mean, I don't really do any one on one coaching anymore. Now my goal is more to communicate to those who coach others or to those who work with others in a clinical setting. And so I think it's really important, though, because there are so many mixed messages nowadays. And I mean, that's really what encouraged me to even start being more active on social media is because I realized, you know, for so long, a lot of the science that we're doing stays in our own scientific bubble. And so it's a handful of people reading each other's research. And why are we doing human subject research about exercise when it's not getting pushed out to the people who can actually use it? Or conversely, if people are saying things that aren't supported by the science, then we do need to bridge that gap and make sure that there isn't just this huge divide such that you can kind of communicate whatever you want to the public or to your potential customers. And then the scientists are kind of sitting behind the scenes, not chiming in. Yeah. Yeah. There's a interesting thing with like if it's misinformation or if it's intentional, like disinformation, not only the definitions thereof, but like what to do about it. Is it do we actively push back? Is that the does that need to happen? Is do we start earlier, better education for the public so there's something more scientifically literate? It's it's tricky. But I side with you that I do think this stuff needs to be called out on some level, ideally to maybe have some sort of counter anchor, you know, out there where it's like, look, so and so is saying this. It appears to be credible. I don't know what to make of it. And is anybody saying anything to the contrary? And I do think that needs to be there. Yeah, because I think, unfortunately, especially social media is very it really pushes controversial takes. And so if you frame something as five things you're doing wrong or five things your doctor won't tell you or, you know, they love that kind of content. And so if your goal is to deliver measured, fairly simplified, you know what, do what you prefer. That's not going viral on Instagram. The algorithm does not reward either nuance or like very, you know, public facing takes that aren't controversial. Yeah, you need to need to make somebody mad in order to get pushed by the algorithm, I think. Which is really unfortunate. But I think that what I mean, people will say, oh, you know, I'm a myth buster or I'm debunking this or that. And I never really intended to get into the myth busting space. But it was more of a sense that I realized that a lot of this information really does affect people's lives, the way that they are trying to incorporate health promoting behaviors. And so if we are with those out there are making it so complicated or so unattainable that they end up just throwing their hands up and saying, you know, fitness isn't for me, then that's the worst possible outcome. So it's worth pushing back to kind of reach those people and say, hey, hey, some of this is not true. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or at least and at least raise their skepticism just a little bit like maybe. Yeah, I think so much of the information that's out there is that very binary, like you should never do this or you have to do that. Or instead of saying, actually, you know, there's many ways to be healthy. There's many ways to be fit. Totally. Yeah. People are like, what do you recommend for exercise? I'm like, well, how much time do you have? Because if it's 60 seconds, it's going to be fairly generalized. And there's a bunch of ways to, you know, that lead pass that lead to Rome. But then I would want to know more about the individual to like tailor that. But sure. Yeah. Public facing stuff is going to be, you know, broad by definition. And people prefer more concrete, more binary stuff, just generally speaking, which you're well aware of from the comment sections that you've been dragged into, I'm sure. Well, let's get into the first of today's topics, your recent debate on the Docs Who Live podcast with the Nadolsky brothers against Dr. Stacey Sims. I apologize in advance. I know that you've probably been getting a lot of people reaching out about this. I assume mostly positive. We'll get into that. So she has almost a million followers. Her books roar and next level have sold ton of copies. She's been platformed on popular podcasts such as Mel Robbins, Huberman Lab. But despite her popularity and academic pedigree, some in the space like you and I have serious issues with the accuracy of many of her claims regarding exercise in women and also just training at large. So just general question. This podcast was recently released. How did that go? Well, I was happy that she was willing to do it. I think, unfortunately, we weren't really able to accomplish what I would have hoped, given that we only had an hour. And the real shortfall was that she kept kind of promising that there were papers that I and the docs were unaware of. Right. And as a scientist who's not a complete narcissist, I wasn't about to say, I know the literature front to back. And there couldn't possibly be a paper that I haven't heard of. So I was trying to be measured and say, you know, I'm pretty skeptical that that's out there. But I look forward to reading it when you send it over. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's got to be interesting, because if somebody is saying, look, what I'm saying is evidence based. And you're like, look, as a scientist and a science communicator, show me the data. And if so, I'm willing to change my mind. A hundred percent. But being involved in the space and being aware of papers that come out on a regular basis in your area of interest and expertise, it'd be unlikely that you would be unaware of an entire like cadre of papers suggesting the diametric opposite of what you believe right now. It'd be hard to rationalize those two things. That's right. And I'm also really familiar with the claims that she makes. And I've done the deep dive on my own time to to say. But I mean, prior to that debate, certainly to say, hey, am I missing something here? Because she's so confidently says this stuff on these huge platforms. And so I have spent the time really looking for some concrete data that would support the claims. And I have not found it. I found rodent data. I found kind of potential mechanisms that you can squish together to then maybe come up with that as a hypothesis. But she did send over her reference list after. And for for people listening, if you go to the episode, my references and hers are both linked in the show notes of that podcast. And I was not surprised by some new paper that I wasn't aware of. Yeah, you're like, oh, my gosh, this thing just came out in 2025. Oh, my God. My whole thoughts on cycle syncing have changed now. All right. Well, let's start there, because one of the specific topics discussed was cycle syncing. So adapting training and nutrition approaches based on the different phases of a women's menstrual cycle. Dr. Sims is of the opinion that this would offer numerous benefits to presumably health, training outcomes, adherence and so on and so forth. What, in your opinion, does the science actually say here about doing that, meaning that people would have specific types of training during the luteal phase, specific types of training during the follicular phase and maybe some some nutrition stuff in there? This is one of the greatest examples of inappropriate extrapolation from rodent data. So when we look at rodents with their ovaries removed, meaning you've completely shut down hormone production, there appears to be something going on with muscle, meaning they are losing their ability to maintain muscle. And then you can kind of reverse this loss with a synthetic estradiol. So very interesting model. But what does this mean for humans? First, the ovary ectomy model is not even like menopause because the menopause transition is a gradual shift, whereas this is a radical surgery where you are just immediately shutting down hormones. And it's certainly dissimilar to the short term fluctuations that we would see throughout a menstrual cycle. So when we we can hypothesize, hey, is there something about estradiol that's anabolic? And that's what people have hypothesized. And then when you actually measure it in humans in the menstrual cycle context, we see very similar protein synthetic and breakdown responses during the peak estradiol or late follicular compared to that peak progesterone or mid luteal. And then when we look at the menopause transition, estrogen based therapies do not seem to affect muscle loss or muscle maintenance. So we see this reasonable hypothesis generated from a rodent model that just doesn't really pan out in humans. And that happens all the time. Yeah, that's I really wanted to drive that point home to our listeners is that most the rodent or animal models and or petri dish models or other mechanisms, their hypothesis generating studies. And so then you need to go test those in humans. And there are many instances in not only medicine, but also health, fitness, et cetera, where we don't have human data. And at that point, it's basically a hedge. It's a guess. But when people and when scientists and researchers kind of make recommendations based on an absence of data, they tend to caveat that heavily. They're like, look, this is a consensus statement. We don't really have good evidence in humans. More research is necessary. Right. That thing that ends at the of every paper. But when there's direct evidence in humans looking at the specific question that flips, rebuts the mechanism, mechanistic hypothesis that someone's come up with, you either need to reject the hypothesis or modify it in some fashion. It seems like she's not really doing that for unknown reasons. I don't know. Yeah, it's strange because she said, oh, I've changed my mind on this a little bit. But then she went into how so many women aren't even ovulating and how all of the the kiss peptin neurons are going to affect your training outcomes. And then we need to adjust recovery and nutrition. And so I think you you haven't publicly changed your stance on it at all. And it's one of those examples. I mean, I think the the crux of the issue is if you're going to brand women are not small men, then anything you say that contradicts that mantra starts to take away from that brand. Yeah. Yeah. That's interesting. I mean, it is just, you know, the the most charitable take here, at least in my estimation, you can I want you to weigh in on this is that if the body of research in humans, in women with different training protocols based on their their menstrual cycle has not to date panned out, meaning that if you do it this way, this we think, oh, the cycle syncing has not produced better hypertrophy outcomes, better strength outcomes, better body composition trajectory, better health proxies and so on and so forth. But then the most charitable take here is like, well, they didn't do the specific protocol that I would advise during the, you know, follicular phase and the luteal phase. They did. It was something different, but it wasn't what I would recommend. That's like the only way that you could kind of keep that mantra going without kind of walking it back. At least that's how I'm giving her a charitable out here. That's hard, given this specific example, because earlier data, they didn't actually many papers. They didn't track hormones. They didn't track ovulation. They just assumed, yeah, everyone has a 28 day cycle and everyone ovulates on day 14. So we have equal length phases. Right. And then and then at the end of the paper, they would conclude that these findings are due to high estradiol or low estradiol. But you didn't even measure it. And so that drove me absolutely nuts. So the work that I have done, I meticulously tracked cycles for months and then measured all the hormones and did a within subject design. So you can tightly control everything. And other papers have come out that have employed the same far better methodologies. And so I don't think you can discount the more recent, clearly higher quality data. I think the only thing you can say is menstrual symptoms are experienced differently by different women at different times. And you should feel free to adjust your training as needed the same way that you would have an auto regulatory component of a training program for a whole host of other reasons. Yeah. Yeah. We talk about this in our seminar quite, quite a bit when it turned our special populations lecture, which interestingly is basically kind of. Removing that that label from folks for like, look, people, women are a special population when it comes to training. And not not so much outside of a very special subset of conditions where there are some additional considerations, maybe perhaps around pregnancy, for example, or older individuals. It's like, well, the real consideration here is that most older individuals are under loaded and under trained. That's the real big problem here. Not that like you're a special organism. We have to do all these special training things. But rather, it's the same consideration for any individual that your unique experience, in this case, during the menstrual cycle, that's real, that's valid. And let's have a component of your program that makes it dynamically adjustable to what you need on a given training day or series of training days. Same thing nutritionally. It's based on the individual, not necessarily like, well, you happen to have a high estrogen level right now, estradiol level or a high progesterone level. That's probably not the key to unlocking somebody's, you know, fitness, fitness adaptations. Especially because nobody even knows. What are you doing? Measuring your hormones every single day? Of course not. Let's go. So you're making assumptions that you have this hormone profile on a given number of days that you may or may not have, which really doesn't make a lot of sense. And I think the most detrimental version of this messaging is to say, this week you should plan on feeling terrible and performing poorly. Because as soon as I've told you that, as my athlete, of course you're going to feel worse and perform worse. Yeah. Little nocebo never hurt anyone. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Yeah. So I think, would it be fair to say that based on your interpretation of the current evidence and your current, you know, sort of thinking about this, that based on a woman's menstrual cycle, there are no unique considerations to training or nutrition outside of the individual's experience? Absolutely. I like that. All right. Cool. One for one so far. I like that. I like when my bias is confirmed. No. I think this should be good news. And so it's very strange that some people are so upset when I speak about it. Right. Because, like, anything that makes it simpler should be better because then you have more options. Way more options. Yep. It doesn't have to be so specific, so complicated. It's like, nope, you can kind of do whatever you want, to be honest. Yeah. Yeah. Next, there was a pretty interesting discussion about fasted cardio. Dr. Sim suggesting there's a real risk for women to perform their conditioning and or other workouts without eating before. What's your take on this? Is this perilous for women? This is a strange one. And, again, I went through all of her references, and there's not a single example of people actually performing fasted training on a regular basis and then them gaining more body fat or losing muscle. Or having some sort of endocrine dysfunction at the end of that training period. Meanwhile, we have four studies that I can think of just off the top of my head that have done that and have measured changes in body composition after six weeks, eight weeks, 12 weeks of regular fasted training. And there are no differences in changes in fat mass, changes in muscle thickness, even changes in strength performance, which may surprise some people. But really, it comes down to overall calories and protein. And when we wake up in the morning and we go to the gym fasted, it's not like we are running on empty. We still have stored glycogen from yesterday when we had dinner. And so I think this whole message is kind of pushing a narrative that you have no nutrient availability whatsoever. And so you're going to the gym and you're going to immediately lose muscle and your cortisol is going through the roof. And therefore, there will be hormonal disruption and potential fat gain. Those are all of the things that I heard her say in that conversation. Oh, God. And we don't have evidence to support any of that. And we do have evidence to suggest the contrary, that it really isn't that important. Yeah. Having similarly done a deep dive on like, OK, fasted training, is this terrible for outcome? Not just in women, but in just people, humans in general. And really what you see is that when someone is not used to it, right, they normally would train fed. And then you put them in an experimental model where all of a sudden, out of nowhere, they're training fasted. There may be a performance decline in the short term, right? But if you stretch that out over eight weeks, 12 weeks, more weeks, the actual fitness adaptations are very, very similar, such that you couldn't really distinguish between the two groups. If you wanted to like hedge your bets for short-term performance, you probably would want to be fed or maybe have an intro workout snack or something. That's reasonable for like performance in that workout. But long term, as long as the workout is appropriately programmed for the individual and they're working hard, yeah, they're probably going to get similar results. So when people freak out about, hey, I got to switch my workouts to first thing in the morning, what should I do to counter this? I'm like, it probably doesn't matter as long as at the end of the day and really at the end of a longer period of time, your total energy balance is roughly the same. Protein intake has been generally the same. Is that fair to say? You feel like you agree with most of that? I do. Yeah. If this was all a debate about performance, then I would push back very, very little because I think it's probably likely that most people would perform better, especially if you're doing very high intensity work or long endurance exercise. But I think when we look at just the average gym goer, it's far less important because we're just trying to get them to go to the gym and do it consistently. And so if you're saying, oh, you know, if you're going to the gym at 5 a.m., you need to figure out a way to have a meal beforehand. Then you're putting up a major unnecessary barrier. So I think if it's a and there are some people who if they eat right before their workout, they don't feel well. They have GI issues. Yeah. That performance is down. Right. Yeah. So it's not like I'm a proponent of fasted training per se, but I think we should stop the fear mongering about it because you should be allowed to do what you prefer. Maybe experiment with both depending on your schedule, how you train and when you train typically. And then we can just move on. And there's nothing to suggest it's different for women than it is for men. Yeah. To me, there's like three separate claims in here. One is that fasted training in general lowers the short term performance. And I'm like, OK, probably true. More true when it's in the short term setting. A person's not used to it. Right. They haven't like adapted or figured that out. The second claim is that if you do perform your training fasted, something bad is going to happen. You're going to somehow gain fat and not muscle, like whatever. Right. Or not gain strength. You're going to have a maladaptive response to exercise. And I'm like, so there's no evidence showing that at all in humans. So you kind of that's the second claim. And the third claim is that, oh, and by the way, it's much worse for women. And it's like, OK, well, interesting hypothesis. Where's the evidence? And then you look at the evidence in humans and you're like, so that doesn't appear to be true. And so then, yeah, it just comes back to saying that. Why? Why are you saying this? If you guys are watching this on YouTube, that was a shoulder shrug emoji. That's what just happened. Yeah, I wish I knew because I truly don't understand it. And I think maybe there is some kind of mixed in thought about relative energy deficiency and that if you are training fasted, then you're going to immediately put yourself in a state of low energy availability. But that's not true. I mean, low energy availability is chronic, under fueling, over exercising relative to your body composition. And so it's a very different conversation. And so that's why when I hear this pushback of, well, it's only for athletes or it's only for elite performance. But you're going on the Mel Robbins podcast and saying women should never train fasted. Never. Never. That's a lay audience of just women trying to be healthy. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, if you wanted to, again, make a very charitable version of the claim, it's like, look, you have a highly active population, elite level athletes, you know, dozens of hours a week of training. And so if they don't eat before a workout, effectively, they're limited on time availability to eat, which could then cause like a low energy availability status. But again, you would expect that to play out in the research and further that it would apply to a wide swath of the population if you're just saying these things generally, which doesn't seem to be the case. So if you're not going to be the case, low energy availability, reds, all that sort of stuff, these are real issues. But to my knowledge, it is not based on like the time availability to eat where people are just running out of time. I can't eat because I'm exercising so much. Generally, not the proximate cause as far as I can tell. And if you're going to talk about a concern for very elite athletes or extremely lean individuals, clarify. Yeah, just say it. It's like saying, you know, this advice is for pro bodybuilders, but all men should. Yeah, exactly. Wait, what? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that kind of brings me to the final thought here with respect to Dr. Sims and moreover to people like Andrew Huberman, Rhonda Patrick, et cetera. There's just a lot of this what I like to call generous extrapolation of mechanistic studies, despite either no human evidence to support the specific claim or intervention or evidence to the contrary. It's curious, though, like why does this happen? Why do you think this is so common? Is it our short attention spans and incentivizing clickbait content over nuanced science communication? Or do you think I don't want to put you on the hot seat, but you think this is like some sort of nefarious intent here? Is the question why are they doing it or why are they? OK, well, I think when you say something no one else is saying it, people take it as you have some secret. And so people people. Other people aren't saying it because they don't know what, you know, and that's very powerful. And that gets a lot of attention. And when you start talking about mechanisms that sound very complex and frankly, no one really knows what you're talking about, then you sound very intelligent. It's a good narrative. It's a good narrative. And people will just take your word for it because you aren't explaining things in a way that people can connect with. And that piece of it really bothers me because as somebody who can sit here with you and talk mechanisms and make things sound really complicated, I'm not doing that on a podcast. Why would I do that? Because ultimately we want people to understand the why behind the what. And if you're just saying a whole bunch of what sounds like nonsense and then and therefore here's this thing you should do, then all people hear is here's the thing I should do. Yeah, here's a solution to the problem you don't have. But you don't know that because I'm deceiving you on some level. And yeah, thanks because I've got a boat payment coming up. So I don't know that any of these people have boats, but that's that's just what I assume is happening.  aut aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop up to me than there are many other ways that I think we could have done it. But I just was, I was going to take the opportunity to do it in any capacity. Yeah. Yeah. Shout out to her agreeing to it, at least because that was surprising to me. I'm like, oh, this is not going to go well. This is not going to go well for you. At least, at least to people with scientific training, because you just instantly recognize you're like, you're talking about rat data. This person's talking about human data. So levels of evidence, hierarchy of evidence. This is, it's not really close. So what do we do? And I don't know if you, if you caught that at one point she said she doesn't like meta analyses. Yes. Yeah. I was like, wait, what? Like I've literally never heard any scientist or physician or like who, what? Yeah. What do you like them? Yeah. I think it's fair to say something like, look, if you combine a bunch of data together, depending on the quality of said data, you can have concerns about how that is sort of, you know, sure. The outcome there, what's being concluded from that. Also, so if it's garbage in, garbage out, sure, that's a reasonable concern. Also combining a bunch of data tends to prefer the null, just generally speaking, but that's not a bug. It's more of a feature because only if the effect or the outcome was very, very strong, would it turn up when you combine many, many studies together? Again, assuming that the inclusion criteria and the analysis is done correctly, but yeah, saying that you don't like meta analysis to use a term of the youth is crazy. I don't understand. Yeah. No, I mean, I think you bring up a good point and it's true that in the exercise science field, there are some people who will do a meta analysis when it's way too soon to do a meta analysis. Like we got seven papers, everyone calm down. We don't need to be doing a meta analysis. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's well said. So another thing I wanted to talk about is what I somewhat jokingly, but sometimes in a sad way refer to as the pink tax for women in the fitness industry. These many things are marketed directly to women, such as specific types of exercise, like Pilates or walking with weighted vest, testing of various hormone levels and specific like creatine supplements. You got to take this pink gummy, whatever. Let's talk about a few of these things. So I wanted to start with a topic. I recently published a podcast on walking with a weighted vest. What's your take on this? Cause on Tik TOK, it's all over the place. Oh, you, you can get more out of your walking. It's basically like resistance training. It's good for bone mineral density, muscle, et cetera. What's your, what's your take on walking with a weighted vest? I think anything that gets you physically active is good, but land the podcast. That's it. Um, but I've spoken out about weighted vests a lot because the people who are promoting them are using science quote unquote, that doesn't actually support the message they claim it shows. And so it was, goes back to what we were talking about with, with the fasted training or the cycle syncing, you know, if we're going to say going for 30 minute walks with a weighted vest increases bone mineral density or increases muscle mass or promotes fat loss, we actually need to see that happen over time. And the only paper I'm aware of that we have, it's remotely similar to that. Meaning one group walked on a treadmill with a vest and the other group did not. It was exactly the same. There were no differences in adaptations between groups. And so the studies that people are using instead are studies where a group was wearing a weighted vest, but doing squats and lunges and jumping exercises compared to a group of people who were doing nothing. And what that tells us is that exercise is better than no exercise. Totally. Yeah. I mean, there's also studies and I'm sure you've seen these where people are wearing weighted vests for eight hours, 10 hours that they're supposed to wear them all day. Yeah. Just to see like, Oh, what would happen? Is this a viable way to get people to either lose weight or better maintain weight or have more bone mineral density, more muscle mass, whatever. And then relatively long-term data on this that shows again, no significant difference. And that's statistically significant difference, which is much smaller, generally speaking, than a clinically significant difference. And so I'm open to the idea that weighted vests like might be a way to level up a person's workout, you know, or at least improve their fitness adaptations. I just want to see data to support that. But to my mind, and you can comment on this, the biggest issue with the weighted vest, as far as it like supercharging somebody's results from a given amount of exercise, let's just say both groups are going to exercise, but one person's with the weighted vest, one person's not. And we're talking about conditioning in this particular case. The issue really is that if the weighted vest is heavy enough, most people are going to move more slowly and do it for a shorter duration. So at the end of the day, if we're just talking about like energy utilization, it tends to be, you know, not that much different for a pretty significant weight. And then even if they did the same amount, you're again, you're looking at outcomes and you're like, why is this not different? No, well, instead of rejecting that the weighted vest is some unique way to increase the adaptation from your workout, you should revise your hypothesis and say, maybe it's not heavy enough. Maybe it's something else is going on. At least that's, that's my understanding right now. Well, I think it can be viable for squats, lunges, maybe if you have grip issues and you know, you don't, you want to work out at home, you don't have dumbbells, maybe that there's a use case there. Sure. But often what I hear people say is, well, it's getting my heart rate up or, okay, well, why do you want to get your heart rate up? Why are we tracking heart rate? What's your goal that would, for which heart rate tracking is meaningful? Because a lot of people are just tracking these things to track them. And when, let's say you're training for a marathon, then sure, I understand we want to train in these different heart rate zones. And hopefully that will be the optimal method for improving your endurance running performance. You know, we're going to do a lot of the zone two, and then we're going to throw in some sprint intervals. And maybe we should track your heart rate for that. But to just say, I'm like, my heart rate is higher with a vest than it is without a vest. Well, you could also walk up a hill. You could also walk faster. Sure. You could also use cocaine. You could also be scared. You could also have some sort of arrhythmia. Like there's a lot of ways to get your heart rate up. Sure. And the way... And it's not like a carte blanche good thing. No, no. It matters why your heart rate is elevated. And then what's the purpose? As you mentioned, that's, you know, yeah, your heart rate's higher, but like, is it because you're requiring your muscles to produce more force? And if that's the case, like, does it actually signal the adaptations that you want? Yeah. I do think you're right, though, with the use case for weighted vests for like resistance training applications at home, for example, if they don't have, you know, you could use a weighted backpack for that. But yeah, when I see people strap, I see people on a treadmill at the gym with the backpack on and they're like, and I'm like, yeah, you're expending more energy a little bit compared to if you were walking at the same pace for the same duration, whatever, without, you know, the backpack on. But I don't know that that is net good, meaning that, oh, you're going to lose more weight or you're going to gain more muscle mass or preserve more muscle, something like that. To date, the studies don't seem to show that anyway. They don't. And I think it's also important, and this is often really misunderstood, is that if you just start exercising and then you're saying, well, I'm burning more calories and maybe you're tracking them on your wearable. First, wearables are horrible for tracking that. So I would suggest nobody use that data for anything ever. But even if we do sort of map out the expected weight loss over time from the expected energy expenditure with all of this exercise, we see if you aren't really monitoring your nutrition, a lot of people will end up eating a little bit more. They just compensate. And if yes, you're exercising more, but perhaps you are moving less the rest of the day and there's some sort of shift there where you end up losing about 20 to 50 percent of what you would have anticipated if you really modeled it all out. And so that's why I think so often when people just rely on exercise for weight loss, it ends up being pretty disappointing. And so to throw in this example of weighted vest and burning more calories, think we're missing the mark here. We shouldn't be doing it for that reason. Yeah. Are you familiar with the gravitostat model of energy? Yeah. So this research group out of Sweden for the listeners who didn't listen to the weighted vest podcast that we did, they implanted these small weights in rodent abdomens. And what they found was with this implanted weight, the rodents actually lost an equivalent amount of body mass in response to that, thinking like, oh, maybe the bones are sensing this added load. And it's like, ah, let's lose some additional weight so that we can maintain homeostasis. Hasn't played out in humans, but that's kind of what prompted the idea of, hey, what would happen if we had humans wear weighted vests all day? Would that do the same thing? As it turns out, even if you wear a weighted vest for like 10 hours a day, that unfortunately is not going to be the solution to the obesity epidemic, as it were. And it's another example of, you know, we study rodents because they're simpler systems. They're very easy to tightly control, but ultimately they have different metabolisms. They have different reproductive systems. And often what we see in this simple model doesn't play out in a more complex and dynamic human model. Nope. Nope. That never happens. Never. Yeah. Yeah. It's a big surprise for people, again, because do your own research, whatever, you see this thing, oh, it's in rats. So that probably transfers over to humans. Most of the time it doesn't, unfortunately. And we've seen it time and time again with fasting, with artificial sweeteners. And we've seen it. Yeah. And yet people, but, and going back to a lot of the kind of popular credentialed influencers or science communicators, they rarely say, I've changed my opinion on this. And I was really heavily relying on this rodent data. And now that we have a couple of years of human data, I realized that I, I maybe shouldn't have been making recommendations in all of my books and podcasts for you guys to fast for three days. Can you imagine? When has that ever happened? You know? Yeah. Well, you know what? It'd be funny. Interestingly, if someone did that, right? They'd be like, and I wrote a new book about it. There you go. There's your, there's your, there's the incentive to do so. Yeah. Yeah. It's unfortunate. The next thing I wanted to talk about was creatine. I've seen, obviously on, on your social media, you've been posting about that, especially because it's become topical with respect to cognitive function and quote brain health and such. So should women be taking creatine? And if so, do they need a specific type of creatine? No. And this is an excellent example of pink tax because the creatine that is now marketed to women is pink and it makes all sorts of crazy claims. Like it's going to build muscle, build your glutes specifically, eliminate cellulite, restore energy. I mean, it's so, so sad. And it's also twice the price, sometimes three times the price than if you just get the tried and true creatine monohydrate from wherever, which we know works and everything that's more expensive isn't better. It just isn't. It's just more expensive. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. And so it's, I mean, it's cool, I guess, that people are paying attention to creatine, but creatine has been around forever. Creatine is not new. And so the way that it's being kind of repackaged and marketed specifically to women is part of this wave of push to especially perimenopausal women that is extremely supplement focused and hormone focused and really neglects to mention the really important basics like lifting weights, like regular physical activity, like a nutritious diet. And so then you get people really, really focused on these kind of small potatoes where it's like, if you're not exercising, don't take creatine. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, you can, it's just probably not going to do anything, you know? Right. And even if you are exercising, what it will do is minimal. You probably won't even notice that you're taking it. It's so weird. I feel like sometimes I'm like the killer of joy, you know, because people are like, I'm going to take creatine. And I'm like, great, probably had a modest effect, but generally safe. Here's the dosing, go forth and prosper, you know? And they're like, what do you, what do you mean modest improvements? I'm like, well, it's not going to change your life. You know, like a little bit of strength, a little bit of maybe extra hypertrophy at the end of a long training term, some other benefits. But they're like, what about like brain health? It's good for my brain, right? I've been reading all about this that, you know, can improve cognitive performance after sleep deprivation and this, that, and the other. And I'm like, well, maybe, but, but the outcomes that have been measured, you know, and the changes in from placebo compared to the intervention arm are not like earth shattering, you know, but people see that these reports, the studies that look published in these journals that are to their mind, highly reputable and such. And they're like, I got to take this for, for brain health. I'm like, I don't know that creatine is a nootropic is, you know, so far. Yeah. Yeah. And I think we need to acknowledge that the populations in which this has been studied are at some sort of deficit. And so we're talking about Alzheimer's patients, or as you said, 24 hour, 48 hour sleep deprivation or clinical depression in combination with an SSRI. And so this isn't like healthy people getting some brain boost. Yeah, exactly. The way that it's like, oh yeah, you know, I'm going to grab my cup of coffee and then I'm going to feel more awake. It's not, it's not that. And importantly, these studies that are, that are using really high doses, people need to be aware that a lot of people experience GI issues when they start taking 10, 20 grams of creatine per day. So I don't think we were there yet to be recommending it to the masses. This is kind of an aside, but like invariably, and I'm sure if you've ever done some sort of talk on creatine, do you publicly face it and you're like, look, it's one of the most studied supplements that we have, if not the most studied supplement, which that happens to be true. But there are still gaps in our knowledge there. Like for example, if you wanted to feel confident in, well, how many people are responders to creatine with respect to like musculoskeletal outcomes, or in this case, cognitive outcomes, you don't really have great data on like, who's a non-responder, who's a responder or whatever. And like, how are we ascertaining that? There's some evidence there. It's not zero evidence, but it's not like as much evidence as we have on strength performance, for example. And so if you really wanted to feel confident, I'm going to give a thousand people creatine and a third are going to be responders and a third are going to be pseudo responders and a third are going to be non-responders. It's just like, that's based off a trial on seven people. So we should temper that. Again, it doesn't mean you can't take it, but like there are some gaps in our knowledge base here. Yeah. I mean, what hasn't been done and done well is to say, okay, coming in at baseline, what are your actual creatine stores, either in muscle or brain? And then once we start supplementing and that is saturated, you know, your proverbial cup is full, then what did it take to get you from baseline to there? And what are the performance effects, if any? Yeah. We see the same thing in vitamin D research. It's like, okay, we need to measure the vitamin D levels prior to intervention. Then we need to apply the intervention, like a supplement, for example, and then remeasure vitamin D levels to show, okay, it did improve that. And oh, by the way, that's correlated with these specific improvements in outcomes. And when that's been done, it's like, oh, vitamin D actually doesn't really change the course here so much. And people want to hear that. They're like, so you're saying not to take vitamin D? My doctor told me to take it or this public health agency told me to take it. I'm like, I'm not saying don't take it. It's dangerous, whatever. I just am not confident it's doing anything based on available evidence. And I suspect that these individuals recommending it, if they were aware of the evidence, they'd probably concede that they're like, this is mostly a hedge because we see abnormal value. We want to treat the value, but we don't really know if it works. That's, that'd be the honest take, I think. And I think depending on what we're talking about, sometimes it really only matters that we achieve the outcome that's intended, right? So when you think about menopause hormone therapy, you're, you're not actually treating to a hormone level, you're treating to alleviate those symptoms. So that's an example of, well, it's not actually important those before and after numbers necessarily. What, what we're really focusing on is that outcome. And I think given the, the, the safety and price of creatine, I would probably say, well, you know, if, if you want to, then kind of sure. Go off. You can do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I think it also comes back to your kind of personal feelings on supplements in general. And are you somebody who is just going to take it? Cause why not? Or do you actually want to make sure that you're taking it for a reason? And I think in this whole discussion about supplements, we often forget the word supplement that we're like, why are we taking that? It's not that everything is going to make you better. It's maybe, oh, you are lacking something and then we're kind of bringing that up. And I think that gets lost because people are just obsessed with wanting to take supplements. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Huge industry as it turns out. The next exercise trend on trend, again, as the youth would say, is Pilates. Pilates. And again, I did a podcast on this as well. And I saw that you get some content on this too. So this isn't the shit on Pilates section, but like the shoe fits. Wear it. Are Pilates really sufficient for resistance training in women? I think it's not just Pilates. It's a whole host of exercise programs that have been marketed to women for a very long time. So it's the bar classes. It's the spin classes holding the dumbbells where you're supposedly intermittently doing some upper body work, Pilates and yoga. And I think just the theme is women have been marketed ineffective exercise programs for as long as I can remember. It's just the flavor of that changes every few years. Pilates is fine. Again, all physical activity is good. If you love it, do it. But what people misunderstand is if you actually want to build muscle, then we need adequate resistance and adequate force production such that we are able to contract and stimulate muscle growth over time. And when we are in this sort of unstable position that inevitably compromises the force we are able to produce against a given load. So even if you're doing something like a reformer Pilates and you have a weight attached to your ankle or a weight attached to your wrist, you're in that unstable position. And it's the same reason why unstable surface training, like standing on a BOSU or doing a chest press on a stability ball, isn't as effective as the traditional resistance training. And it's also much more difficult to progress over time because even something like a reformer isn't going to have the resistance options. And often these exercises aren't set up in a way where progressive overload is really the method, part of the method. Yeah. I think also people conflate if something is hard, it's going to be useful, like proportional to the difficulty, right? The harder it is, the better it is for me. There's maybe some kernel of truth to that. Like you do have to work adequately hard during exercise to get the most out of your training. But just because something is, quote, harder doesn't make it better. We don't need more difficulty. We just need more better as far as it being appropriately programmed to the individual. Yeah. I mean, I think a great example of that is if I were to hold a one pound dumbbell and bring my arm out to the side and just hold my arm up straight out like this in a sort of lateral raise position, my shoulder is going to start to burn. But am I building muscle mass in my shoulder by just holding it here? Not effectively. No. Yeah. Maybe strength endurance, you know, in that particular position being specific. But it's like, is that that's what you want? Like I can imagine if there's a sport where that's involved, if you're a strongman competitor, you know, maybe doing that, you know, for the Iron Cross or whatever the event is, it might be specific to your sport. But like it's hard. It just doesn't mean that it's actually useful for what you're wanting to get out of exercise. And I think that goes back to what we were discussing before with the vests. It's what is the goal here? What are we measuring and what are we programming? What are we implementing? And the problem is that the way a lot of these classes and methods are marketed, it's, oh, you're going to get ripped abs in 12 weeks, or you're going to have these long lean lines. You're going to look like a ballerina. It's all these promises about dramatic changes in body composition. And you aren't getting those with a group fitness class. You're just not. And so it's really that's the mismatch between what people are expecting to get out of it and then what they're actually getting out of it when there is a more effective option out there. Yeah. No hate comms against Pilates. Like, again, as you mentioned, any exercises is good. 10 out of 10 would recommend. But I would also I would recommend that to be like an adjunctive sort of exercise modality to traditional resistance training and obviously some conditioning as well. Do it all. But yeah, probably not going to get there with just Pilates. OK, so this is maybe the one. I don't know what the women's fitness market is, but I'm sure it's in the billions of dollars. Why do you think that women are such common targets or like even, unfortunately, victims of all of this messaging and direct marketing? Like as a woman, you need to do this or this is geared directly towards you. Why does that happen? I think women are constantly I think people, but but women are looking for that next thing. And so what I see just sort of anecdotally is that while men will be happy kind of going to the gym and doing the same thing for an extended period of time, women will be looking for that next program or that next class or that next piece of equipment or and so we're switching things up to our detriment. Because if you actually want the results, you actually want to accomplish the goal. You need to stick to something for long enough to actually experience those adaptations. And I think midlife women are a very easy target because you're getting people who are experiencing changes in their body composition, are experiencing perhaps menopause related symptoms and sleeplessness and they're confused and they're desperate and they want to prioritize their health and fitness and they have some income that to spend. And so then it creates this perfect storm of grift. Yeah, no, that's well said. I am in agreement, especially because, you know, when you look at the fitness landscape at large, predominantly men, there's a lot of, quote, subject matter experts, even if they're not real experts that are male and are talking predominantly to male centric audiences. You know, think about the competitive powerlifter, competitive bodybuilder space that and the spaces adjacent to those. Mostly dudes, right? And that market is saturated with other dudes trying to say, hey, look, do this method, do this thing. Women are, in my estimation, a more, like, vulnerable or ripe, like, market because there's not as many subject matter experts, particularly legitimate experts, generally underserved with respect to the actual research in women. You know, there's less of them actually being physically active also. And so, yeah, between that and then, like, experiencing these actual changes that happen in their life, yeah, you're right. It's a perfect storm. And so they're, like, more apt to accept the stuff that's being marketed to them directly, even if it's not great. I think the other issue is that so many women grew up in this sort of era of prioritizing thinness. And so it's very, very difficult to sit down with someone and say, you know what, let's just maintain your weight and really focus on crushing it in the gym and building some muscle. And then we'll worry about fat loss in six months. Yeah. That's a hard sell. Try some of that. I was going to say, I was like, hey, you're trying to go bankrupt? What are you doing? Yeah. But what it means is that people say, I want to prioritize my bone health and my muscle health and my longevity, but they're really saying, I want to lose 20 pounds. And these are divergent goals. And so it's very, very tough because you end up kind of spinning your wheels. You say you want this, but you're not actually doing everything you can in order to optimize your progress towards those goals because you keep coming back to the number on the scale. Yeah. Yeah. Social pressures, the current cultural climate, all sorts of stuff. I mean, obviously this changes over time, but yeah, it is a tough road to navigate, especially for someone who's not already a fitness expert. How do you discern fiction from fact? How do you make sure that you're getting the most out of your efforts? It can be challenging, especially again, like I said, if you're not already well-versed in this sort of stuff. And there are so many conflicting views. If I were to say, okay, how should I work out as a woman? I will get 25 different recommendations. Whereas in the bodybuilder, power lifter, or even just kind of general physique focused male space, I feel like, you know, you're going to have these arguments about a tenth of a gram of protein. At the margin, on the margins, rather than like, everyone's in agreement like, okay, you should lift relatively heavy weights, use compound exercises, predominantly some isolation stuff, get kind of close to failure on a number of these efforts. Try to progressively load that over time as your fitness improves, you know, all sorts of stuff like that. You know, the dietary patterns outside of like very fringe carnivore, you know, type types of fruititarian stuff is general. It's very similar, right? People, yeah, as you mentioned, argue on the margins. When it comes to women, that's not the case. It's like. It's like, oh, you want to power lift? Stop squat benching and deadlifting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. You need to be specific. It's, yeah, it's wild. So actually, it's a perfect segue to like, maybe the most important question I'm going to ask you. What women specific considerations for exercise and nutrition are actually legit, if any? Controversial opinion. There aren't any. Hot take. We need to be. And understand that when I got into this space, I wanted to know these sex differences. I'm a woman. I would be doing the things if they were out there. And I would be telling all the other women to do that, too. So it's not that I'm being contrarian for the sake of it. What we see is, yes, in the mid 2000s, there was a really big gap with a lot of this stuff when it comes to male and female focused data. But we have come quite a long way since then. And we now have examples of a lot of studies that were originally conducted in men. And.  aut autoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop but that is not based on your biological sex. It's based on a whole host of other factors, some of which we might not be able to identify. I think there are plenty from a scientific perspective about inter-individual differences that we don't fully understand, but from a practical perspective, it really needs to come down to you. What are your goals? What is your background? What is your training history? What are your health and injury considerations? What are your preferences? What equipment do you have access to? And then we kind of go down the line and nowhere on that sort of initial questionnaire would I say, and should we give you the program for men or the program for women? Yeah, the inter-individual differences, just as an umbrella term for all the things that make a person a unique biological organism. So not only their genetics and their anatomy and anthropometry, but also their psychology and social environment and everything else. All of those differences collectively are far, far greater than any sex-specific differences, age-specific differences, ethnicity-specific differences. And to my mind, those latter three, age, ethnicity, and sex, don't really play a factor in how I would program for somebody unless it otherwise influenced those individual factors, like you mentioned, current fitness levels, goals, access, preferences, so on and so forth. And so when I see, like, a women's-specific program, I'm like, this kind of is a red flag. Like, if this is really geared to, like, you know, capture people to get an underserved population more active, I don't know that you need to phrase it in this way, but I'm less of a red flag, maybe more of a pink flag there. But if it's like, this is, you know, you got to do this specific stuff because you are XX. And I'm like, not to say that that's the only way that you can be a woman, but in any case, that's another podcast we can talk about. To me, that's a red flag. I'm like, that tells me you don't really understand this sort of stuff, and there's some sort of grift that's going on, and that doesn't sit well with me. It also really ignores a key point, which is when you start exercising, we experience adaptations based on the way that we're exercising. So if you look at things like fiber types or molecular signatures or fuel utilization, those are going to adapt depending on how you are training. And so when I hear people say, well, you know, there's differences in fiber type composition, and therefore you should be doing more of this type of training or more of that type of training. That makes no sense to me because we are going to adapt accordingly depending on the training we do. Therefore, the training we do should be specific to the goal. Yeah. Yep. How you exercise will determine the nature of the adaptations that you get and then how much you exercise will influence the magnitude thereof. So yeah, the program has to be appropriate, but probably unrelated to you being a woman or a man, older, younger, or a particular ethnicity. I think that's well said. All right. A little lightning round question. A series of questions. Thing one, I like to ask people that are guests on the podcast, what is their particular fitness modality of choice? What's your exercise routine look like these days? I'm currently doing a split, like upper body pull, upper body push, lower body. Kind of a bro. You're just doing bro stuff. I am. I'm doing bro stuff. I like it because I prefer shorter sessions. I like to go more frequently, but for a shorter period of time. And I do a mix of free weights and machines. I'm a fan of machines. It's a women's specific program if I've ever heard one. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. I only go on the pink machine. That's right. Yeah, yeah. There you go. And then I like to ask our guests also for either what they're currently reading or a book recommendation if you have one. Anything come top of mind? Oh. I'm currently reading so many papers that I haven't read a book in a very long time. That's fair. I'm embarrassed. I will interject and make a recommendation then in place. Herman Ponser's new book, Adaptability, is very, very good. Unless you just want to read all the papers that Dr. Lauren Klinsa-Semple linked in her debate with Stacey Sims and you can read those because those are listed in that podcast show notes either way. Interestingly. Yeah. That's right. And then last question here is if you get to put a message out to the Barbo Medicine listenership who may be unfamiliar with you or kind of your ethos or whatever, what's one thing that you'd like to communicate to everyone listening to this episode? If somebody tells you there's only one way to accomplish your health and fitness goals, they don't understand exercise-induced adaptations and they don't understand people. Ooh. I like that. Man, we got so many sound bites here. This is great. The algorithm's going to love this. Last but not least, where can people find you? I'm going to link all of this in the show notes, but this is the time where you're at on social media platforms and otherwise. I'm active on Instagram, DrLaurenCS1. I'm the co-owner along with Eric Chexler, Eric Helms, and Mike Zordos of the Mass Research Review. So if you're interested in long-form breakdowns of the latest fitness-related research that kind of bridges the gap from research to practice, then you can check that out, Mass Research Review. And I also have a podcast with my friend Eric Chexler. It's called Front Page Fitness, and it's very light. We look at the latest sort of absurd headlines related to health and fitness, and we laugh about it, and we give you a little bit of information along the way. I love that. All of those things are going to be linked in the show notes below. Thank you guys for tuning in. Special shout-out to Dr. Lauren Colenzo-Semple for joining us on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll catch you next week.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.033410Z ===
