 cschopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposchopposch With like different superlatives, like most likely to be highly educated and well-trained. No. So if this is your first Barbell Medicine podcast, just want to let you know what you're in for. Imagine an episode of House or to be, you know, temporally relevant, The Pit. But like, you know, more accurate and more real. So although The Pit, to its credit, is not bad. As close as I've seen TV yet, I think, in many contexts. And because it's that close, I am deeply uninterested. I'm like, yeah, I don't. Yeah, dude, I've done this before. I'm so out. Yeah. You're like, isn't it interesting to you? Like as a medical, you know, medical provider? I'm like, no, it's the opposite of it. It's like the last thing I want to spend my free time doing is like rehashing, you know, this sort of stuff. I'd watch any documentary on legitimately anything else. I didn't. You know what? I might even watch sports. Like if forced. So that's fair. Yeah. In any case, this is your first podcast. I present the information to Dr. Baraki bit by bit. And he takes us through his thought process. And ultimately, we arrive at a diagnosis. We'll see if he gets the diagnosis correct. And it's fun edutainment, hopefully, for all involved. Now, we did actually get some positive feedback that I think, yeah, it actually caused an emotion in the normally very stoic Dr. Baraki. So this is exciting. Yeah, I'll let you share the story. Yeah. I mean, this was a style of podcast episode that was inspired by one of my other favorite podcasts that I listened to. We've talked about a bit before. And at first, it was almost like for my own entertainment to be engaged in some of the topics that we discuss from time to time. But sure enough, these episodes have gotten quite a lot of positive feedback from listeners who either enjoy it as lay people or people who are medical adjacent or who are in medicine themselves. So you told me this story that you received. I'll just kind of read the story that was told to us. This person said they had a bit of a mystery case of their own at Orange Theory a few months ago. I said that I had a bit of a side-to-side discrepancy. So I suspected it was something more serious. I told him to rest for a couple of minutes. And if it didn't subside or if it got worse, that he should leave class to get evaluated. He asked what it could be. And I told him that I was concerned enough about a few rare but potential high-risk, no-miss issues, such as compartment syndrome, a venous or arterial issue like a clot or thoracic outlet syndrome. I'm obviously not a physician and didn't have a complete health history on this person. So I was trying not to be alarmist while also taking into account it could be something serious and that evaluation by a physician would be best. Ultimately, he decided to walk up the street to urgent care to be safe. Well, yesterday, he returned to class for the first time since the incident and told me that the day I sent him to urgent care, he received an ultrasound that showed signs of no flow in his right arm. They sent him to the emergency department where he was found to have thoracic outlet syndrome. He was taken to the cath lab to remove multiple clots in his neck and arm and is undergoing further workup with the potential for the removal of a rib. He thanked me for raising his sense of urgency. Thought I'd share because the Mystery Case podcasts have definitely helped me sift through and organize how I'd think about a problem like this and also gave me pertinent background information on diagnoses like this. So that is super awesome. I would be I am thrilled when I hear that kind of thing, even from my medical trainees and residents, mainly when they tell me, you know, by going through these exercises, I learned how to think about a problem, how to organize my thought process in a systematic way. And hearing that this was something that was even doable by a non clinician and non physician is even better because it just shows that this is at least being delivered in a way that is accessible to where people are like, yeah, this is this is doable. I can do it with it with a bit of background knowledge of some anatomy, some physiology and learning how to how we kind of think in an organized way. I think this person was able to help somebody big time because limb ischemia, lack of blood flow into an arm or a leg is bad. Yeah, zero out of 10 would not would not recommend. Biggest takeaways for me on that particular kind of like report was that one, staying calm during the during the incident. And also not wanting to raise unnecessary alarm in a person you don't know. And oh, by the way, you're not a medical provider. So like not, you know, overstepping. Right. And then to trying to figure out, like, well, what am I worried about that if I were to miss this, something bad would happen. Right. It's just phenomenally well done. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very impressive. Cool. All right. Before we get into this, a few announcements. So, yes, we did just release our general strength and conditioning one template, the second generation. This one is far more expansive than the first generation. So there is our in season program that we include three and four day options and a lot more sort of self-directed management in this program. So you get to kind of choose your own adventure as far as goals, as far as a total amount of training volume, as far as how the whole program is set up. So a lot more flexibility for folks. Also, speaking of programs, if you've ever wanted access to all of our programs, some sort of subscription type service. Well, we do offer that now through our program library. It's $12.99 per month that is linked in the show notes below. And we keep releasing new templates and you always have access to them. We also have new articles on the website, how to train while losing weight, what to do about elbow pain when you're a lifter, also what to do with shoulder pain if you're a lifter. So those are some of our new articles on the website. Those are linked in the description below. We also just launched our testosterone course with Dr. Austin Baraki as your instructor. And as I keep saying every podcast, he's OK. And then lastly, if you've ever wanted to get your form checked by a barbell medicine coach, we are now offering that for free. Just head over to our website, click the shop tab, scroll down and click form check, and we'll take care of the rest. Get you sorted. Make sure that you're getting the most amount of results from your training. All right. Before we get into the mystery case, I do have to make a prediction. So far, I think my prediction success is pretty high. The rate's pretty high. And so I'm going to endeavor to keep that going. I think you're going to get it. I think I just – You don't need to sound disappointed when you say that. I like – well, the goal, like I want to find something that's interesting to me enough to like do, right? Specifically for the pearls at the end. Like, hey, like why are we even talking about this? Like it can't just be another rhabdo my license case. Sure. You know, for example, from CrossFit. Like, oh, no. Crazy that that happened. But I also want to see you sweat a little bit. Sure. Like I want to – wow, didn't even know that that was a thing. This is not going to be that case, I think. But, hey, I remain optimistic. Are you ready to do this? Let's go. All right. 18-year-old male presents to the emergency department with a recent history of chest pain during soccer. He reports that he had chest pain that felt like his, quote, chest was tight, which also spread to his left arm, along with some, quote, palpitations during a recent soccer practice. He stopped playing at that time, and his symptoms gradually resolved over the next hour when he was being transported to the emergency department. His past medical history is significant for a previous visit to the emergency room for palpitations, where he was observed to have atrial fibrillation that ultimately terminated while he was under observation. He also, at the time, had a ventricular rate of 160 to 180 beats per minute. But, again, while under observation, his heart rate and rhythm returned to normal. He was discharged without treatment and had a follow-up visit scheduled with a cardiologist, which would otherwise be next week, so he hasn't quite seen the cardiologist yet. He has no other past medical history and no family history of cardiovascular disease. He denies the use of drugs, alcohol, tobacco, or dietary supplements. While he was playing soccer during this episode, his main sport is actually rowing. He's currently a competitive rower, rowing for about 13 hours per week, plus regular competitions. So if you're playing along at home, this would be the time where you would pause the podcast, kind of summarize the patient and what you are starting to think about diagnostically. We'll turn it over to Dr. Austin Baraki. What do you think about this patient? Yeah, interesting case. So an 18-year-old without a ton of known medical history coming in, it sounds like, with an episode of what we're going to call exertional chest pain and also associated with recurrent palpitations in the setting of a recent history of atrial fibrillation. So this is a pretty unique presentation, I would say. We've gone over in prior mystery cases kind of how to think about chest pain in general. We tend to think about emergency causes of chest pain relating to the heart and the aorta first. We also think about emergencies relating to the lungs, like a pulmonary embolism or a collapsed lung. We think about other emergencies in the chest, like relating to the esophagus and things like that. So very common first pass differential diagnosis for chest pain. And then there's many other kind of less emergent diagnoses that can cause chest pain that we think about. However, the unique thing in this situation is that this patient is very young, which in some ways can narrow the differential diagnosis, but in some ways broadens it as well, because there can be congenital things that come into play that, you know, I don't tend to think about as much when I'm seeing my more typical patient who's in their 60s or 70s with chest pain. Most of by that time in life, congenital anomalies are not usually something that we're entertaining quite as much on the differential diagnosis. So narrow some things, broadens others. But the aspect of the palpitations, feeling his heart racing, and the established recent history of an arrhythmia or an abnormal heart rhythm called atrial fibrillation changes the way we think about this a ton. Because chest pain together with this cardiac arrhythmia does narrow the differential quite a bit to mainly things affecting the heart and the lungs. You can have structural problems with the heart, like valvular heart disease. You can have other structural problems like hypertrophic cardiomyopathy affecting the heart, as well as electrical problems in the heart. So certain congenital conditions that can predispose you to arrhythmias, things like Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, Regatta syndrome, many others that fit in that category. So either a structural or an electrical problem with the heart. And then sometimes lung problems can also trigger issues like chest pain and atrial fibrillation. For example, a patient with a pulmonary embolism, that's a well-known trigger for atrial fibrillation. Of course, we'd have to then explain why does this kid have a pulmonary embolism if that's the case. That's not where my leading suspicion is at the moment. So right now, I think we need to get a sense of what this patient's vital signs are when we see them and get an immediate electrocardiogram or an EKG. That's going to rapidly help us assess mainly the electrical triggers for something like this. If the patient is in rapid atrial fibrillation at a rate of 180, it can be a little challenging to detect some of those things. Although if the patient has Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, it would be relatively easy to detect that. Whereas if they have more of a structural problem, that can require a little bit more investigation, like putting an ultrasound on the patient's chest, doing an echocardiogram. And then if all of that looks okay, then we'll have to broaden even further and start looking into some of the other causes. For example, look at their lungs, look at their thyroid function to see if that, you know, thyroid problems are triggering atrial fibrillation. There's many other causes. But I think the upfront no-miss types of things are structural or electrical problems with the heart, pending other information. So that's where I'm starting. All right. No, I like that. Very good thought process. And hopefully, it's something that people at home can understand, like this is how I got there. All right. So let's give you some information about this patient. First off, his vital signs, as requested. His blood pressure is 112 over 63. His heart rate is 88. His oxygen is 98% on room air. I don't have a respiration rate, but if we did, it would be normal. His physical exam, this is a well-nourished adolescent male in no apparent distress, sitting upright in bed. His cardiac exam is unremarkable. Regular rate and rhythm. There's no evidence of edema anywhere. His pulmonary exam is also unremarkable. He's moving all extremities well. His neurological exam, stone cold normal. Basically, a normal physical exam. As far as EKG, I sent you the EKG via text. Do you feel comfortable reading that from that strip? Okay. Yeah. If you're watching this on YouTube, which we have been publishing our episodes on YouTube, I'll put the EKG up on the screen. And perhaps you can see what Dr. Austin Baraki is talking about. Otherwise, it'll just be like a Rorschach kind of thing. What are we looking at? Sure. Okay. Okay. So starting out with the vital signs, these are all reassuringly pretty normal. Not much of concern here. And fortunately, we have a heart rate that is kind of controlled at the moment, meaning he's not in a rapid or an unstable heart rate or rhythm. The exam, it sounds like, was quite normal overall, which is reassuring for some things. For example, we didn't hear a loud, audible heart murmur that we might hear with certain forms of structural heart disease, valvular problems, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, although the lack of a murmur at rest does not rule out the possibility that he might have something like that. So if we had heard it, it would have been helpful. That we didn't hear it is actually a little bit less helpful here. So it remains kind of possible. So you've sent me this electrocardiogram. And so what I'm seeing here, just first glance right away, is that this patient has pretty significant ST segment changes. I'm seeing some ST segment depressions in the inferior leads, in lead two, in lead three, as well as in lead AVF, as well as in several of the chest leads. And then these ST depressions lead into a pretty tall, upright T wave afterwards across the precordium. So in V3, V4, V5, seeing that as well. The differential diagnosis for ST segment changes and things like this is pretty broad and probably a little bit beyond the scope of what we ought to discuss with our general audience here. But this is a very abnormal electrocardiogram for an 18-year-old kid. If I was thinking about an 18-year-old who's coming in with chest pain and a known recent history of AFib, and I'm looking for some of the things that I had mentioned before, for example, evidence of Wolf-Parkinson-White syndrome, evidence of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, evidence of Brigada syndrome, several of those things would be what I'd be really scrutinizing this EKG very closely for. And I'm not seeing super prototypical findings to suggest WPW in any of these leads. It is important to look at all 12 leads when you're looking for that kind of thing. As far as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy goes, there can be several different types of patterns that you see in that. And again, not the textbook findings of it. And that would not be something, a diagnosis that I would make solely based on electrocardiogram anyway. This patient is going to end up needing to get some basic labs as well as an echocardiogram for sure. And then this EKG also is not super suggestive of the kind of, again, textbook findings of Brigada syndrome. So some of those initial things that immediately came to mind are not super apparent here. There can be other congenital things that can trigger certain arrhythmias in young patients, things like long and short QT syndrome and things like that, which are also not really suggested on this electrocardiogram. So definitively abnormal. I think the first thing when you see, you know, a pattern like this of significant ST depressions in many different areas would be some form of ischemia or myocardial injury, inflammation, things like that. So that's kind of where I'm headed next. I'd also like some basic labs. And ultimately, this patient is going to need an ultrasound probe put on their heart. Yeah. Well, I could give you some of that information. So his CKMB, which is a specialized type of creatine kinase that is no longer used a ton for cardiac workup, but it was high. 754 international units per liter, normals 5 to 25, if it were being used still. His troponin, I was 0.69 micrograms per liter, whereas the upper limit of normal is 0.04. So that's elevated, another enzyme coming from the heart, and you're like, I don't feel great about that. And the only other labs I have to provide to you is a TSH and a potassium, both of which were normal, obviously looking for hyperthyroidism and some sort of issue with potassium, which could lead to some characteristic findings. Let's go right to the transthoracic echocardiogram, which is an ultrasound of the heart, as you mentioned, because you wanted it. You got it. It's got a 55% ejection fraction, no evidence of mitral or aortic valve disease, normal left ventricle contractility without wall motion abnormality. Also has normal coronary ostea. That's basically where the coronary arteries originate, as is right and left main coronary arteries, which are right above the aortic valve. Before we go further with more imaging, do you want to summarize this patient, kind of give us your differential right now? Sure. Sure. Yeah. 18-year-old kid, not a ton of medical history other than a recent bout of atrial fibrillation that seemingly self-terminated, coming in with acute chest pain in the setting of exertion, and basically found to have an electrocardiogram and lab findings suggestive of significant myocardial injury, potentially ischemia. You know, when looking at that electrocardiogram, one of the other kind of concerning findings, I mentioned a lot of the ST depressions that were all over the place, but also in lead AVR, he has significant ST elevation, which is something that can be suggestive of kind of more of a global kind of ischemic type picture. Sure, there are, again, other things that can lead to that type of ST elevation in AVR, but that's one of the things that would also get your attention here. And sure enough, on the labs, the elevated cardiac, you know, what people call cardiac enzymes, these proteins that we detect in the blood, including troponin, not something that we should be seeing in an 18-year-old, for sure. The echocardiogram is reassuring in some ways, means he doesn't have valve disease, he doesn't have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, he doesn't have, you know, any other form of apparent cardiomyopathy that we can tell, like an arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy type dysplastic heart or anything like that. A little odd to comment on coronary ostea, that's not usually something that you can actually see on a transthoracic echo, so I'm a little puzzled by that. But bottom line, this kid's heart is being injured by some mechanism. And, you know, if this presentation were in a much older adult, the classic type of phenomenon would be an atherosclerotic, you know, cardiac injury picture, like myocardial infarction from a plaque rupture. That doesn't seem to be very likely in this 18-year-old, and so we have to entertain alternative possibilities for why this patient is showing signs on electrocardiogram, on their blood testing of cardiac ischemia and myocardial injury. And so some of the things that you would entertain is, well, if this patient doesn't have a ton of plaque that can be rupturing leading to, you know, impairment and oxygenated blood flow to the heart muscle, what other ways can something like this happen? Are there congenital anomalies with the coronary arteries themselves? There's all sorts of different ways that they can be malformed or hypoplastic absent, you know, or their function impaired. You can have emboli, they can dissect, they can spasm, or if it's not coronary-mediated myocardial issues, the myocardium itself could be getting inflamed, injured, myocarditis, things like that, which we don't have a ton of other features to suggest that at this point in time. So basically, you know, in most patients presenting with this type of a phenomenon, they would end up getting taken to the cardiac catheterization lab to take a closer look at their coronaries. If, for whatever reason, that was deemed not to be the route forward, something like a coronary CT angiogram, you really want to make sure the coronaries are okay in this situation. And if it's not related to the coronaries, then probably something like a cardiac MRI would be the next steps to get a better characterization of both the coronaries and then of the cardiac muscle itself. All right. Well, hey, ask and ye shall receive. So first off, did get a coronary artery CT scan. All right. So he has normal coronary artery origins. So again, commenting on the origin of the coronary arteries. However, it does look like part of his left anterior descending coronary artery was actually inside the heart muscle, about 2.3 millimeters deep for about 24 millimeters in length. And then he also had a coronary angiography. That's an X-ray of the coronary arteries. And it showed that, yeah, there's some issue with the left anterior descending artery with about a greater than 50 percent narrowing at its midpoint during systole. So when the heart is actually contracting. So I also did a cardiac MRI at normal left and right ventricular function, no hypertrophy of the heart muscle. That's the myocardium, no edema of the myocardium and no scarring. So at this point, I'm going to ask you to summarize this patient for the last time and give me a diagnosis. If you're playing along at home, this is the time you got to pause. You got to give me your final answer. It is OK to phone a friend. You can use that, but it can't be a cardiologist. That's the only thing you can't call a cardiologist and tell him this. Yeah, this was actually a one of the specific examples of the kind of abnormalities relating to the coronaries that I had alluded to earlier, but thought maybe that's getting a little bit too into the weeds. So basically this 18 year old coming in with recurrent exertional chest pain, recent atrial fibrillation and found to have signs of cardiac ischemia on EKG on labs and normal trans thoracic echocardiogram and normal coronary artery origins, but does appear to have a segment of his one of his main coronary arteries, the left anterior descending coronary artery that is essentially buried within the heart muscle itself. So usually these are called the epicardial coronary arteries, the epicardial meaning sitting on the outer surface of the heart muscle. It is not normal for these arteries to actually go into the heart muscle itself. And so whereas, again, in the 60, 70 year old with atherosclerosis, they can have plaque rupture and a clot in their coronary artery that effectively prevents blood flow to the heart muscle to deliver oxygen. In this situation, the artery itself is perfectly healthy. However, it is sitting inside the heart muscle and the heart muscle is squeezing and contracting. And any time that that heart muscle squeezes and contracts, it is squeezing down onto this artery that is inside of it, essentially preventing blood flow to the rest of the heart muscle. And so rather than with atherosclerosis, where the impairment in blood flow is due to a effectively a blockage, quote unquote, inside the vessel, this situation is relating to an impairment in blood flow because the vessel is being compressed from the outside, preventing adequate blood flow. So this patient has something that is known as a myocardial bridge. And essentially what it is describing is the muscle effectively like a bridge over the artery and the artery is diving underneath. And any time that that muscle that is over top squeezes down, it effectively constricts onto the coronary artery and prevents blood flow. When there's prevention of blood flow, you can get ischemic chest pain or angina, which is what this patient was having. And then irritated heart muscle, you know, atrial fibrillation is not the most common manifestation of myocardial ischemia, but he had an irritable, angry heart that kind of led to that phenomenon. So the final diagnosis in this case is that this patient has a myocardial bridge. Fortunate that he was caught at this stage, diagnosed relatively early. This can be managed surgically by essentially snipping that muscle myotomy. There's also other, you know, more advanced types of interventions that can be offered that are well outside my scope. But that is what this patient has. Yes. So this patient was diagnosed with myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries, also known as MINOCHA, due to myocardial bridging with exercise-induced atrial fibrillation. He was started on a beta blocker, atenolol, at 100 milligrams per day. And he actually underwent a stress test while on atenolol and was able to get up to 93% of his max predicted heart rate with no symptoms. Over the next six years, with regular follow-up with his cardiologist, only had two recurrences with temporary suspension of his medication due to what his family physician ordered at the time. He was able to return to training and competition, but at a lower level, probably because he was on a beta blocker instead of pursuing other interventions, which we don't know the entire, you know, sort of situation here. But, yeah, I thought that was interesting. So I wanted to talk about three things here. One, myocardial bridging. You did describe that. I just wanted to go a little further. I wanted to also talk about MINOCHA because that's fun for med students, medical trainees, and those adjacent. And then, finally, the risk of atrial fibrillation in athletes. This is something that people will say, look, you can't exercise too much because you'll get AFib. And then, you know, so I think it bears some discussion. But overall, what did you think about this case? Do you think it was interesting or? Yeah, interesting. You know, not something that shows up all that commonly as far as a presenting kind of diagnosis, even though the syndrome is quite common. And I think that the electrocardiogram is one that people who look at EKGs should be familiar with. This is a pretty clear, you know, ischemic pattern. And I think that, you know, I was scrutinizing it very closely for things that I thought up front were a little bit more likely in an 18-year-old. But myocardial ischemia can happen to anyone. And so for learners who are looking at this, the particular pattern that you see, especially in like the, you know, precordial leads, V2, V3, V4, those are known as de Winter T waves that are pretty suggestive of basically myocardial infarction. Those are a STEMI equivalent, so to speak. So something to definitely recognize that pattern. And that would be an emergency if you see it. Yeah. All right. So let's start with myocardial bridging. And you did describe it perfectly. The heart has three major layers, a smooth inner layer that's called the endocardium, a middle muscular layer that's thicker that's called the myocardium, myo being for muscle, and a relatively thin outer protective layer called the epicardium. And as you mentioned, the major coronary arteries typically lie on the outer surface, the epicardium. But when a portion of one of these arteries is covered by muscle instead, it is said to be intramyocardial, where a muscle runs over the portion of coronary artery like a bridge. And we call that myocardial bridging. The most common location is the left anterior descending artery, which is what our patient had. The prevalence is unclear because different imaging techniques provide different results, right? But on average, using autopsy and CT-related data, about 20% to 30% of people may have this, although most will be of little clinical significance and not be symptomatic. But this particular patient had systolic compression when he had AFib from physical activity, which caused a lack of blood flow, which we call ischemia. And so patients who are symptomatic, and this particular example with MINOCHA, well, it's more common that they have myocardial bridging. That's one of the sort of risk factors. So what is MINOCHA? Well, I first want to start with what is a myocardial infarction? You know, people will just call that a heart attack, but just the actual maybe the pathophysiology, broadly speaking. Yeah, myocardial infarction. So infarction refers to essentially necrosis or cell death of the heart muscle. And so when the muscle cells infarct, they are dying due to a lack of sufficient oxygenated blood flow. And so as I alluded to earlier, there's a lot of different mechanisms by which somebody can have a lack of sufficient oxygenated blood flow. You can have, for example, these types of injuries to these cells if you just have such severe anemia that you can't even get enough oxygen to the heart muscle during times of high stress, so like physiologic stress. So, for example, we'll see, you know, these types of issues happen when people are in septic shock in an ICU and they have severe anemia and their heart rate's going really high. And we can see, you know, hey, the heart is basically outstripping its out kicking its coverage, as you tend to say, where it has a certain demand and the body can't meet it. And other ways that the body can be unable to deliver enough blood flow is if there is a physical obstruction to flow, for example, from atherosclerosis, from plaque, obstructive coronary artery disease, or if there are other problems that are impairing blood flow. Like I mentioned, coronaries can spasm, they can dissect, there can be other clots that travel to the coronaries and get in there and block them. So there's all sorts of other mechanisms. Ultimately, it's just, is enough oxygenated blood getting there or is there insufficient oxygen in the blood? Is there a blockage to flow? Where's that blockage coming from? In this case, it was because muscle was squeezing down and essentially pinching the artery shut every time the heart muscle squeezed. You can also have just this general syndrome of a heart attack without any obstructive coronary artery disease.  autemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplemplempl or obstruction of the coronary arteries. There's no severe hemorrhage or bleeding, and there's no severe respiratory failure. All of those other things would be a different diagnosis. So this affects about 8% of individuals who have experienced a myocardial infarction. It is more common in women than men. So, for example, of all women under the age of 50 who are having a myocardial infarction, half of them have Minoka here. Also tends to be more common in younger individuals, also black and Hispanic individuals. And these folks are less likely to present with traditional risk factors. In this case, we had an 18-year-old, you know, otherwise healthy dude who, you know, subsequently had a myocardial infarction. Causes, yeah, you can get a spasm of the coronary arteries, myocardial bridging. So having that layer of muscle over the top can cause spasming, for example. You can have a dissection of the arteries. You could have Takasubo, which we discussed in a previous mystery case. You could have viral myocarditis. But effectively, the point remains the same. There's not an obstruction, a significant obstruction in the arteries, but the person still not being able to meet the demands for fresh oxygenated blood to the heart, and you get a myocardial infarction. These folks tend to have a better prognosis than, you know, traditional coronary artery disease, with about half the mortality rate in the hospital and half the mortality rate at one year. So while you'd prefer not to obviously have a myocardial infarction, if you had to pick one, you know, maybe this is the flavor. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So let's pivot and talk about atrial fibrillation risk in athletes. Do you want to briefly just review, like, what AFib is? Because it's, like, most common. And we've talked about a bunch, but let's rehash. Yeah. It's one of many different types of irregular heart rhythms, and it happens when the atria, or what are commonly known as the top chambers of the heart, essentially start fibrillating. And that's a fancy word to say. They're just essentially quivering. They're not contracting in a kind of metronomic, regular, effective fashion. So they are electrically very irritable. They're just quivering, not really contributing much to blood flow from the top chambers into the bottom chambers. And so when they are just kind of sitting there quivering like that, not only can people have symptoms, especially if the ventricular rate, the bottom chambers start contracting at a very fast rate, as this patient did previously, you can start to feel your heart racing. There can be a lot of other associated symptoms with this. General fatigue, exercise intolerance, things like that can happen. But also as blood kind of sits in those top chambers and doesn't really flow as effectively as it otherwise should, anytime blood sits still, it's going to want to clot. And it can clot. And then if you have a clot sitting in your heart, that can get shot out of your heart to lots of different potential places in your body. If it gets shot up to your brain, it can give you a stroke. If it gets shot down to your leg, you can get acute leg, you know, limb ischemia. It can get shot into your spleen or your kidneys, lots of other different potential places. So these patients are often either, you know, shocked out of atrial fibrillation into a regular heart rhythm, put on medicines to get them out of atrial fibrillation into a regular heart rhythm. Sometimes we let people live in atrial fibrillation if it's been, you know, longstanding for a really long period of time and we're not going to be able to effectively get them out of it. And then most of these patients are going to get put on some form of blood thinner to reduce that risk of clotting because that can lead to potentially catastrophic consequences. Yeah. Yeah. So the reason why this is important is because there's been some thought that atrial fibrillation risk is higher in well-trained individuals, specifically endurance athletes. But the relationship here between like cardiorespiratory fitness level, participation in exercise and, you know, atrial fibrillation risk is nuanced. So generally speaking, in like a non-athletic population, increased cardiorespiratory fitness and increased participation in exercise is associated with a reduced risk of atrial fibrillation. So if someone was listening to this podcast and they were like, well, if I exercise, I'm going to increase my risk of AFib. Well, that is definitively not the case. Effectively, you take somebody, they go from insufficiently physically active to meeting the guidelines, exceeding the guidelines, doubling the guidelines or whatever. You would predict a risk reduction rather than an increased risk. Yeah. And that's been shown. I mean, I think that atrial fibrillation risk, along with several other cardiovascular risks, kind of correlate with common metabolic conditions of that we see a lot these days, things like insulin resistance, diabetes, high blood pressure, those sorts of things all tend to cluster. And they probably lead to some form of kind of almost microscopic structural changes to the heart, some fibrosis in the atria, things like that, that are likely happening and can increase the risk of developing heart failure, particularly what we call heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, as well as atrial fibrillation. And so this is a condition that the more aggressively we treat and prevent the development and progression of things like insulin resistance, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, metabolic syndrome in general, and get people more active, we can significantly reduce the risk of developing AFib at all. Or if people have AFib, they tend to have less AFib burden, meaning they're likely to spend less time in atrial fibrillation, as well as improve their quality of life. And so I recently gave a lecture to our residency program on basically the benefits of exercise across all sorts of common medical conditions. And one of them included atrial fibrillation. There was a randomized trial published in Jack Clinical EP just two years ago, April 2023, that they call the ACTIVE AF trial. AF is the acronym for atrial fibrillation. But yeah, it makes it very memorable. The ACTIVE AF trial basically took patients and randomized, like about 120 patients and randomized them to an exercise intervention or quote unquote usual care and showed, you know, quite significant benefits to the group that was exercising in terms of symptom burden, in terms of their VO2 max and things like that across the study that lasted about a year, I believe. So definitely something that's strongly recommended. It's interesting that, you know, there's this concern definitely at low levels of cardiorespiratory fitness and these medical conditions that cluster with it of having an increased risk of atrial fibrillation. And then the other risk that you're alluding to is like maybe at like super ultra endurance end of the spectrum, there may also be a bit of an increased risk in that end. Although, you know, not necessarily of the risk is not necessarily of the same character, I would say. And there's probably a relatively broad sweet spot in between for atrial fibrillation where more exercise is generally better. Yeah. Well, let's go to that upper pole of like a very highly trained endurance athletes and just see, you know, most of this data here is observational in nature just because it's hard to run a randomized controlled trial for like the number of years it takes to like attain high levels of fitness and then kind of see like, oh, well, did these people develop more atrial fibrillation? And this mostly occurs in older, highly trained, highly trained endurance athletes. And so, yeah, there is some decent evidence showing that there's an increased risk of AFib in highly trained athletes, particularly as they get older. Multiple studies, certainly meta-analyses have shown this over and over and over again. The real question is, well, how, what is the like sort of magnitude of the increased risk? And what is the sort of effect of this increase in risk? Meaning that do these individuals who are highly active, highly fit? Well, if they have AFib, does that actually lead to like increased risk of heart attacks, increased risk of stroke, for example? And so the overall sort of magnitude of effect, it shows that, yeah, there's like a five time increased risk of developing AFib if you do attain a high level of cardiorespiratory fitness. And this sort of like threshold is about 2,000 hours of training that has to be accrued before the risk really starts to rise. And yeah, pretty significant risk here. Again, mostly in older individuals and almost exclusively in highly trained endurance athletes, not resistance training. So again, stroke represents a serious complication of AFib. But despite maybe having AFib in this population, athletes seldomly have other risk factors like high blood pressure, diabetes, heart failure, dyslipidemia, which with in conjunction with AFib would actually increase the risk of stroke. And so we look at some data here on actual stroke risk in athletes that do have AFib. And so this first study I'll talk about, it's 505 male athletes with a median age of 68 who regularly participated in long distance ski races over a median period of 14 years. It compared them with about 1,800 men of the same age from the general population who were not highly trained athletes. The results showed that the athletes had a higher prevalence of AFib, but a lower risk of stroke compared to the non-athletes. And compared to athletes without AFib, athletes with AFib had a twofold increased risk in stroke, while non-athletes with AFib experienced a nearly fourfold increase in stroke risk compared to non-athletes without AFib. So if you get to pick, you'd prefer obviously not to have AFib and be highly trained. But yes, sometimes this happens. Larger study, 208,000 Swedish cross-country skiers, both male and female, versus 500,000 plus non-skiers. A lot of ski data here. And I don't know if they just happen to have like the highest VO2 max on average or carter sport fitness. I can imagine cross-country skiing seems exceptionally difficult for very long distances. Yeah. So both male and female skiers had lower stroke incidence than non-skiers, about 36% lower. skiers with AFib had a higher stroke incidence than those without AFib. But after atrial fibrillation diagnosis, they had a lower stroke incidence and mortality compared to non-skiers with AFib. So just to summarize, if you are an athlete with AFib, your risk of stroke is likely lower than a non-athlete, non-highly trained individual with AFib. If you are an athlete and you do have AFib, your risk of stroke is probably higher than if you were an athlete without AFib. But as far as whether or not you can control that, that's more complicated. The data on resistance training show effectively no increased risk of AFib unless somebody had a very low cardiovascular fitness level prior to engaging in exercise. And then by engaging in resistance training exercise, increased their cardiovascular fitness. Yeah, the risk goes up, but it's still pretty small. Yeah, I think overall, the other thing that we haven't really investigated is that do highly trained athletes, if they were to lower their exercise volume after receiving a diagnosis of AFib, does this just go away? Because that's actually not been studied. And so that's a question that maybe needs to be investigated. I suspect, and you will get your thoughts on this, there's some sort of maybe like genetic predisposition, other sort of like lifelong exposure risk that maybe we're not picking up that people who they get it and just happen also be highly trained athletes. And it's I just don't know that it's something we can quote unquote, correct, other than identifying, oh, you do have it. So let's manage you optimally. But I don't know that I would, you know, tell people to reduce the risk or tell people to reduce their exercise volume to reduce the risk of AFib. Yeah. Yeah. I am with you on this. It's a it's a tough nut to crack here. And part of the other challenge is that atrial fibrillation, that even just the diagnosis and management of it can be tricky because, as I mentioned, some people have symptoms and that's when they would present to care and get diagnosed. And other people don't have symptoms at all. And so there's this discrepancy. And this is something that the electrophysiology world is kind of grappling with currently, especially in the era of like modern wearables, where your Apple Watch might tell you that you had a stretch or a bout of AFib, even if you didn't have any symptoms, because the original data sets where we figured out, you know, AFib and stroke risk and then how we risk stratify people to decide should they be on a blood thinner or not to prevent their risk of stroke. None of that was done in these types of patients, people who are just like incidentally just my Apple Watch told me I had AFib. What do I do? We don't have good evidence that managing those people the same way is actually, you know, the right move where it's a lot of it is just kind of hand wavy guesswork at the moment. And so, you know, I also wonder among these endurance athletes, for example, how many of them are being diagnosed with what we'll call like clinical AFib, meaning they presented to care maybe because of symptoms or they had, you know, an episode or an event that they felt or something like that versus how often is this just happening to people in bits and spurts with no symptoms whatsoever. And we never detect it because that would add an additional wrinkle to this to this data. So pretty complex world. And I hope that, you know, in the near future, we get a little bit more evidence in the realm of, you know, how what is the best way to manage people with like asymptomatic almost incidentally found atrial fibrillation? Because that's something that I think especially with wearables in people who are, you know, biohacking and paying a ton of a ton of attention to these types of things, especially if they're super active, like we're going to get asked this kind of stuff more and more and more. And we don't yet have a great answer for these folks on what we should do. Yeah. So where I currently stand is that for the general population, the majority of whom are insufficiently active, meeting or exceeding the current physical activity guidelines and attaining a higher level of cardiovascular fitness likely reduces the risk of not only AFib, but also stroke or other sort of major adverse cardiac event. However, the combination of like autonomic structural and hemodynamic effects of high volume, high intensity aerobic exercise repeated over long periods of time for sport likely imparts some risk of arrhythmia, particularly in like vulnerable individuals. Those are predisposed to it with high volumes of exercise. And what I'm talking about here is likely four to five times the current sort of guideline. So a lot. Pretty much nobody listening right now is in this danger zone. Yeah. You want to even call it that. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Maybe maybe there's another podcast called like endurance medicine and then you can like maybe that listening audience. But yeah. So like four to five times the current guidelines. Yeah. That may increase the risk of AFib in susceptible individuals, but there's not really an associated increased risk in mortality or stroke compared to being insufficiently active. There are gaps in our knowledge as far as like, well, if somebody did develop AFib from high levels of exercise, this four to five times the current guidelines. Well, what about reducing it? Would that like, would they no longer have AFib? And would the reduction in cardiorespiratory fitness be like a positive as far as the overall like risk benefit? We just don't know. Yeah. And again, there's no real data showing an increased risk of AFib from resistance training. We would prefer no AFib if we got to choose. But in my opinion, it kind of is what it is for people who have incidentally found this due to high levels of exercise. And in that population, I would just plan on managing any other risk factors as much as possible. But I don't know that I would recommend reducing exercise volume. How does that strike you? Yeah, I agree. I think that this, you know, hardly applies to the vast majority of people. And if somebody is performing ultra endurance exercise to that level, five plus times the physical activity guidelines and running a risk of maybe a slight increased risk in atrial fibrillation, I don't think that most of those people are doing 5x the guidelines under the guise that it is necessary for their health. And so there's a lot of things that athletes, which I would classify these people most likely as athletes, most likely competitive athletes, that athletes do that they are often very accepting of may not be, you know, the healthiest thing for them. We see this across all sorts of sports, whether it comes to physical risks of the sport itself, whether it comes to, you know, substance use, performance enhancing drug use, all sorts of other things that that people will do in these competitive avenues that they're under no illusion is like healthy for them. And this kind of fits in that category. Most people are not doing 6x the guidelines because they think it's necessary for them to be healthier. And so, you know, what you would do is maybe bring this to their awareness, potentially, if it doesn't come to their awareness already by experiencing symptomatic AFib. And they would probably be like, yeah, this is what I want to do, though. This is important to me. And so I'll manage the risks accordingly. I don't think we should look at them as in the same way as somebody who has obesity, uncontrolled diabetes, heart failure, and is an AFib. You know, they're certainly not of the same risk profile. There's probably some nonzero risk associated with that upper end. But yeah, I don't think they're doing it under the illusion of health. So that's not really a thing that would alter my recommendations for, you know, the overwhelming majority of people listening. Yeah, yeah. It's kind of like telling an individual with obesity, like, hey, don't make sure you don't eat too little. Yeah, like conservation exists. It's possible. Yeah, exactly. It's like don't tell that person with who also happens to have AFib, like, don't exercise too much because it might worsen your AFib. I'm like, I have no concerns about that. In fact, I would predict that as that person increases exercise and particularly as that impacts, you know, overall cardiovascular fitness and maybe obesity itself, that their risk of AFib and maybe their incidental AFib would go away. And then if they happen to get to like 20 hours a week of training, maybe that risk goes back up. But again, that is generally a conscious decision to like, hey, man, I'm doing this for sport. I mean, that's a lot, a lot of endurance training that people don't just like do by happenstance. Yeah, totally. There's I think that probably pretty much covers it. I mean, if you say you said five times the current physical activity guidelines, right? So that's what at the top end of 300 times five. That's 1500 minutes a week. 25 hours. 25 hours of conditioning. And I don't think this is like 25 hours of zone one either. This is like legit, you know, conditioning. And so I think back to like even my competitive swimming days. And I was like, maybe approaching that. I don't even think I was actually up to that much in total. And that was like a lot of hard conditioning during that period of time. And I would never go back to training that amount these days or in the foreseeable future. So I think it's just a vanishingly small amount of the population that would even be willing to do that. And yeah, they're doing it for other reasons for sure. Yeah. All right. Well, that is a wrap here on the Mystery Case and the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We covered myocardial bridging. We covered Minoka. We covered AFib. You know, pretty decent. High level stuff for our audience. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. So links to everything we discussed in this podcast in the show notes in addition to the case. So check that out. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. For everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you. Bye. Thank you.