 aut autoprilsch, autopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril, cschopril cschopril, cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril cschopril c entertainment purposes only. Please see your physician if you have any questions about this. Now, on the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's up, dude? Hey, excited. It's been a little while since we've done one of these, so hopefully I'm not too rusty. And I guess that little teaser you gave already has my mind kind of racing a little bit, trying to see what scraps of a differential diagnosis I can just based on what you provided. But yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, it should be fun. A few announcements before we get into it. Two things. One, our chocolate whey RX is shipped to our facility, so that stuff is shipping out ASAP if you are in the market for a new whey protein supplement. Ours is pretty good, and that's the only pitch I'm going to give you. And I feel really good that it doesn't have anything that you don't want to be in there in the thing, and we're very competitive in the space as far as pricing goes for the amount of protein that you get. So yeah, you can check that out. Also, we just released our second generation Power Building 2 template. It replaces the first generation for Power Building 2 and Power Building 3. Now, if you're like, what is Power Building? I don't get it. Well, we're just combining powerlifting and bodybuilding together to try to get the best of both worlds for people who enjoy that type of training. I tend to like that type of training, so this is near and dear to my heart. Instead of the original programs coming with one singular program, this includes three programs. They're all 16 weeks long. There's a three-day version. There's a four-day version. Both of those are designed to take people to like a one-rep max test or a powerlifting meet if they wanted to do so. But we also included a non-competition type template for people who like training the big three, so squat, bench press, and deadlift, but aren't really going to max out their lifts or go to a powerlifting meet. So it's a fun style of training if that's what you're into. And so now we wanted to support more people through that. Also, we expanded the text so you kind of know why you're doing what you're doing. So you can check that out on our website. We just released that. It's also on the app, and you get access to both if you purchase through the website. I'll say my prediction. Now, this is what we have to do before any one of these cases. I have to predict whether or not you're going to get it. And historically, I've erred on the side of entertainment and said, well, you're just not going to get it. So people listen. I really don't think you're going to get this one. And I don't say that. I am. Look, you impress me regularly. I think you're very intelligent. Well, you communicate well. A lot of other superlatives. We could keep going, but this is a family show. I don't want to get too missed yet. I don't think you have enough information. Well, that's on you. To be clear, that's not on me. It's on the people writing the case report. All right. Well, sounds like I'll learn something. All right. You're ready, though? Sure. Let's do it. All right. Let's do it. Okay. Dr. Austin Baraki, you just got word that a 38-year-old man is en route to your hospital due to concern for a heart attack. While you wait for the patient to arrive, you're getting the report from the paramedics who are bringing him in. About an hour ago, paramedics were called to the patient's office by his coworkers out of concern for the patient's health. Upon arrival, the paramedics noted that the patient reported severe chest pain and shortness of breath, and his skin also appeared to be bluish. An EKG in the field was suspicious for a STEMI, a particular type of heart attack. And so the paramedics wanted to bring the patient to your hospital, which is a cardiac center. Upon arrival to your hospital, the patient is alert and oriented, but appears uncomfortable. He continues to endure severe chest pain located behind his sternum. He also says that he's short of breath and his hands feel sweaty. He said it all started during his workout that morning, but he wasn't sure what was happening and went to work anyway. Before cardiology can come and whisk the patient away to the cardiac cath lab. He says that he's also been recently sick. He says he's had a runny nose. He's been sneezing, has a sore throat and a cough, but he denies having any fever that he was able to measure at home. On his way out of the emergency department and into the, with the cardiology team, the patient denies that he has any active medical problems or any history of this. He doesn't use any drugs, but he does smoke cigarettes and he drinks about 10 drinks per week. So Dr. Baraki, that is the information that you have from when he showed up to your hospital before you start going down your differential diagnosis, a rabbit hole. If you want to play along at home, this is where you would pause the podcast, try to come up with your own differential. And if you've never done it before, I encourage you to do so just pause this thing, come up with an idea of like, Hey, what could this be ideally more than one thing? Although as I keep reminding listeners, the length of your differential diagnosis only needs to include the correct diagnosis. So anyway, yeah, it can be helpful to go through the systems of the body and say, Hey, which one of these things could relate and potentially cause this patient's presentation. So this is a time to pause. If you're not pausing, Dr. Baraki, take it away. What do you think about this patient? Yeah, this is a concerning story, a concerning presentation. And for the sake of the edutainment value of this, mainly the educational aspect, since you prompted the audience to try to do this, I'll return to kind of how I tend to build a differential diagnosis in these situations. And I think the key aspect of this as a skill is having an organizational structure to your thinking, because it helps you work through problems in a systematic way. Because I see chest pain near daily. And so that means I see hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cases of chest pain over the course of many years, if not, you know, into the thousands. And even though the patient is coming in with chest pain, the kind of source or cause for that chest pain can be any number of things. The mark of, I think, less skilled differential diagnostic reasoning, or what maybe some lay folks in the audience who are trying to play along might tend to do, is immediately jump to very specific diagnoses as things that could be going on, right? This is what I see oftentimes, even with medical students and even with residents and trainees, when prompted for a differential diagnosis, they jump to, well, what is the first specific diagnosis that comes to mind? And what I often end up doing is try to pull them back from jumping to very specific diagnosis and think in terms of more broad buckets, as I tend to call them. And what the nature of these buckets are kind of varies based on the complaint. And that's where you need some experience to be able to build these kind of organizational frameworks. So for a situation where somebody has pain someplace, it ends up being a very useful way to organize things into these buckets by using the anatomy of that area. And so as we've done before, when we've talked about chest pain, for example, you know, we think about, well, what are the things in the chest that can potentially hurt that, you know, have a nociceptive event in this case? So we have the skeleton, the ribs, the chest wall, even the skin. And then as we go deeper, there's the lungs and the pleural surfaces. There's the heart and all the structures of the heart that do can potentially contribute to pain, like the muscle of the heart, most concerningly, as well as the pericardium and some other structures. And then we have the esophagus even deeper in there as well, as well as some other things that I'll set aside for now. And so then we start to see, well, if I overlap things like chest pain and shortness of breath, then I start to see, well, now I'm really much more localized to like the cardiac and the pulmonary systems a bit more than I would be, for example, than to the esophagus, which can still contribute to that, but less likely, less common, and certainly less common than some issue going on in the skin, for example. But so then we start to kind of prioritize these things. So in this patient, we have a syndrome of acute chest pain and shortness of breath, which both using this kind of anatomic structured way to organize things, as well as just what's the most immediately life-threatening, we're going to hone in on the heart and the lungs. And you notice that I still have not said myocardial infarction or heart attack or pulmonary embolism or pneumothorax. These are all specific examples of diagnoses, but these are all kind of emergency things that are kind of no-miss diagnoses in these systems. And so the idea is if I know that I need to be investigating the heart and the lungs, well, what tools do I have available to me to do so? There's going to be the EKG, which was already done. There's going to be some form of chest imaging, like a chest x-ray, sometimes certain types of CT scans of the chest. And given the suspicion that arose from that EKG, this patient, as you mentioned, is appropriately getting whisked off to the cardiac catheterization lab because a myocardial infarction or a heart attack or some form of what we'll call more generally in acute coronary syndrome is definitely the most concerning upfront possibility. There are a number of potential causes of acute coronary syndrome. You can have atherosclerosis, a topic we've talked about a ton on the podcast where one of your plaque, coronary plaque ruptures and leads to a kind of a thrombus or a clot forming in your coronary arteries and limits blood flow to the heart muscle. But that can happen through a lot of other ways too. You can have spasm of your coronary arteries. You can have a dissection of your coronary arteries. You can have lots of other mimics of a myocardial infarction like this. And so taking that off the table upfront would be the first and most important thing to do. Now, you mentioned in the teaser for this that I'm unlikely to get this. And so I think that based on that alone, my leading source of concern or leading suspicion, you know, even though that is the correct thing to rule out, I'm going to end up probably having to think quite a bit more broadly beyond this first and most urgent concern as we get a little bit more information. But so far, what you've described justifies the upfront kind of evaluation and management, depending on his vital signs getting whisked off and at least getting that heart catheterization done. But if it's a negative, for example, if his coronary arteries all look actually clear and there's no evidence of a clot or a plaque rupture, of course, you can still have, he could have still experienced some form of a coronary artery spasm or something like that. There's still some things that can mimic it that could end up looking normal when they do take him to that lab. But I might also have to expand my thought process. And one of the curious things you mentioned is this skin appearance of being a little bit blue. The idea that he has what might be cyanosis is not something that is commonly seen when somebody just has a straight up regular run of the mill, quote unquote, heart attack, that there may be some cyanosis or change in skin color, most concerningly would suggest maybe it's this oxygen level, super, super low, which would be detected when they check his vital signs. And that would actually take me in a little bit of a different direction, you know, to start thinking about some other potential causes and contributors, which I will come back to should they become relevant upon getting a little bit more information here. So I have little objection to what they did up front, but I'll be curious to see what happens next to take us in a different direction. Yeah, very good framework. Okay, what is the problem? What is the general area? What are all the systems in the area that can possibly contribute? And you'll note that as you go further down like these different systems, they can actually lead you further away from the actual area, a person's experiencing pain, for example, or where you think the, you know, anatomy, the relevant anatomy is. Yes, we'll see what happens here. Well, look, the guy went to the cardiac catheterization lab, and in the lab, the EKG done there showed that he had sinus tachycardia, so a rapid heart rate, but normal rhythm. But the cardiology team interpreted the EKG not as a STEMI, a particular type of acute coronary syndrome, but as normal male pattern ST elevation. And so this is just like widespread ST elevation in many of the electronic leads that you use to get the EKG. It's thought to be due to early repolarization. It's benign, and it's commonly seen in young, healthy male athletes, although again, there's some additional workup that needs to be done to confirm that, hey, this is actually not a heart attack. This is a normal finding. We'll get to that. So a portable chest x-ray was also done, and that was normal. So they turfed him back to you. They said, we don't want this guy. We can't do anything. So now you finally get your first set of vital signs. His heart rate was 115 beats per minute. His blood pressure is 135 over 85. His respiratory rate is fast 24 beats per minute, uh, uh, uh, breath per minute. And he's 84%, uh, for his pulse ox on supplemental oxygen. He's got no fever. However, his physical exam, well, the patient appears ill, uncomfortable and anxious. He's struggling, uh, uh, appears he's struggling to breathe. Um, his neurological exam, well, he's alert and oriented. He's moving all of the extremities well, but yeah, he does have some difficulties breathing. Um, cardiac exam is a rapid rate that you can hear, but no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. His peripheral pulses are strong. His lung exam, it's got rapid breathing as mentioned, but they're clear to auscultation. So listening to them bilaterally, his lung sounds are normal. Musculoskeletal exam is normal. Uh, so no swelling, no tenderness, no weakness. His skin does appear clammy, particularly his palms. He is actively sweating. His lips and nails appear kind of bluish gray, uh, according to your resident, but, uh, you haven't actually laid eyes on the patient just yet. Uh, you're coming down and you're waiting for labs and an echocardiogram to come back. So, you know, while you're on your stroll to the emergency room, uh, what's going through your head, this is also another time where you would pause, uh, the podcast and think about, does this information put you in any different direction? Yeah, super interesting. Okay. Uh, I was taking a lot of notes there, uh, while, while you were chatting a little interesting, how delayed, uh, how long it took me to get a set of vital signs. Um, I imagine he actually had vitals before he went to the cath lab, but you finally revealed those, uh, to me here. So yeah, benign early repolarization, uh, is a finding that is pretty common on EKG and patients in this demographic men in their thirties, forties can, can certainly have it. Um, although when somebody comes in with acute onset crushing substernal chest pain, uh, I can totally see why the, the EMS folks and the folks in the ER were reluctant to call that a, that benign finding and instead treated this like it could be, uh, uh, you know, myocardial infarction or some form of acute coronary syndrome. So, um, moving, moving forward, I will say, you know, the rapid heart rate is something that is a little bit actually less common in patients who have that STEMI diagnosis, unless they're going into shock. Um, so that's already something that is seen a little bit less often here, his blood pressure and some of the other things are not getting my attention nearly as much as his respiratory situation. He's breathing fast and his blood oxygen level is low as we suspected based on that suggestion of maybe he's looking a little blue, which is again, unusual. Um, the fact that his chest X-ray is normal is reassuring for some things relating to the lungs, but is not sufficient to evaluate things super thoroughly. And we've ultimately seen, you know, it seems like not really done much additional evaluation of his heart just yet. So he would still get blood testing related to his heart, like troponin levels and all sorts of other things as, as part of this evaluation regardless, but really I'm updating kind of the problem that we're trying to solve now. So instead of a patient who's just coming in with acute chest pain and shortness of breath, I'm likely to, to assume that this is a relatively new onset, you know, uh, what we'll call hypoxemia or low blood oxygen levels and cyanosis with, uh, with, uh, chest pain and shortness of breath kind of as an associated binding. So really the thing I'm trying to solve ASAP is why is this patient's, uh, blood oxygen level 84%? And I assume that that number you gave me as well, he's breathing ambient or room air. Um, and so the first thing that we would do is, uh, and this is both a treatment and can be useful diagnostically as slap some oxygen on this patient and see if it helps, uh, if it does help that sends us down a certain path of, uh, issues that do respond to oxygen. And if it doesn't help that actually sends us down a different path of other types of causes for this sort of thing that do not respond to oxygen. Just a, just a brief correction. And this may surprise you because it surprised me because there was no further mention of this. So maybe I'm just giving this away. The 84% was actually on supplemental oxygen. Uh, yep. All right. Still leaving open the question of what was it before they put them on oxygen and did it improve or how high have they cranked it up? Cause usually you just crank the person up to a hundred percent and then you take them down from there to see how low do, how little do they need? I will tell you that they did not mention the specific amount of supplemental oxygen. However, it could be at a hundred percent. And this is the exact, uh, this, this would be the same. Okay. Pulse ox reading. Got it. So essentially you're telling me that we have a situation where we have a patient who has hypoxemia that is not responding to supplemental oxygen, uh, which is useful for, uh, uh, you know, working through this problem. One example of, uh, types of conditions that can cause this are called shunts. And a shunt basically means that blood that has already passed through the body, uh, from the arterial side and kind of given its oxygen off to the tissues and come back to the heart on the venous side to kind of pick up more oxygen to make another trip out to the body when it doesn't actually pass through the lungs effectively to pick up oxygen. But instead it kind of skips a step from the right side of the heart over to the left side of the heart, or if it shoots through the lungs way too quickly, uh, for a variety of reasons, it doesn't have an opportunity to pick up new oxygen. And so in that situation, I can pour all the oxygen I want into your nose or into your lungs, and it's not actually getting to the blood that it needs to get to. So one of the immediate concerns that I end up worrying about in these types of situations is whether there's some form of shunting going on in the lungs or in the heart. Um, this can be assessed through certain types of imaging, CT scanning, and an echocardiogram of the heart. Uh, and I would also be curious, you know, to, to look at those blood vessels, uh, in the lungs, uh, using, using some of those tools. One of the other things that comes to mind, uh, when I see or hear about a patient who has a blood oxygen level that is essentially locked at around 85% and will not budge no matter what, this is actually a kind of a textbook description of a unusual and an uncommon situation where a patient has been exposed to some sort of substance. And that substance has led to a change in their hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein in our red blood cells that normally carries around oxygen. And upon exposure to certain substances, drugs, um, things like that, um, it can sometimes have this, this kind of structural change that, uh, limits its ability to carry oxygen. And that state is known as methemoglobinemia. And so this is another, again, uncommon situation. But whenever I hear about a patient whose oxygen pulse ox is like 85 ish, and it's not budging, methemoglobinemia is a source of suspicion. And so at this point, I think the most immediate and urgent things to do, uh, is a, to look more carefully to evaluate for some form of shunt, um, whether in the lungs or in the heart. And then aside from that, I would be talking to this patient about what substances they may have recently ingested, supplements they may have recently taken, because there are certainly drugs and supplements that can cause that condition, um, to try to get a better sense of it, as well as sending off an arterial blood gas with, uh, what's called co-ocimetry and some other things to look for how much methemoglobin could there be in the patient's blood, because that would be another test of choice. And then there are specific treatments for that if that's what we end up finding. The only thing that doesn't entirely fit with that last diagnosis, even though it's an interesting and compelling one here, uh, given the patient's age and like the potential exposure and things like that is you don't usually expect methemoglobinemia to present with like crushing chest pain, which is a little unusual as far as why somebody, uh, you know, with a, you know, some form of shunting might have a chest pain is if they have a, uh, you know, for example, a septal wall rupture or something like that, like some form of, uh, maybe had congenital heart disease and he had a cat, a kind of a catastrophic structural, uh, or a structural catastrophe in his heart, for example, that happened abruptly and led to some pain, um, things like that. So that's kind of where my mind is right now, uh, looking for structural anatomic reasons for shunting and then thinking about methemoglobinemia while getting some further imaging of his heart and heart and lungs and getting a better history from him. Uh, today I learned of a new fear that I have, which is having a structural catastrophe, virtually anything in my body. Yeah, exactly. All right. Well, look, we got some, some labs and some imaging for you. All right. So first off, some, some labs that you probably would have expected to get a little earlier here. So his hemoglobin is mildly elevated, 17.1. It's white blood cell counts also mildly elevated at 12.5. Normal kidney function and liver associated enzymes. His CK level, uh, is 945, which is elevated. His lactate is 3.5, which is also a little bit elevated. His CKMB is 29.9%. Normal is less than 3%. This is, uh, usually a marker that's historically used for damage to the heart. Uh, it's not as sensitive and specific as troponins are, but it does tend to rise and fall faster. So anyway, they drove this, they pulled this and it's 29.9%, but it does have a normal troponin level and a normal D-dimer, which your head's going to explode from the D-dimer. They did an echocardiogram, which revealed a structurally and functionally normal heart with no pericardial fluid collection. So at this particular time, this would be another time to pause the podcast and refine your differential diagnosis. If you're playing along at home, Dr. Baraki, does any of this change what you're thinking about? Like, uh, what's, what's going on with this patient? Uh, yeah, helpful in, in some ways, not terribly surprising, um, in, in, in others, I suppose. So one question I would have, you know, this patient has a hemoglobin of 17, which is technically normal, but a little higher than we tend to see in, in a lot of people. And so when we see slightly higher than expected hemoglobins, one of the possible causes is if the, of course, in the fitness space, is this patient on anabolics or testosterone or something like that? So that's, that's one question. But the other is that our hemoglobins can go up as a compensation if we have chronically low blood oxygen levels. And so we see this, for example, in people who are smokers, or if you are a high level athlete, uh, you might go and train at altitude for several months or something like that. That's a way to make that happen. That kind of compensatory response. So what would be interesting is getting it, you know, looking maybe if we have any access to prior records of this patient, prior labs, prior sets of vital signs, if he had any issues with that. You mentioned he's a smoker, but man, 38 years old is still a bit too young to develop severe enough, uh, chronic hypoxemia in most cases, unless he has some other kind of second hit or, uh, you know, multiple, uh, lung diseases, which were for some reason, not apparent on his chest imaging, right? Um, most of these other lab findings don't get me terribly excited related to his kidneys, his liver, the CK. I don't really care about at that level. The lactate is, uh, just a sign of like, I'm kind of a little worried about this patient. It's not insanely high, but it's not low either. It just tells me there's something probably bad going on. And so the, the more useful thing you gave me was the echocardiogram. I'm going to have to make some assumptions about how this echocardiogram was done and what specific maneuvers and tests and things like that, that they did if they specifically looked for evidence of shunting on this echo. There's some, some things that are getting a little bit into the weeds here related to things like called a bubble study and things like that, to look for shunts in the lungs or shunts in the heart. But if I'm going to take this at face value and say that it is indicative of normal heart structure and normal heart function, then that does take off some of those A structural catastrophes, uh, that I, that I mentioned. Uh, for example, if the patient did have some kind of, uh, you know, septal defect or, or wall rupture or something like that, that led to some shunting where it shouldn't have been. Uh, and then also the other types of shunting that would have been evaluated. And so I'm feeling a bit better about this patient's, uh, cardiac situation. I still don't have very thorough, uh, lung imaging. Although again, most of the causes of low blood oxygen levels that relate to lung related diseases, um, A, show up on imaging and B, uh, tend to respond to giving the patient oxygen outside of, uh, you know, certain, certain things like, um, having, uh, uh, some of these intrapulmonary shunts, arteriovenous malformations, having severe pulmonary hypertension, that might be a little bit more difficult to, to diagnose. Although there would be even some findings on EKG from that. So I'm, I'm starting to run out of, uh, additional reasons here. I would still end up getting probably some more advanced imaging of this patient's, uh, lungs. I'm still wanting more information on his exposures and drug history and supplement history and things like that. I would like definitely, when I had a patient's, uh, hypoxemia that didn't respond to oxygen, I definitely want that more detailed arterial blood gas, which is not a test that I actually order all that often in my kind of routine practice. Most of the time a pulse ox is good enough because most of the time people do respond to supplemental oxygen and I can figure out the reason for it. So I do want that more advanced, um, assessment of his, um, blood gas and methemoglobin and things like that. And also just, I would end up obviously being curious if I have this patient still in the ER or admitted to the ICU or something like what the trajectory is of his symptoms and chest pain and things like that. And really, if there's been anything that I can, uh, that I can do to get his, uh, his oxygen level up. Yeah. Well, look, you, you had a conference with big pharma and you actually had to leave the hospital. And so you can only see this patient the next morning, which is where the story jumps to. So the next morning, the hypoxia, the shortness of breath and the cyanosis resolved overnight without any additional intervention. Um, fortunately his ABG came back that you, uh, ordered, but the lab was taking a sweet time despite you ordering it stat. Uh, no, no shade to, to the lab people listening to this. It has a normal pH, normal carbon dioxide, a very high oxygen, uh, while he was on supplemental oxygen, it was at 450 millimeters of, uh, mercury, uh, despite his pulse ox of 84%, as I, as you recall, uh, they did co-oxymetry as well, but I'm not telling you that. No, I'm just kidding. It was 28.5% for met hemoglobin, uh, for met hemoglobin. Um, this is often, this is a test that's often run parallel to a standard ABG, although sometimes you got to order it. Normal levels are less than 1% typically. Uh, the patient denied any exposure to, uh, dapsone, antimalarials, nitrates, illicit drugs. Um, but he did say, Hey, look, I've been using this natural creatine for a while, some protein, some testosterone, you know, for the training gains. Um, but he said, the only thing that changed was that I started using these, uh, inhaled smelling salts the first time, uh, that particular training session, about 30 minutes prior, uh, to his session. So at this particular time, that's all the information that you get, Dr. Baraki and for the listeners at home. So this is the time you would pause, you'd come with your final diagnosis and Dr. Baraki. Now you get to give us your final diagnosis as to what the heck's going on with this patient. Yeah. So it seems like I was on the right track, uh, based on, um, some of these results. Basically the interesting thing here, and this is kind of the tip off is you have a patient who's arterial blood gas. You mentioned he had very high oxygen levels while on supplemental oxygen. And so this is a, this can be a little tricky for those who are, I guess, not in the, in the biz. Uh, so the oxygen level that you are describing on an ABG is the PAO2. It's the partial pressure of oxygen that is dissolved in the blood. That's actually a different and separate measurement than the, uh, oxygen saturation or the hemoglobin saturation, which is what we measure when we use the little pulse ox things. Cause a lot of people, for example, like bought those maybe during the pandemic to like monitor their blood oxygen levels and things like that. And so the way that I like to teach it and think about it is there's a bunch of oxygen in the ambient room air around us. And then that air gets sucked into our lungs. It has to get down into our alveoli, the little pockets at the end of our airways from there, it has to, you know, make the jump from our lungs into our bloodstream. And there the oxygen is literally just dissolved in the liquid of our blood. That's this PAO2 measurement. And so when you tell me that his ox PAO2 or that oxygen level is very high on supplemental oxygen, that's what I expect because we're dumping a lot of oxygen into his lungs. And that oxygen is kind of cascading downward, like a waterfall through the lungs into the alveoli and into the blood. So it's getting into the blood where I want it to be. But for some reason it is limited. It is being inhibited or blocked or failing to bind for some reason between that PAO2 and the SAO2 or the SpO2, which is the saturation of hemoglobin. So there's some problem that is preventing the oxygen dissolved in the blood from getting onto our hemoglobin. And that can be due to things like problems with the hemoglobin itself.  aut autoppoeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropeneropener So, you know, with co-oximetry that is often also used to assess for carbon monoxide content in the blood, because that's not something we can tell through something like a plain old pulse ox measurement. And so, yeah, you mentioned that his methemoglobin levels were 28%, which is, I would say, mildly elevated, not actually in like the super critical, severe, like fatal range when you're getting way up to like 50 plus percent and higher. This is actually not a condition that's very common. It's not something I've seen a lot of over the years. This is just something that I know of more so and I'm like hypervigilant for in the hospital setting, especially anytime I hear about that, just like this patient's oxygen is 85% and it's not budging. Again, that's like kind of textbook for this. And then you just look for what's the exposure? What caused it? There are it's almost always related to some form of drug or medication exposure. And so you mentioned this patient having a new exposure to the inhaled smelling salts. And so I'm curious about the kind of I forget if it's nitrates or nitrites or some some sort of component of those that is likely triggering this change in hemoglobin to cause hemoglobinemia. Yeah. That also would fit nicely with a story of somebody whose situation kind of resolved spontaneously without intervention overnight, because that's going to be a naturally pretty short acting exposure. It's not something that is going to persist and lead to such severe levels that he would need intervention treatment with things like IV methylene blue and things like that, which is often the management of this. Yeah, well, he was diagnosed with met hemoglobinemia. I knew you would get that as soon as I told you that his level was at twenty eight point five percent and nothing else was wrong. Sure. This patient. But yeah, he basically observed for another day. Since all of his symptoms resolved, it was discharged at following that period of observation. Pretty interesting case because like how, though, like how you know, how did he get this? So I wanted to briefly talk about met hemoglobinemia and like the actual explanation of why this patient got this from allegedly using smelling salts. I'd also like to point out that you still had little faith in me getting this case. And yeah, well, I to be clear, I added the blue part. I think had I left out the blue of the cyanosis, it would have been unfair. And ultimately, until you learned about the ABG finding, the co-oximetry findings from the ABG, I think it would. It would have been on the differential, I suspect. Once you told me that his pulse ox was 84 percent and didn't get better with oxygen and there was no shunt. There's the answer. So anyway. Yeah. So as Dr. Baraki mentioned, the red blood cells transport oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissue. They carry carbon dioxide back to the lungs for exhalation. All right. Hemoglobin is a protein that fills the red blood cell and it binds oxygen on the way to the tissues and carbon dioxide on the way back. The heme group in the hemoglobin has an iron atom for this purpose. Now, chemically, iron is in the reduced state Fe2 plus. Go think back to your chemistry days, which allows it to reversibly bind to oxygen. Now, in met hemoglobinemia, the heme molecule loses an electron, which is called oxidation. And it's now Fe3 plus instead of Fe2 plus. Now, in this ferric state, Fe3 plus, it cannot bind oxygen. So it's functionally inert for respiration and creates a sort of functional anemia, if you will. You're just not delivering a bunch of oxygen to the tissues. And blood will actually be like a little chocolate brown instead of red. So the ABG would have come back and it would have been like appears brown. You'd be like, oh, I know what this is. So the body does actually possess a few different ways to deal with some generation of methemoglobin. We do make some of this every day, all day. But levels are kept very low normally, usually less than 1 percent at this. But above this level, we typically call that methemoglobinemia. And like Dr. Baraki said, this is not like a crazy high level, but it is normally symptomatic on some level. Less than 15 percent that can be asymptomatic. But in this range, typically mild to moderate symptoms, above 50 percent, 60 percent, 70 percent. Now we're talking lethal levels of methemoglobin, mainly because now you're just not getting oxygen to the tissues. So clinical signs are related to the degree of methemoglobinemia. So basically just lack of oxygen that's getting to the tissue. So the higher it is, yeah, look, the person can turn blue. They can be short of breath. They can get fatigue, confusion. And, yeah, the one really interesting and almost giveaway finding was that his pulse ox was like capped at like 84, 85 percent despite being on a ton of oxygen. And you're like – and then you got the ABG that says, yep, you're getting a ton of oxygen. The lungs are structurally, as best as you can tell, intact, working correctly. Why is his oxygen so low? Yeah, I still don't know why he had chest pain. But, you know, pain is weird. Yeah, so the nitrates and nitrites are chemicals most commonly implicated in epidemic instances of methemoglobinemia. So like nitrate contaminated well water, so like a bunch of people turning up with methemoglobinemia. But in this case, it was believed that smelling salts caused methemoglobinemia in this particular patient. Now, when most people particularly listen to this podcast think about smelling salts, you think about those little ammonium capsules that you just crack. And there's some level of ammonium carbonate that's mixed with like water and some alcohol, and when you break it, it releases a vapor. And yeah, people do that to try to lift more. We did a podcast on this as far as whether or not it works. The data is not awesome, but I think people habitually use them, and they're like, I like this stuff. Yeah. Okay. I did – I'm not a chemist. Okay. I've taken a lot of chemistry, and I have access to the internet, and whatever. I tried to find a way where this particular type of ammonium carbonate could oxidize iron like by smelling it, and I could not find a reasonable chemical pathway by which that could happen and cause methemoglobinemia. So then I was like, oh, what if you just ate the capsule instead? It would be more corrosive to like the esophagus than anything else. So – and then I looked at the case report again to see if they had like a picture of the thing, and I don't know if what they put in the paper was the actual thing that the patient was taking. But it looked like inhaled ammonium like poppers, right, like was it amyl nitrate or nitrite or whatever it is, which can cause methemoglobinemia if used aggressively. So I suspect that this particular individual was not – didn't pick up like a bunch of cap, like ammonium caps that powerlifters use in like the – before they go out and pull their heavy deadlifts or something like that. I suspect it was poppers, and he just like did that before he went into the gym because he was like, oh, more blood flow or something like that, or – and then went to the gym and was like, I don't know. I don't feel so good. I further suspect that the chest pain was more related to anxiety about like not being – like being short of breath or something like that or maybe a head rush. I don't know, man. Yeah, possible. It's just you're never safe to assume that chest pain is from anxiety until everything else has been looked at. So, yeah, I think they did all the right things in taking it seriously. But, yeah, it is – I guess I would say if this patient rolled up to the emergency department and they had those vital signs and that oxygen level that didn't get better and a clear chest X-ray, that actually is not screaming like this is a straight-up normal like quote-unquote myocardial infarction or like a run-of-the-mill heart attack. It's like this – you know, the lungs are clear. He doesn't have pulmonary edema or cardiogenic shock from a heart attack. Like those would be better explanations for something like that and would actually get better with some supplemental oxygen. So there were multiple just like weird things about this case, and then that – yeah, that definitely took us in a different direction. Yeah. Most common causes not like at epidemic levels like environmental exposure would be like drugs, dapsone, for example, poppers, nitrites, as we mentioned here, adulterants in street drugs. Treatment usually revolves around not only supportive care for the patient but also like removal of the toxic exposure. And methylene blue is a common agent used here, not like recreationally, but in this particular case because it helps reduce that ferric iron out of back down to the ferrous state, Fe2+. But you got to make sure the patient doesn't have like the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency, G6PD deficiency if they also have methemoglobinemia for some reason because methylene blue can actually cause like a hemolytic anemia where you're just crushing red blood. In that case, I think people – what is it, vitamin C that is used? Yeah. Yeah. This is something – this is a scenario where you would typically end up involving a toxicologist in your management because it's just not seen frequently enough for most generalists to be making those types of decisions for sure. Yeah. I also found that if somebody was on like serotonergic drugs for some particular reason, whether recreationally or they were prescribed that, that methylene blue can act as like a monoamine – an MOA. Oh, interesting. And can cause like a serotonin syndrome. Huh. Okay. Didn't know that. I was like, well, look, for all the patients that I manage with methemoglobin, thanks for that. But in any case, the prognosis for most patients experiencing acquired methemoglobinemia is pretty good. Yeah. You just remove the toxic exposure, supportive treatment, usually give them some methylene blue, symptoms dissolve quickly, and patients can be discharged after some observation. There are some congenital diseases that actually cause like a persistent like chronic methemoglobinemia. They're pretty rare, like hemoglobin M disease, type 1 CYB5R deficiency. Yeah. I'd never heard of that one before. I was like, that's interesting. Don't know anything about these. Yeah. But they have some persistent level of methemoglobinemia their entire life, and their life expectancy is the same as people who don't have it. Cool. So I suspect this is like a threshold thing. Like once it gets high enough and your body's like, hey, man, we actually can't tolerate this, so you should fix it. Yeah, I suspect I don't know anything about those conditions because they sound more like congenital kind of pediatric genetic type things, and they're not common. But I do wonder like if there's some low level persistent, you know, methemoglobin levels, if, you know, obviously your body can adapt to these things in certain ways. So maybe you're actually able to generate a higher level of hemoglobin to compensate your tissue level oxygen extraction from the blood probably goes up. So you might not have – even if you have a normal life expectancy, I suspect you probably don't have like the same maybe like peak aerobic performance potential. But that's just a hypothesis here, but that's an interesting thing. Yeah. Yeah, it could be. Alternatively, like they may just be, you know, persistently blue, and people are like, interesting. Yeah. In any case, yeah, did you find the case interesting? Super interesting. It's a fun one, and mainly I think because, you know, like I said, I see chest pain and shortness of breath literally every day. And most of the time, it's not something super uncommon or esoteric or rare. A lot of it's COPD and heart failure and, you know, coronary disease and things like that. And so getting down my like mental framework for this to the level where I'm talking about stuff like shunts and methemoglobinemia and things like that, it's just inherently a little bit more interesting because it's a little bit less of a run-of-the-mill type thing. And it's great for teaching physiology and pathophysiology to learners because if you can really grasp the difference in, you know, if you can understand hypoxemia and get a sense of, well, why did this patient's oxygen level not get better, then you understand this topic. And that can be the way that I can identify where a learner's at in their journey. Yeah. Yeah. See you in the hospital. All right. That is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning and strength and conditioning to modern medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. Special shout-out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us on this episode of the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Barbell Medicine Podcast.