 OKKKKabergidmin, pragmatic, pragmatic, pragmatic, pragmatic, pragmatic, pragmatic, the mechanism behind it, and what the brand new 2026 guidelines say about a drug class that 40 million Americans take. I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum, and this is the Barbell Medicine Podcast. And to help us figure out why trying to get stronger is making this guy weaker, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? All right. My mind is already going. Sometimes we jump right into the case and you record the intro later. So all I have heard is that this is somebody who's training and getting weaker. So my mind is going. I have some differentials. Is overtraining syndrome at the top or the bottom? It has not yet crossed my mind until you just said that thing. So that's what I'm here for. All right. Well, we're going to transport you into clinic. Okay. And this is your next patient. Here's what the referral says. This is coming from another primary care clinic. It's a 43-year-old man. He's got a BMI of 32, a waist circumference of 104 centimeters. He's on medication for high blood pressure. His fasting glucose is high normal, about 115. About a year ago, his previous GP ran a lipid panel and it came back pretty bad. His total cholesterol is 278. His triglycerides were 448. His HDL was 37. So he started on a medication for lipids at that point. Works a physical job in a warehouse and recently decided to start training on top of that. Now he went back to his previous primary care doctor. They did another lipid panel and his numbers were still elevated and his doctor wanted to put him on a second medication. And he said, no dice doc. I need to find another doctor. I need to get a second opinion. And he's also here because his strength has been going backwards and nobody can tell him why. And he heard that you're the strongest doctor in Texas. And so he wanted to see you. So I'm going to let you take a history. We're going to flip this a little bit. You could ask me whatever you'd like. And I'm going to tell you what the patient would say. I am not the patient in this particular case. I like it. Okay. So I'm just going to summarize what I hear first. We have a 43-year-old guy, not a ton of other prior medical history, but appears to have obesity, high blood pressure that is treated with a medicine that you have not told me the name of. He has some impaired fasting glucose and then some what I'll call mixed hyperlipidemia or atherogenic dyslipidemia, pretty high triglycerides in the 400s and a low HDL cholesterol, which is reflective of his insulin resistance also manifested in that glucose. And that despite doing some form of strength training, his strength has, quote, been going backwards. Do I have that right so far? Nailed it. Okay. The first thing I'm curious about is whether this strength that has been going backwards, is it more generalized or is it localized to a particular part of his body? Yeah. So basically when this patient works out, he's doing it at home with dumbbells. He's doing some circuit stuff that he's found online. And basically he's finding that not only does he get fatigued more quickly when he's trying to lift, but also he's not able to do as many reps and he's had to take the weight down periodically, mainly after a few days of doing this. So effectively, you'll start the week out and it'll kind of be back to baseline, but then it'll go down by Tuesday and then Wednesday's worse and then I'll have to take a rest day. And so he's unclear why he feels like the workouts aren't really that hard, but he's experiencing some premature fatigue that he's just calling a decrease in strength. Got it. Okay. So that's an interesting description. And then the next question is that the time course of this, has this been over the course of a couple of days, a couple of weeks, a couple of months? What's been the timeline there? Well, basically his doctor previously had been trying to get him to exercise. He started doing it at home, especially after the doctor wanted to put him on a second medication, which he begrudgingly started. And so he's been working out for about two weeks now. And this all kind of started at the end of the first week and then now is taking place in the second week. And that's why he's here to see you. Okay. So I'm going to try to summarize what I heard that he did end up starting the second lipid lowering therapy medicine. Is that right? Yes. Okay. So now he's on a blood pressure medicine and two lipid lowering medicines. And then in the two weeks since he has been on the second lipid lowering medicine, he has noticed this kind of progressive strength, uh, sort of delayed onset strength decline in the aftermath of his workouts. Is that right? Yep. Got it. And it does not seem to be localized like to one leg or one arm, but rather it's more generalized across his body. Um, the next couple of questions are, does he have any muscle pain? Uh, he says sometimes his legs feel heavy, for example, but muscle pain, eh, he's not sure because he just started working out. So he's like, is it soreness? Is this muscle pain? Unclear. His muscles sometimes ache a little bit, but he did just start working out. Yeah. Not so strikingly disproportionate that it has alarmed him as like a primary complaint. Okay. And then he, he says he feels more quickly fatigued. My sense based on what you've told me is that he feels that this is kind of more muscular fatigue in nature. Has he had any shortness of breath, uh, that he has, uh, experienced that feels disproportionate or inappropriate to him? No shortness of breath. Uh, basically again, he just kind of started working out and initially he was real, real sore and it kind of went away. So he figured that was just newbie type stuff, but then he's just not quite as strong as the second week that he's been active and he figured he'd be getting better, not worse. Sure. Okay. Uh, all right. So I'm kind of summarizing what I'm thinking right now and where I would like to take this next in terms of my, um, evaluation. So we have this, this guy kind of a prototypical, like early middle-aged with obesity, some features of metabolic syndrome on a blood pressure medicine recently started on two lipid lowering medicines. I have some guesses as to what those might be in kind of a traditional, um, uh, method of, of treating his, his lab patterns who has started exercise, string training in particular at home with dumbbells and is having, uh, seemingly, uh, kind of some, some premature, we'll call it fatigability, some regression in his strength performance that feels, uh, odd and unexpected, especially for somebody who's just getting started with training. Yep. If you, if you'd like to ask for a medication history, this patient's happy to, happy to tell you. Also, if you wanted like a family history or anything else, he's, uh, willing and able to answer. Yeah. Okay. Well, so I didn't know if you're purposefully withholding some of these things from me. So yes, I'm, I'm guessing that he's on a statin as one and then potentially an addition of something else, maybe with his triglyceride, something like a fibrate or something like that. But let me know what, what did he get put on? Yeah. He was initially started on phenofibrate, 160 milligrams per day, started first for the triglycerides and then a tour of a statin 20, uh, which is a statin about, um, about a month later for the cholesterol. He's also taking bistolic for his blood pressure, but he doesn't take any supplements. Um, and so yeah, that's his, the current list of medications. Okay. Gotcha. Um, so no other medicines. Is he using any supplements currently? No supplements. He decides, uh, declines that he's using or denies using any supplements. Okay. Does he, uh, drink alcohol or any other drug use history? No drug use history. He does have about two drinks per week on average, but that's about all usually beer. All right. Uh, and then does he have any other prior medical diagnoses, um, that have not been revealed to me, uh, so far personal medical history. So besides the high blood pressure and the cholesterol, no other known medical history. He does have a smoking history about 25 pack years, and he was also recently prescribed, uh, Chantix, uh, in order to, to quit. Um, took that for about two weeks, but basically stopped it on its own because, uh, didn't feel like it was working. And so he's still, still doing some smoking. Gotcha. Okay. All right. Um, and you, uh, you alluded to the idea that his family history may have some, some relevance here. Uh, and so go for it. What do we got? Uh, he has some obesity in both parents. His father had a heart attack at the age of 68. Um, but otherwise no known, uh, medical history from his, from his parents. Oh, okay. So it turns out not so much. Does he have any siblings? Has no siblings. No siblings. Okay. Um, so I'm kind of going to summarize my, my thoughts, uh, as far as where we are in the case right now. Um, this concern that somebody has of, I'll just characterize it as, I guess you can call it, uh, some exertional fatigue, some, some weakness, uh, type of manifestations. I often like to go back to my basic physiology when laying out differential diagnoses for these cases. And so that's kind of why I was trying to differentiate. Does he have, for example, shortness of breath with activity? Is this more a cardiorespiratory, cardiopulmonary, cardiovascular limitation in his exertional capacity? Um, or is it more muscular force production? Because that takes us down two different paths. We think about like the heart, the blood, the lungs, the oxygen carrying capacity. If somebody's having like premature fatigue from an aerobic standpoint or their conditioning, uh, whereas I go down the like neuraxis, which we've talked about before for force production from the brain, the spinal cord, the nerves, the muscles, things like that. Um, in this case, I'm not getting so much of a signal for cardiorespiratory, cardiovascular, like a oxygen delivery and utilization, uh, as a limitation, but maybe more so something having to do with force production, um, going on. But the interesting thing is it seems to be, um, both, uh, limitations with his exercise, but he has this kind of progressive nature to it, um, that, that lingers for a few days and almost worsens for a couple of days after his activity and then very gradually kind of recovers afterwards. Um, there's a, there's some things that can, uh, uh, manifest in this way. There are some issues with the neurological system, you know, going down like neuropathies to the, to the neuromuscular junction, um, things like that, like myasthenia gravis is characterized by having like fatigability with, with exertion, although still not exactly fitting this pattern. Um, and then other things specific to the muscle itself, um, like myopathies, um, certain muscle specific diseases where somebody might have this type of intolerance of force production, uh, exercise. That's also why I asked about pain because muscular pain in that context can, in some situations, help to differentiate something that's a bit more localized to the muscle, like a myopathy or myositis, things like that versus a more neurological issue that would tend to not have as much, um, muscular pain, uh, sort of associated with it. The reason I'm currently slightly leaning towards a muscle specific issue is definitely in the context of the, the, the timing of this in the context of recently starting several of these medications. Um, the way that his medicines were started, I would say is not, uh, correct. Um, he was started initially on phenifibrate, which is, I can understand why somebody might think to do that first, if they were very alarmed by the triglyceride level of 448. However, the correct management, even in that situation, in addition to standard kind of lifestyle, uh, uh, modifications, dietary modifications would be, um, uh, typically first line in that situation would be a statin over a fibrate, um, in general. And then the, the fibrate would be, uh, definitely next subsequent line of therapy, not, not ideally the, the first line. There are some statin fibrate combinations that can, uh, interact and can increase the risk of, uh, myopathy to a greater extent. Fortunately, the combination that he's on is not one of those very high risk, uh, combinations, uh, but it's still possible, um, for this sort of thing to, to arise in this situation. And then lastly, statins by themselves can contribute to, uh, muscular issues and in very, very, very rare cases can lead to more substantial, um, autoimmune inflammatory myositis and myopathies and things like that, that are still in the very back of my mind, but are things that I've seen a handful of times, um, over the years. So some of my next steps here, if I were seeing this person face-to-face would be to essentially do an exam, do a standard kind of cardiorespiratory, cardiopulmonary exam, and then strength testing, um, things like that to see, make, to confirm that what I'm seeing on exam is matching what he's telling me. I'm not finding something more localizing, something that's very disproportionate or that doesn't fit with his history, seeing if it is all kind of concordant from there, potentially looking into some laboratory testing, not only basic lab testing, but also looking at like, uh, markers of muscular injury, like CK elevation, things like that, that would be disproportionate with his degree of like recent muscular, you know, activity and exercise and things like that before taking things further. All right. Well, I'm going to give you some more information. You know, we've got a full history now. And before I give you some new labs that you would likely order on your own, I'll give you the physical exam. It's mostly unremarkable, pretty benign physical exam outside of the musculoskeletal exam. His strength was normal. Reflexes were normal. All sorts of signs point to goodness, save for, it's pretty sore when you, when you touch him, particularly in his, uh, biceps, for example, and his quadriceps, uh, when you press on them, he does have some tenderness there. It does appear to be slightly swollen. Um, you know, nothing too out of the ordinary, but, uh, a little, a little tenderness to palpation, both in both of those areas. So before we go any further though, I did want to pose you two questions. You kind of gave us your summary of this patient, but the next question is, you know, since he says he's been sore since starting exercise, how do you think about sorting out like normal new exerciser soreness from something else? Yeah, I think it's, um, there's not a simple answer to this. It's kind of, uh, taking, taking a history on the person's prior level of fitness and level of adaptation and trying to distinguish, like, what's the degree of, uh, inflection, uh, that happened here. And what would I expect? Part of this requires some degree of insight yourself. Like it helps if you're the, if you, the doctor, who's like taking this history, if you also exercise and you have some insight into like, what's a normal level of soreness to expect from, from this type of activity. But you're telling me this is not a guy who has just been like living on the couch for years and then suddenly started, you know, going to the gym and doing a lot of like eccentric heavy strength training where it's like, yeah, you may well be like cripplingly sore for, for a little bit. It sounds like he's a very active person with his, uh, with his line of work. And so it's not to say that, you know, there's no, there's not going to be any soreness when he picks up activity, but if he's used to like loading and unloading 18 wheelers, and then you start doing like a light home dumbbell program, I wouldn't expect such soreness that it's going to like bring you into a primary care clinic with that being your primary complaint, unless I hear you say like, oh, I did this program that had me do like a hundred set, uh, a hundred reps of goblet squats or something like that. Yeah. So it's a matter of like the dosage of training, the type of training compared with your baseline level of fitness that I can try to gather from your habitual level of activity and prior training history and things like that. And so that's kind of why it feels disproportionate in this individual. He is, you know, reasonably, uh, physically active, um, not completely deconditioned and his home, uh, exercise program. We didn't get all of the details of exactly like sets and reps and exercises that he's doing, but I suspect it's not just like absolute massive training volume that he started doing kind of, kind of all at once. Is that fair to say? So that's how I would go about it. Yeah. What do you think? Yeah, no, it's pretty good. And I think before we go further with some of the laboratory data, this particular patient, he's a 43 year old guy, BMI over 30. He's got some high triglycerides. His blood pressure is elevated and needs to be on medication and a cholesterol panel that's alarming enough that his doctor put him on two drugs for it. He smokes, he drinks a little bit. Uh, he works a very physical job and after getting some bad lab results, he did exactly what every doctor would want him to do. He starts exercising. That's not a rare situation. Well, maybe the exercise part, but the patient here describes a huge chunk of the adult population in the United States and globally metabolic syndrome alone, which is basically the cluster of things that Sky has affects about one in three American adults. So not exactly a rare case. Now, Austin, from a clinical standpoint, when you see a patient like this walk in, what's on your radar? What's the thing you're most worried about long-term and what does the medication strategy actually look like for someone, uh, with this many overlapping risk factors? Yeah. So we're seeing a lot of concerning findings like red flags of complications of obesity, of likely visceral fat accumulation, things that are putting him at increased risk of downstream health complications. All of the most common things. He probably has a degree of fatty liver disease. He has the high blood sugar, the high blood pressure, the high blood cholesterol, the high triglycerides. He is a setup for future cardiovascular risk downstream. If things were not addressed sooner, he is very likely to progress to having type two diabetes. And then that also opens up all of those complications, uh, complications of not only cardiovascular, but also affecting the eyes and the nerves and the kidneys and everything else that diabetes can impact. It can be immunocompromising, increasing the risk of various infections, et cetera. So we have a lot of things that we can potentially prevent by intervening, um, at this point. And so as far as the strategy goes, I'll say that there are two general paradigms that you could, uh, that you could apply in this situation. One is going to be the traditional, uh, quote unquote paradigm of approaching this, where we would treat his blood pressure. We would treat his blood sugar. We would treat his blood cholesterol, for example. So he could be on a blood pressure medicine. He could be on metformin for his, you know, maybe pre-diabetes. If he's approaching the diabetes diagnosis, he can go on lipid lowering therapy, things like that. Um, as well as ideally, if you're lucky, uh, get some counseling for the lifestyle related changes. Maybe if you're even luckier, have access to, uh, getting referred to, uh, you know, a registered dietitian or something like that. Um, I would say that the more kind of modern, uh, uh, the big brain paradigm that should preferably be applied these days would be attacking the problem at its source. And the source here is the adiposity, likely the excess abdominal body fat, um, the fat that is likely infiltrating this individual's liver if we can attack that. And the way to most potently go about doing that is going to be through a combination of the lifestyle interventions, which we're happy to go over. We've been talking about this for a better part of a decade or more at this point, but we can certainly do that again. Um, as well as, uh, medical therapy, uh, medical intervention on top of the lifestyle things up front, just because look, I'm trying to prevent all these complications and help you live longer. And I'm like less biased in terms of how exactly we go about it compared with what you'll hear a lot of folks, uh, talking about on the internet where it has to be lifestyle or, or nothing. And so maybe this person is a, um, should be initiated on something like an anti-obesity medication, like a GLP-1 receptor agonist, like, you know, terzepatide, for example. Um, and then the, the, the other kind of escalatory line of therapy, which absent any intervention is not the first thing I'm, that I'm going to jump to, but rather thinking about, is this person somebody who may be a candidate for consideration of metabolic bariatric surgery? Um, again, not something that, um, is like on day one that I meet this person going to be immediately making happen, but it's in the back of my mind as, yep, it's an option. He actually would, you know, in, he may well meet criteria for eligibility for that sort of thing. And so this is the more modern paradigm because instead of kind of trying to cut the individual heads off the hydra of your blood pressure and your blood sugar and your blood cholesterol and treating the complications, treating the quote unquote root cause, which is, uh, the, the smart way to go about this addressing the obesity itself through lifestyle medications, potentially surgery is the way to fix all of those other things. Um, and so that would be my, my approach, um, here. And so that may involve starting a GLP-1 receptor agonist. It may still also involve starting some lipid lowering therapy. As I said, I would not be initiating a fibrate in this situation. Um, I do not tend to use vibrates very often at all. It's pretty uncommon that I end up prescribing them to patients outside of very extreme, um, situations, but most of the time it's going to be a relatively, uh, potent statin, um, for, for some of these individuals. And then other interventions, there are a lot of really potent lifestyle strategies to manage triglyceride levels, as well as prescription, uh, fish oil, omega-3 derivatives and things like that, that can also be useful in that situation that I might look at for somebody like this as well. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's what I'm hearing from you is that, you know, the whole point of treating this guy aggressively is that his cardiac risk is real and not just his cardiovascular risk, but also the risk to his kidneys, the risk to his liver, this, you know, CKM sort of situation. And so rather than just doing one thing at a time, seeing how the person responds, we want to get all of these variables, quote, optimized as quickly as possible, because effectively the risk from these things is worse over time, the longer you let them kind of persist. Um, and the exercise piece is supposed to help with all of it. We know that, and he's doing it. He's taking his medications, he's, uh, open to quitting smoking, he's getting off the couch, which is what makes the next part of this case so important because something in that picture, maybe that combination of doing all the right things actually goes sideways. And the question is whether anyone catches it in time and whether this guy ends up trusting the medical system enough to keep using it going forward. And that's coming up next. So we've got the history, we've got the med list. Now let's see the labs because there's a number on this panel that probably is going to change where your brain is going. So his lipid panel, he's got a second one here is total cholesterol is 250. His triglycerides are 154, both down significantly from where he started, which was a cholesterol of 278 and triglycerides of 48. The medications are doing their job on the lipid side. And then there's the CK, a quick definition for anyone who hasn't heard this term. We've talked about a lot on the podcast, but if you're new to the podcast, CK stands for creatine kinase. It's an enzyme that lives inside the muscle cells. And when the muscle cells get damaged, CK leaks into the blood, the more damage, the higher the number. And a normal CK is somewhere under 170 or so, depending on the lab. This patient CK came back at 18,979. That's over 150 times the upper limit of normal. He came back into the office though. So he's sitting right in front of you. He says he feels fine, maybe a little sore, but what's going through your mind? Yeah, this is basically what I expected, especially when you told me that on our physical exam, his muscles, he had seemingly like muscular tenderness and maybe even some, some swelling there, which is again, disproportionate for somebody with his level of fitness who is doing not a terribly crazy home exercise program. And so I was concerned that he had a muscle kind of centric problem here, maybe some form of myopathy or myositis. That presentation can also fit with what exertional rhabdomyolysis looks like. And so that's where I would go back and say, can you tell me again, exactly what your home exercise program has looked like and, and, and how it's been feeling? Well, so Dr. Baraki, fine. You know, you're pressing me on this. I didn't want to mention it because I don't want to complain. You know, I just, uh, trying to do my best here. But when I first started working out with the dumbbells, I had a lot of soreness everywhere, chest, arms, legs, my legs felt heavy and stiff. And then I had some weird stuff when I went to the bathroom. I don't know. It was a little dark colored, but it went away after two days. Uh, and so I didn't think anything of it and, uh, just kept going and I feel fine today. So, yeah. Yeah. So we're at a point where we have definitively localized the problem to the muscles. The question is what is the nature of that problem? What are the precipitating provoking factors and what is the likely, um, we'll call it natural history. What is the likely prognosis of this going forward if we don't do anything about it? Or is there something that we have to do to intervene? That's kind of like where my mind is at right now. So what could be going on? He could have, I'll, I'll put this under the gigantic umbrella of like a muscle disease. We'll call it a myopathy of some kind that can be due to inflammation like my, uh, like myositis, um, which is often involves the involvement of the, uh, like immune system. There are autoimmune conditions where your body can attack its own muscles. And again, extremely rare cases. There are autoimmune forms of myositis that can be triggered by the use of statins. Very, very rare, but I've seen it a handful of times over the years. Uh, or he might not have an inflammatory myositis, but he might have a myopathy like, uh, um, related to his exertion itself, the, uh, rhabdomyolysis, uh, which can be exertional. Uh, and then lastly, he can also have rhabdomyolysis that is not necessarily exclusively exertional, but the exertion didn't necessarily help things. And, and what I mean is something that kind of set him up to have more vulnerable muscles. And one of my concerns there is the combination of statin and fibrate that in some situations can interact to increase the risk of a myopathy that in the setting of maybe more modest exercise than, um, that somebody might expect can trigger this sort of thing. So at this point in time, any of these are really possible. And to add one little layer of, of, uh, I don't know, caveat to, to what you said about the CK, while a quote unquote normal CK level might really be that low of what you were describing, like a hundred or something like that, there's a normal, you know, physiologically reasonable expected trajectory of CK that'll increase after exercise that wouldn't necessarily alarm me. If I had a trainee who, you know, did a hard workout and their CK level came back at 800 or a thousand or something that wouldn't really phase me. 18,000 is much more elevated. And especially when it's in the context of him having symptoms, muscular tenderness, swelling, telling me I've maybe had this episode of like dark urination, things like that. This much more fits the picture of somebody with rhabdomyolysis. And what I'm trying to get to the bottom of is, is this purely exertional? Is there something he's not telling me about? Like really how hard he exercised? Is he embarrassed to tell me that maybe he's not as fit as, as he thought? And he went too hard too soon. Or is it a combination thing where it was the exertion in the setting of being on the medications? Or lastly, the, the no miss sort of thing that would definitely require intervention. Is this, is this truly like an inflammatory or an autoimmune kind of muscle problem that really needs medical intervention to, to, to address. And I've seen all of these things happen in, in practice before. One of the more memorable cases that I can think of from several years back was this little old lady who actually came in and she was in Frank rhabdomyolysis and we asked her about her exertion and she was like, I was just doing my normal, like house cleaning, like nothing, nothing out of the ordinary. And she ended up having polymyositis, which is an autoimmune inflammatory myositis, but her like a normal habitual level of exertion in the context of that condition that she had developed became too much. And she ended up coming in with symptoms and was in rhabdo. And we had to do both. We had to treat the rhabdo and also suppress her immune system from attacking her own muscles. So that's kind of where I'm at in this case. You told me his lipids, you told me his CK. What I need to know is what does his urine look like? Not just visually, but a urinalysis. What does his kidney function look like? This guy should probably go to an emergency department and get some of those tests done relatively quickly. He may need some fluids and we need to see what his CK trend looks like. The possible ways this plays out is with that type of management, his CK gradually comes back down, never comes back up. He never has any problems again. We like recondition him a little bit more gradually to exercise. I would stop his vibrate. I would probably even hold his statin for the short time for the time being. The other way this plays out is he gets treated. His CK either never comes all the way down or just like plateaus at that level, which would make me much more concerned that he has like an ongoing kind of myositis type issue that would need, you know, some additional blood testing, potentially a muscle biopsy to sort out. Yeah. Yeah. Just for our audience, we've talked about rhabdomyolysis in detail on this podcast a number of times before, but just as a reminder, this is what happens when the muscle breaks down fast enough that the contents of the cells dump into the bloodstream in a large quantity. And one of those contents that's normally within the muscle cell is myoglobin, carries oxygen around. And when it hits the kidneys in high enough concentrations, it can clog things up and cause acute kidney injury. That's one of the things that makes rhabdomyolysis so dangerous, along with electrolyte disturbances that can possibly cause heart arrhythmia. The muscles can also swell too much, causing compartment syndrome, which we've talked about. And there are other sort of risks as well. So identifying rhabdomyolysis isn't more of like, Hey, cool. You got rhabdo and you got, you know, give yourself a high five for that. It's more like, do you need to go to the hospital or can we, you know, monitor you at home? And a distinction that we've also made before that's relevant here, and you've alluded to this is the difference between having just a high CK creatine kinase and actual rhabdomyolysis. Now there's a fancy term for CK that's about five times the upper limit of normal. Uh, sometimes it's called hyper CK emia. Uh, and people have this all the time, particularly athletes. There are people who just in response to exercise, their CK goes through the roof, but they're otherwise fine. And that happens no matter how trained they get or whatever. They just have a high CK level. These are hyper CK emia ers, if you will. But there's like 19,000 CK level is a different story. That's much higher than that. And to your point, it's, it impressed you enough where you're like, this guy probably needs to go to the hospital to, to suss this out. Um, and because it's more likely to be rhabdomyolysis at that level, we need to be concerned about the myoglobin. Uh, we need to be concerned, you know, what's going on with his urine to, to assess that as well as electrolytes and, and things of that nature. So we're going to call this rhabdomyolysis. So he was sent to the emergency room. Both of his medications, uh, were stopped the statin and the fibrate. They started IV fluids, uh, for his, for his kidneys on admission. His liver associated enzymes were also elevated. His ALT was 132. His AST was 248. Those are likely for muscle damage. I think you'd agree rather than the liver, but we don't know for sure. Uh, we did a whole episode on this. You can check, check that out. Our last mystery case, um, over the next several days, his CK came down first to 5,134 and then to 1,823. And his transaminases or liver associated enzymes also started dropping. His kidney function was normal throughout and he was discharged after two days. So I've got another set of questions for you here, Dr. Baraki first, what's your final diagnosis? Yeah. Uh, so it sounds like he responded kind of appropriately in terms of what I would expect for somebody with a kind of more routine or run of the mill case of rhabdomyolysis. In fact, it, once his CK got down to 5,000, I would have just discharged him from there. Uh, he didn't necessarily need to stay in the hospital too much longer. Um, the, uh, the risk of kidney problems, once you're down at that level is actually low enough that you can safely go home. They probably kept him in there a little bit longer than he needed to, but that's, that's okay. Uh, and so glad he didn't have any kidney complications or anything like that. So this was clearly a case of rhabdomyolysis. And I think that what we can likely conclude is that it was at least exertional rhabdomyolysis. And he may have had an additional predisposing contribution from the medications that he was taking and especially taking those in combination. And so this is not to say that he can never take any form of lipid lowering therapy again. Uh, but rather that particular combination and that combination in the context of that exercise program, probably not, uh, not the, the, the move for him. What I would do with somebody like this in practice is again, I would return to, I'm wanting to make sure that I'm treating the quote unquote root cause of his issue, addressing the obesity. There are probably honestly some pretty straightforward in, uh, dietary modifications that can relatively robustly improve those triglycerides. Like that's something that tends to be pretty, uh, uh, responsive to dietary changes in a lot of people. There are some genetic conditions that can lead to, you know, persistent high triglycerides, but things like high intake of alcohol, as well as a lot of refined carbohydrate intake can really lead to persistent elevations in triglycerides. And so swapping those things out can lead to substantial improvements in a lot of people. And then as far as lipid lowering therapy goes nowadays, we have lots of options. He still may well tolerate a statin just fine. He may not even need the 20 milligrams of atorvastatin. He may do just fine on like five milligrams of rosuvastatin. Or sometimes when I have patients who are a little bit more sensitive to statins, I might suggest to them trying a different one that is a little bit less well-recognized called pitavastatin, um, that has a lot, uh, of interesting, uh, kind of unique aspects to it and can be better tolerated by some patients. So whether something like five or 10 of rosuvastatin, a couple milligrams of pitavastatin may be an option for him, or if he doesn't want to use a statin at all, I still would not put him on a fibrate and we could go in an entirely different direction, um, with other meds, but, um, addressing the obesity is going to be the main thing. So the combination of lifestyle and if he's a candidate or qualifies or could, um, end up on something like terzepatide would be, uh, an excellent move from a medical management standpoint of this patient's risk. Yeah. Uh, say, say for those medication changes, um, if you were this patient's doctor at the time, he said he wanted to start exercising. Would you have done anything differently? Aside from not ever having put him on the fibrate in the first place, uh, uh, and just the, probably the, the, uh, the statin that he was on, although I tend to use rosuvastatin more than a torvastatin, I think that his exercise program, the way he went about it, if he felt, uh, comfortable, confident, uh, initiating a home exercise program with dumbbells, I think that that's completely fine. So I actually don't fault him for that. Um, again, I didn't get specific details of like what, where did he find this program? What exactly was he doing sets reps? If he jumped into something that was clearly way too much too soon for him, then that's something else that we would have a conversation about. I see a lot of rhabdo in the hospital. And so this is something that I always also have this conversation when I'm getting people, uh, ready to discharge. Um, because a lot of times either they themselves are apprehensive or sometimes it's like their, their partner, their girlfriend, their mom might be in the room and they're like, you know, Oh, you need to be, you know, obviously they're like traumatized by having been hospitalized for this thing. And they're like, can he ever exercise again? So I'm like abundantly explicitly clear. You absolutely can exercise again. You should exercise again, but the way we go about it might need to be smarter. We need to get you, uh, you know, you, it's almost like I have that conversation about, um, when we talk about youth athletic development, like training to train, we need to get you fit enough to be able to train. And, and, and it seems that whatever you did, um, before this, you were not ready to handle that. You were not sufficiently fit to tolerate the training that you tried to do. And so setting you up more, uh, successfully for that would be the goal, um, over, over time in the ensuing weeks after hospitalization. Yeah. You also kind of, uh, alluded to the idea that combining the statin and the fibrate together, perhaps not these two particular ones, although generally speaking might have led or exacerbated or, or made his muscles more, more vulnerable. Um, so the two medications seems to matter. And the question I have for you is, is there any way to really tell the difference between maybe a drug side effect and then the expected CK bump that you'd see in somebody new to exercise? Because, you know, you kind of not hand waved away, but you dismiss like, look, your CK bumps to a thousand, just started working out. Yeah. Not really impressed. Uh, but now that you got two medications on board that could potentially make somebody more vulnerable, are you more vigilant to the rise in CK? Are you more permissive of a CK rise? Something like that? I don't really think so absent the person's like clinical syndrome. In other words, I'm just because I put somebody on medicines like this. And, and so to be clear, you know, when I think of medicines that are more prone, more problematic in this context, that can be things like high doses of Simvastatin, which fortunately like nobody should be using anymore. Um, or Gemfibrozil, I think among the fibrates is one that might be a little bit higher risk than Fenafibrate as the more preferred one. If somebody needs to be on a fibrate these days, and there are other drug interactions that can happen, uh, whether between statins or even non-statin medicines that can impact the muscles. Um, I won't go down that pharmacology, uh, kind of rabbit hole here, here today, but these things can happen, but that doesn't mean that you're routinely monitoring somebody's CK just for the sake of it in, in most situations, even though there's some exceptions, but I'll leave those aside. Um, and so I am not aware of like strong evidence, uh, in this space. I don't know if you, you found something where there is clearly like a different tier of, uh, expected or acceptable CK, uh, deviations in somebody on certain medicines compared with not, I'm much more concerned about their subjective symptom experience because that frames my interpretation of these lab results. Somebody who trains, they're performing well, they're feeling well, they have no complaints. They're like, yeah, everything is going awesome. And somebody just happened to pull a CK and it's like 2,500 or something. I'm still like, that gets a shrug from me. Again, when I'm approaching like 20,000, there are very few situations that I can think of where somebody is at those levels and has no symptoms. But at the same time, I would be curious after somebody does, I don't know, their first high rocks or like an ultra marathon or something like that. Like we're not routinely testing those. If somebody has no symptoms, maybe people do routinely get to those levels and I just don't know it. So what do you think? Well, there is some data showing that CK bumps are kind of expected on, uh, not certainly statins. There's some really good evidence here. We'll talk about the STOMP trial later where they actually had people take either a high dose atorvastatin, 80 milligrams versus placebo and add them to exercise. That's a lot of milligrams. That's right. But their, their CK on average went up about 21 units, for example. Um, yeah, which both were elevated after exercise just was higher in the statin group. Um, another study on lovastatin, which we'll also talk about the CK levels were 75% higher on average, which, you know, depending on what was going on is, is interesting. But I think this actually dovetails nicely into the new guidelines. As we're aware, the 2026 ACC and AHA, uh, lipid management guidelines just came out to replace the ones from 2018 first update in eight years. And for the first time, the new guideline explicitly lists vigorous exercise as a risk factor for statin associated muscle symptoms, kind of this acronym called SAMS. We won't name that later, but if you see that SAMS, that's what it means. That's new. It wasn't in the 2018 version. The entire section on managing statin muscle symptoms is new, which I think was pretty good. But at the same time, that same guideline says that routine CK monitoring in people taking statins who don't have symptoms is not recommended. Now this patient had a CK of nearly 19,000 and was basically asymptomatic at the time of the lab draw. So under the current protocol, that number wouldn't have gotten caught unless somebody happened to order a CK for another reason, which is exactly what happened here. He had these other symptoms and they were like, Hey, we got to get a CK just to, just to check. Um, so the guideline acknowledges the risk, uh, but also says, don't, don't go looking for it. It's not necessarily a contradiction, uh, particularly in this patient. Uh, but you know, there could be false positives, unnecessary costs, unnecessary anxiety. This case does show you what could slip through that gap, though. Maybe he would be fine. So maybe the more interesting question for this particular segment, do you think this patient should have been sent to the ER? Like he was asymptomatic, but his CK was high. You think that automatically buys them a trip to the ER? Yeah. I disagree that he was asymptomatic. He was telling you that he's having muscular, you know, weakness, exertional intolerance, and they had muscle tenderness and swelling on exam. So I don't agree with the premise that he was asymptomatic. And so having symptoms in the context of an 18, 19,000 CK. Yeah. I concur. I stand by the management in this case. Yeah. Had he come in and he had no soreness, but just historical, like a remote history of soreness and whatever. And his urine looked fine, you know, as far as it wasn't dark, you don't, you know, you didn't test for it. Yeah. That's a slightly, slightly more nuanced situation. I would say, um, if, if that was all you got from him, then probably no, I wouldn't have routinely tested for it. However, if I did still have that history where he said, look, I'm doing this exercise and I noticed that I'm like my, I'm not progressing. I'm actually regressing. And I feel myself like weaker than usual for a couple of days after exercise. I still would have checked the CK in that situation. Not necessarily because the, the statin is the only thing on my mind, but, but they, because that is how myopathies can present is like this disproportionate or unexplained weakness or, uh, fatigability, things like that. Um, uh, that would have been, uh, my, my approach to the case. So I would have found it in that situation anyway, with that background history. All right. I like that. All right. Well, so look, the medications were stopped and he recovered. Now the question is what was actually happening at the level of his muscle cells, because understanding the mechanism here, uh, changes the differential. If it were too much exercise itself, you'd expect the symptoms to scale with the training, too much volume and intensity, not enough recovery. The muscle can't keep up. And so if you dial it back, you recover, the person's fine. The muscle itself is healthy. You just asked too much of it. But what's different with this sort of statin induced or medication induced myopathy is that the drug changes the muscles tolerance for work. The training load, this guy took on some dumbbell exercises at home should have been completely manageable, but it wasn't because the drug had exposed a vulnerability in the muscle that was already there or created that vulnerability before he ever picked up weight. When we come back from the break, we'll get into the mechanism of how statins affect muscles, including whether or not they affect performance. You listen to our podcast on nutrition for a while. You know that what I'm about to tell you is no surprise. Eating well is not a willpower problem. It is a setup problem. When there is something healthy and ready to go in my fridge, I'm going to eat it. And when there's not, I end up staring at a cast iron skillet at 8pm and just not doing that. Now that's where factor comes in. These are fully prepared meals designed by dieticians and crafted by chefs, and they're delivered right to your door. I've been leaning on the muscle pro collection because the macros line up well with my training, but they have meals built around whatever your goals are, whether it's weight loss, overall nutrition, more protein, and even GLP-1 support. And the quality is actually there, too. We're talking about lean proteins, colorful vegetables, whole foods, and healthy fats. It's just nutrient-dense food, and it's always fresh, it's never frozen, with over 100 rotating options so that you're not eating the same thing every week. And they're also ready in about two minutes. To get set up and to make sure that your fridge doesn't look like a barren wasteland, head over to factormeals.com slash bbm50off and use code bbm50off to get 50% off and a free daily greens box, if that's something you're into. New subscribers only, while supplies last. See website for more details. That's factormeals.com slash bbm50off. We talk a lot about high-yield strategies in the gym, and I think that same logic should apply to your closet, especially this time of year when the weather starts to shift and you realize half of what you own doesn't work anymore. Last time I mentioned quints, I was talking about their overshirts and their pima cotton tees, but now that San Diego has been heating up, I've been reaching for their linen pieces instead. They've got men's linen pants and shirts made with 100% European linen, and they're lightweight, they're breathable, and they hit that sweet spot between laid back and put together. I look like I care without looking like I'm trying too hard. They also have a line called Flow Knit for active wear. They're moisture wicking, anti-odor, soft enough that you actually want to wear it all day, and I've been using it for training sometimes and just general running around town. Now the reason the prices are 50 to 60% less than what you would see at a high-end mall is that quints works directly with ethical factories and cuts out the middlemen. You're paying for the materials and not the brand markup. Everything they make is designed to last, and they're rated between 4.5 and 5 stars by thousands of people online. Refresh your wardrobe with quints. Go to quints.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365-day returns. They're now available in Canada too. Go to quince.com slash bbm for free shipping and 365-day returns. That's quints.com slash bbm. At Barbell Medicine, you know that we take our recommendations very seriously here. We don't recommend things just because they have a popular logo or they have a big ad budget. We look at the evidence and we look at what works. And the evidence on standard-issue hospital scrubs? Not very good. You're basically wearing something that fits like a repurposed parachute and feels about as pleasant as sandpaper. And that's why we've been partnering with FIGS. For those of us working in healthcare, FIGS makes scrubs and apparel that are actually designed for what we do. They're comfortable, they're lightweight, and they're durable enough for long days and endless wash cycles. They're also antimicrobial, which given the environments that we work in, is not a small thing. And they finally fix the fit. No more boxy, scratchy scrubs that make you look like you're walking around in a cardboard box. FIGS rethought the tailoring completely with tons of styles and colors to choose from. They've also teamed up with New Balance on supportive sneakers. They also make compression socks for those 14-hour shifts where your legs start to feel like lead weights. They also have outerwear for when the hospital decides to turn the ICU into a walk-in freezer. If you want to check them out, FIGS is offering 15% off your first purchase. Just go to wearfigs.com and use the code FIGSRX at checkout. That's wearfigs.com, code FIGSRX at checkout, 15% off. All right, we're back here in the Barbell Medicine podcast. Now, before the break, we were walking through a mystery case where a 43-year-old man ended up in the emergency room with rhabdomyolysis after starting a home dumbbell program. But it was really the combination of medications he was on, particularly the statins and fibrates mixed together, not necessarily as training. So let's get into the mechanism here, specifically on statins and how they affect your muscles and whether they affect your training outcomes at all. Statins work by blocking an enzyme called HMG-CoA reductase. You don't need to remember that name. What matters is what the enzyme does. You can think of it as a factory inside your cells, the main product being cholesterol. If you block this enzyme, the factory slows down, cholesterol production drops, and the liver compensates by pulling more LDL out of the blood and circulating LDL subsequently falls. That's the intended effect, and that's why statins work. The problem is that the factory doesn't only make cholesterol, it also makes a handful of other molecules that the muscle cells depend on. And when you slow the whole factory down, you reduce all of them. So the first mechanism here is that the cell's energy supply gets squeezed. One of the products of the factory is CoQ10, coenzyme Q10. It works inside the mitochondria, the part of the cell that converts food into usable energy, which we call ATP. That's the fuel that your muscles run on. When statin use reduces CoQ10 levels, the cells become less efficient at making energy, and muscle is one of the most energy-hungry tissues in the body. During a hard workout, ATP demand spikes, and if a muscle cell starts with a lower energy ceiling because of reduced CoQ10, the gap between what the cell needs and what it can produce gets wider the harder you push. Now, patients ask about CoQ10 supplements all the time, and the logic makes sense. If the statin depletes it, just take more. But the clinical trials don't really back that up. The evidence doesn't show that supplementing CoQ10 reliably improves statin-related muscle symptoms, and the 2026 guidelines specifically note it's not recommended for this purpose. So I pose the question to you, Dr. Baraki. You get patients asking about CoQ10 for statin side effects probably all the time or in your DMs. The mechanism sounds plausible, but the trial data isn't really there yet. What's your take on CoQ10? Yeah, I just don't really care that much if somebody wants to try taking it. As long as I trust that the supplement they're using is not contaminated, if it has the appropriate labeling on it, it's purified, that's the only ingredient, say it's CGMP certified, you know, it's like, I find it plausible enough. And so if somebody wants to try taking it, and if it helps them be more adherent to the therapy that is more likely to benefit them, who am I to just like tell them, no, don't take it, but then they're going to either lose trust in me or stop taking the medicine that I think is helping them. And so if somebody wants to try taking some CoQ10, and it's from a trusted, or it's like a high quality sort of thing, fine, I'm not routinely recommending that everyone who takes a statin use it, because in fact, most people do fine, especially people who don't know about this as a potential side effect. Most of them do fine and don't end up, you know, reporting any of these side effects. The reporting of side effects tends to increase. There's definitely a component of nocebo there. It is not 100% nocebo, but there's a substantial component of that. If somebody wants to try taking those things, fine. I've seen mechanistic hypothesizing, I've seen anecdotal reports, I've seen, you know, things where people say either coenzyme Q10 or vitamin D levels that normalizing vitamin D levels can help this. Again, it gets a shrug for me if you want to try it, go for it. I would also make sure that the person doesn't have another reason for myopathy. So for example, like thyroid function, making sure their TSH is okay, because hypothyroidism can also contribute to muscle issues that might be also like compounding when we're using multiple things. So, you know, those are some other things that I'd be thinking about in these situations. You know what I'd like to see, despite our, you know, shoulder shrug nature regarding this particular supplement? Creatine. Look, if intracellular energy is the real limiting factor here. Yeah. And, you know, another way to think about this is like, I wonder, you know, if people do have some of these statin-associated muscle symptoms, I find it very plausible that different people can end up having those symptoms by way of different mechanisms, right? And if you lump all of these people with the same nonspecific symptom into a study and you put them all on coenzyme Q10, is it not plausible that that effect, if it is present for some of those, that it might wash out in the overall? It's like, I find that to be a plausible kind of explanation. The second mechanism here is that the muscle cells outer membrane gets fragile. The same factory that makes cholesterol also makes structural molecules. You might hear them called isoprenoids in the literature. Think of them like rebar and concrete. They help hold the cell together. Now, when statin use reduces them, the outer membrane of the muscle cell, the sarcolemma, appears to become more vulnerable to mechanical stress. So during the lowering phase of a lift, the eccentric phase, as it were, where the muscle is producing force while lengthening, the membrane is under a lot of mechanical load. In a healthy cell, it handles that stress and repairs normally, but in a cell whose structural molecules have been depleted, the same load may cause disproportionate damage. Now, this is largely derived from animal and cell culture work, but it does fit the clinical pattern, and it helps explain something important. Statin myopathy appears to depend not just on the drug's dose, but also on the training load. Two patients on the same statin at the same dose can have very different outcomes depending on how hard they're training. The third mechanism, and this is a newer piece of the puzzle because it required some new imaging techniques called cryo-electron microscopy. That recently showed that statins can bind directly to a calcium release channel in the skeletal muscle that's called the ryanodine receptor. Now, here's a short version. Muscle cells keep calcium locked away in a sort of storage compartment and then releases it in a controlled way to trigger muscular contractions. The ryanodine receptor is that gate. When statins bind to it, the gate becomes leaky and calcium seeps into the cell when it shouldn't. Now, excess calcium inside a muscle cell is a problem. It activates enzymes that break down proteins. It generates damaging molecules called reactive oxygen species, or ROS, and if the cell can't pump the calcium back out fast enough, which requires energy it may already be short on, the damage can compound. So the patient is sort of in this tug of war. Training is trying to build muscle, but the drug is accelerating muscle protein breakdown. The net effect can be that the strength goes down, muscle damage increases, and so does the CK. It goes up. Now, if these mechanisms affect everyone on a statin, why doesn't everyone get myopathy? And that's an interesting question. These biochemical changes, some degree of CoQ10 reduction, some degree of membrane vulnerability, probably do happen in most people taking statins. But for the vast majority, the body compensates. That backup energy pathways, backup repair mechanisms, and the magnitude of effect at a typical dose just isn't enough to cause symptoms. What does tip people over the edge is the combination of factors. Genetics, for example. Some people carry variants that make the ryanodine receptor more prone to leaking. There's a liver transporter gene that reduces how efficiently the body clears the statin, so you get higher levels of statin in the blood. Older age, female sex, kidney disease, thyroid problems, drug-drug interactions, and relevant to our patient, exercise. All piled on top of that genetic baseline. So the short answer here, the mechanism is probably always running at a low level, but it takes a specific combination of dose, genetics, and stress to push it past the threshold where it causes real damage. One more quick little factoid on this, and I think it's a good one for the nocebo conversation you alluded to. You've referenced this before, this 2018 study that looked at the number of websites in different countries that discuss statin side effects and compared that to the reported statin intolerance rate. The correlation was super strong. Countries with more online content about side effects had a higher reported intolerance to statins. And in the ASCOT trial, muscle symptoms occurred at the same rate on statins versus placebo during the blinded phase of the study. It was only during the open label extension when patients knew that they were taking a statin that reports jumped by about 41%, which to me is wild. There's an even more elegant trial called SAMSON where 60 patients who previously quit statins because of side effects were given 12 months of randomized blinded treatment. During four months, they got a statin. Another four months, they got placebo, and four months of nothing. They tracked symptoms daily on a phone app. The result? About 90% of the symptom burden people attributed to statins occurred equally when they were taking the placebo. Statin months and placebo months were virtually identical. But both were no worse than the no tablet months where they were taking nothing. And that tells you that the act of taking a pill, any pill, was driving most of the symptoms. And here's the kicker, at least to me. After seeing their own data, half of these patients who'd sworn off statins successfully restarted them. Yeah. None of this means the statin myopathy isn't real. It does appear to be a real thing that people experience. We just spent the last 10 minutes explaining the mechanisms and there's something there. The point is that the reported rates are inflated by expectation or at least influenced by expectation. And the true pharmacological rate, meaning the excess above what placebo causes, is estimated to be between 1% to 5% in controlled trials. Pretty low. But you might see other numbers if you do your own research. And I think that has to do with terminology. We've kind of used a number of terms interchangeably, but they're not. And this is problematic also in the research. So myalgia, for example, is just muscle pain, but no real CK elevation. Myositis is muscle pain with a CK elevation, meaning that there's measurable muscle damage. And myopathy is a broader umbrella term that covers the whole spectrum with rhabdomyolysis is being on the severe end where CK is extremely elevated and the kidneys are at risk, the heart's at risk, your risk of compartment syndrome goes up, etc. But these terms, again, get used interchangeably. We've been lazy about it here. We should do better. Our call to action is to do better maybe. But if you define the outcome as any muscle symptom at all, including like a vague aching with no CK elevation, you might get a rate as high as 25% with relationship to using statins. But if you restrict it to objectively confirmed muscle damage with CK elevation, the number drops to below 5%. And if you're just looking at rhabdomyolysis alone with kidney involvement, it's less than 0.1%. So Austin, how much detail about myositis, myalgia, and rhabdomyolysis risk you go into with patients who may be starting a statin or even combination therapy? Yeah, certainly not into great detail with those most rare scenarios of like a much less than 0.1% level risk. Because presumably, as part of their comprehensive assessment, their cardiovascular risk is likely to be much, much higher than that. And so that's a situation where that potential benefit versus that potential risk is clearly favorable. As far as the other symptoms go, it kind of is something that at this point in my career, when I'm doing this, I'm kind of feeling out the person as part of our conversation. What's the level of comfort versus apprehension with these medicines, sometimes they might ask about the risk of certain side effects. And then that'll just kind of evolve into a conversation somewhat more naturally. Sometimes I'll even explain that the more side effects that people tend to get warned about, the more they are likely to experience them. And so sometimes if the person is apprehensive about that, I might say, how about, you know, if you're willing to give this a try for a couple of weeks, then you can let me know if you experience anything. But a lot of times people have already done some degree of research or reading, or they might already be familiar with some of those side effects. And they asked me specifically about them, in which case I'll have a conversation, kind of a simplified version of a lot of the discussion that we just had. And then also I point out that, look, I tend to be, unless we're in an ultra high risk situation, I tend to be pretty conservative in terms of using low dose combination therapy much more often, like the low, like the suvastatin 5 or 10 combined with an azetamide 10. As an example, compared with cranking people up to maximum doses of single agents, just because I know that, hey, we're getting the biggest bang for our buck in terms of benefits and mitigating the risk of side effects in that situation to make it feel like I'm on their side, because I am. In this journey, we're trying to find a workable solution for them. And it's interesting, you know, you laid out a lot of these mechanisms, and there's truly a lot of variability in what people experience. But that's kind of the case for every medicine, right? You put 10 people on a blood pressure medicine, you're going to get 10 different degrees of blood pressure lowering. I put hundreds of people on GLP-1 receptor agonists, and I see some people with a lot more nausea, some people with less, some people with more reflux, some people with less constipation, more or less, some none. Some go in the other direction and have some diarrhea. Again, most have none. I think that there's just such complexity and variability. And our tools, as advanced as they are these days, it still is a relatively crude, you know, option just to put a large group of biologically variable organisms on this one thing. And then you're going to see some divergent responses. I wonder, and maybe this is a premature hot take, but I think it would be great one day once we have cheap generic $5 oral PCSK9 inhibitors instead of statins, because they work via such a fundamentally different mechanism. PCSK9 inhibitors accelerate clearance of LDL particles from the blood, whereas statins interfere more with the production side of things in the liver, leading to then subsequent clearance. And so I think that it seems to me that we observe less of these kind of off target effects. There's not really any of this kind of muscular phenomenon that we observe on PCSK9 inhibitors. And so just purely acting on the clearance side of the equation seems to me the more sensible way to go. It's just that access to those medicines is a lot tougher still at this point in time, even as prices gradually come down. So I wonder if, you know, fast forward to the distant future, if we have those options and they're much more prevalent, and then maybe gradually statins will start to actually decline in use, they're here to stay for a long time because they're cheap, generic, and effective for their intended use in the vast majority of situations. But I do think that this is going to be an evolving space in the coming, I'll call it decades. Yeah. Yeah. Watch this space. One thing I wanted to investigate, which I hadn't seen adequately addressed anywhere else, was the effect of statins on training outcomes. Like, has anybody run a trial? Like, you get a placebo, you get a statin, let's have you guys both train and see what happens. Turns out, there's been a few studies. More admittedly, when it comes to aerobic exercise, endurance exercise compared to resistance training, which is the case, unfortunately, in America. Dr. Cooper, just like you get to that. But anyway, so this comes up a lot. The best data we have is from the STOMP trial, great acronym, the effect of statins on skeletal muscle function and performance. STOMP, we love it. They took 420 healthy statin naive people and randomized them to get either high dose atorvastatin, 80 milligrams versus placebo for six months on a standardized resistance training program. There was no significant difference in the amount of muscular strength they gained. Both groups got stronger or muscle size or exercise capacity between the two groups. CK, creatine kinase, did go up on average about 21 units more in the group that was getting atorvastatin. But honestly, for that dose, that's pretty impressive. I would have expected more, you know, if any finding at all. But yeah, that was pretty, pretty reasonable to me. Um, additional data shows that statins amplify the CK response to exercise potentially even higher. Uh, lovastatin we talked about, uh, had an average of a 75% increase higher, a CK level at 24 and 48 hours after resistance training compared to placebo. So that could be a signal there if you're starting somebody on that at a high dose. Now, again, I alluded to this, but there's more data on endurance. And this is where things get genuinely interesting to me. We could have had a whole podcast on just like what the heck is going on with statins and, you know, gaining cardiorespiratory fitness. However, here's my take on it. We have limited evidence that statins, especially at higher doses, may reduce baseline muscle oxidative capacity and potentially blunt or reduce the aerobic fitness gains that people get from training. There's one study from 2013 in particular that showed this, whereas some other studies that tried to replicate that didn't find that. So the data is mixed, does appear to be dose dependent. And again, all from mostly small studies, unfortunately, what we do know from meta analyses and larger, uh, studies is that the combination of statin therapy and exercise produces better survival than either alone and cardiorespiratory fitness still improves. So it's not like it's blunting it entirely if it has any effect at all. So to me, the clinical takeaway here hasn't changed. You should train, take a medication if it's indicated and work with your doctor to find the lowest dose that gets you to target here. But it is worth knowing that the interaction exists because it's another reason to optimize dosing rather than just defaulting to the maximum. So the picture that's emerging here is that statins don't meaningfully impair training in the average user, but in the subset of susceptible people, and our patient was clearly in that subset, the combination of drug exposure, genetics, and in this case, training stress crossed a threshold where the damage was real and measurable. And since we're talking about muscles, medications, and metabolic syndrome, three of my favorite Ms, there's one more thing to watch in the space, and it is terzepatide. You, uh, mentioned this earlier. This is that dual GIP-GLP-1 receptor agonist that most people know, um, as either Manjaro or Zeppown. It's generating some interesting cardiovascular data. So in addition to its metabolic effects, clinical trials have shown that it can lower triglycerides by about 25 to 30% and reduce apolipoprotein B, APOB, which is the protein that rides around on cholesterol particles and builds plaque. APOB reduction is a meaningful signal because it tracks closely with cardiovascular risk. A trial called T-PLAQ is currently looking at whether terzepatide directly slows coronary plaque progression and the early results are promising. The 2026 guidelines mentioned terzepatide and semaglutide in the context of weight management with secondary lipid benefits. So like use it to, uh, lose weight or your, as you mentioned, reduce this sort of, uh, address the root cause of what's going on here, but also you get these, uh, lipid benefits on top of that, but they're not yet positioned as a sort of primary lipid lowering drugs like statins, for example. But for patients who have overlapping metabolic, cardiovascular, and kidney risk, what the guidelines now call CKM syndrome, cardiovascular, kidney metabolic syndrome, this drug class may eventually become another tool. So Austin, I think I know the answer to this already, but I want you to drive it home. What do you think about combining GLP-1s with statins and lifestyle interventions to optimize someone's health relating to CKM syndrome? I think it is an ultra potent strategy. Uh, and so it is very strongly recommended for, uh, you know, when used appropriately and in, in, in the right patient. Um, it's honestly a pretty remarkable time to be alive with these conditions. And certainly if you're trying to, to prevent them, if you're, you're eligible or if you have access to these medicines, the use of trisepatide and certainly, you know, the, the ones that we're expecting to, to come down the pipe in the, in the coming year or two that are, that are actually one literally just got approved within the past couple of days, the next oral, um, agent. Terrible name by the way. Yeah, I agree. Um, and then as I'm, as, as I mentioned the, uh, the use of statins judiciously and, and dosed properly and when appropriate, or if somebody has access to the more potent therapies like a PCSK9 inhibitor also when appropriate, or certainly just when they become more accessible in the future might even augment things further. So I think the incentives are there for these, uh, companies to generate effective treatments, right? So cardiovascular disease, leading cause of death in the world, obesity and its downstream complications, super prevalent. Um, they're clearly figuring these pathways out. They are, uh, competing with one another to generate ever, uh, more potent, more effective, safer, more well-tolerated agents. And that's just, I think, uh, I guess if, if, if you want to complain about capitalism, you, you certainly have a lot of reasons that you, that you could, uh, but this seems to be one of the more favorable results that is emerging from that, uh, that system of competition. Yeah, I agree. All right. Well, we've laid out the mechanism now who's most at risk and what's the one test that separates a drug problem from a programming problem. So statin related muscle problems can sit on spectrum. We talked about this at the mild end is myalgia, this sort of aching and soreness without any creatine kinase or CK elevation in the middle would be myositis pain in the muscles with a measurable muscle damage as that means that CK is elevated. And at the severe end, we got rhabdomyolysis, you know, massive CK spike, potential kidney injury, uh, potential arrhythmias, things like that. So the early stages look identical for people who are new to exercise, you know, just, just delayed onset muscle soreness, or is it something else here? And we need to keep making this point. Real drug caused statin myopathy is incredibly uncommon, all things considered. In controlled trials where patients don't know whether they were on a drug or placebo, the excess rate of muscle symptoms, like we said, is roughly one to 5%. A meaningful portion of what patients report appears to be driven by expectation. The nocebo effect that we've talked about. Yeah. To your point for the better part of a decade, but uncommon doesn't mean zero. And in certain subgroups, the risk is meaningfully higher. Uh, again, the 2026 guidelines list vigorous exercise as a risk factor for statin related muscle symptoms. Uh, to my knowledge, this is the first time it's ever appeared as a risk factor on any of these guidelines, which I think is, look, if they're going to put it as a risk factor, I have high hopes that when the American Heart Association's newest guidelines on resistance training after, you know, acute coronary syndrome or with heart disease or whatever, they're going to take some steps here and put more stuff about exercise in there. That might turn out to be unfounded, but we'll, we'll see. But here are the other risk factors that the guidelines call out, uh, versus drug combinations. So in this case, statin plus a fibrate, which is exactly what our patient was on. Uh, you'd mentioned that gem fibrozil carries the highest risk, uh, mainly because of how it directly competes with statin metabolism in the liver. Um, so statin levels in the blood become much, much higher. So phenofibrate would be preferred if you need both. Uh, but it's still not risk-free a statin type. Um, you've talked about this a bunch fat soluble statins like a torvastatin and simvastatin tend to cause more muscle problems than the water soluble ones like pravastatin or resuvastatin. Uh, in one review, simvastatin accounted for 55 of 112 rhabdomyolysis cases. You see why I had that hot take of nobody should be on simvastatin on earth anymore. I just know that somebody's listening to this who has been on simvastatin for like 20 years and they're like, what do you mean? You're just calling my doctor an idiot? I'm like, well, no, just they're busy. And you know, if you're doing fine, you're doing fine. And they're probably old. It's like when I see anybody on simvastatin and atenolol, I'm like, your doctor's old. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's, that's true. That is a hot take. All right. Uh, other drug interactions like antibiotics, antifungals, calcium channel blockers, and even grapefruit juice can all raise circulating statin levels by interfering with the enzyme that clears the drug from the body and the liver. Uh, demographics are contributory here. Older age, particularly over the age of 65, female sex, both appear to increase risk based on observational data. Although it is interesting, uh, rabid my license cases, just generally speaking, uh, much more prevalent in men. And I, it's not all men, but it's always a man like just maybe in this particular setting. Got a bench, you know, do got a bench. Um, genetics talk about this. Oh, I did put this in my notes. The liver transporter gene that I was trying to recall is S L C O 1 B 1. Did you ever hear about that? Uh, probably come across it at some point, but I don't quote a lot of genetics in my day to day practice. Yeah. A twod, uh, that is a specific variant that reduces statin clearance and raises blood levels. It's like, I guess, constantly drinking grapefruit juice or something like that. Um, you can get genetic testing for this, but it's quite expensive as I apparently looked up earlier. Uh, other medical conditions, hypothyroidism, kidney disease, liver disease, and both very high and very low BMI are all listed. Um, there's also this very rare autoimmune variant that you had talked about twice now. In rare cases, statins can actually trigger the immune system to produce antibodies against the enzyme that the statin targets. Uh, at that point, the immune system is attacking the muscle independently of the drug. And a 2024 case report describes a patient whose CK was over 80,000. Mm-hmm. And it didn't come down after stopping the statin. It only improved after IV steroids. Uh, if CK stays elevated after the drug is stopped, this would be something that would be on your radar, which would have changed your differential, I think. Exactly. Yeah. That was one of the things I mentioned is if there's, if this patient's CK did not improve, uh, all the way back down to normal, then I'd be much more concerned for some sort of immune inflammatory process. And yeah, I've only, I've seen this very infrequently. This is known as the, um, statin-induced or autoimmune necrotizing myopathy. And the more interesting thing you did, you said it was antibodies against that HMG-CoA reductase. Um, it is actually not true that it can only be triggered by statins. There are some very, very, very, very unlucky people who will spontaneously develop antibodies against that enzyme and they will develop this condition even having never taken a statin. So it's just like the worst luck on earth. Are you sure it's not the seed oils or the soy or? Yeah. So it's rough, um, very, very, uh, terrible condition. Um, if somebody develops it, although again, it is quite uncommon and requires the long-term immunosuppression, unfortunately. All right. All right. Well, Dr. Baraki, here's what I want to get your take on. Given everything that we've talked about so far, if a patient on a statin comes to you and says, look, my strength is going down, got persistent soreness, what do you do? Yeah. I'm going to take a kind of a thorough history as we did in this case, review the rest of their medicines, review the rest of their supplements, get a sense of, uh, which statin they're on and the dose, how strongly I feel that they need to be on that particular statin at that particular dose, potentially do some dose adjustments. Um, if I'm concerned that there are drug interactions, address those potentially switch them to a different statin or again, low dose combination, um, and talk about other strategies for mitigating their cardiovascular risk as well as assessing their training. And is it a good fit for their level of fitness? Those would be some of the places where I would start if they felt strongly and they wanted to try things like we mentioned, if they wanted to try taking coenzyme Q, or if they wanted to try taking vitamin D, I'm not going to stop them. Although those aren't necessarily like the first line things that I'm immediately jumping to, um, in these situations. I noticed you didn't immediately say stop the statin for sure. Stop exercising for sure. It's more about, let's see if we can suss this out. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Neither, neither of those are appropriate immediate first steps. Um, unless somebody is again in actual rhabdomyolysis and in the ER, uh, then, uh, you're generally going to be okay to continue in some form of treatment and continue activity in some form. It might just need to be a dose adjusted on both fronts. Yeah. Well said. All right. Well, let's close this out with what happened to the patient and what to do if this is you, uh, after discharge, the statin fibrate combination was off the table going forward. He was put on, um, uh, health promoting diet cause and referred to our how to eat healthy article and also fish oil and continued on a statin, but no fibrate. Um, quick aside on the fish oil, because we've done a full episode on this fish oil, specifically the omega three fatty acids, EPA and DHA do lower triglycerides by roughly 15% at the standard supplement doses. Now, whether that's useful to you or not, and where that 15% comes from is depending on how high your triglycerides were in the first place. Um, that's helpful, but for patients who need serious triglyceride reduction, like the patient discussed here over the counter official usually isn't enough. Um, and so I refer you to the reduce it trial. They used a high dose prescription form, which is this sort of synthetic version of official that seems to work a little bit better. And at four grams a day, they saw a 25% reduction in cardiovascular events. Uh, the synthetic purified EPA forms are what the data supports most strongly for cardiovascular outcomes. Also, they tend to be the purest form, uh, as it were, uh, standard fish oil supplementation, while it does lower triglycerides modestly, hasn't shown the same robust benefit for reducing heart attacks and strokes in people who don't already have a high cardiovascular disease risk. So we still recommend trying to eat fish at least once to twice a week for the overall package of benefits from the food, the sort of food matrix effect. If you're eating more fish, you're eating less of whatever else it's displacing. And honestly, uh, the people who do eat fish on a regular basis tend to have a healthier dietary pattern overall. But if you need to take something like fish oil, uh, probably the prescription one would be the one we'd recommend over something over the counter. Um, and for this particular patient at the two day follow-up after he was discharged, his CK and liver associated enzymes were still elevated, but trending in the right direction. One month later, his CK and transaminases were normal. Lipids were also improved. His total cholesterol was 238. Triglycerides were 216. So still above target, but moving. He was asymptomatic at this time, exercising regularly with no reoccurrence and he'd quit smoking. The formal diagnosis here was drug induced myositis, meaning that the medication tended to be the primary cause of the muscle damage. So what are the 2026 guidelines change for a patient like this? So for a patient who develops statin related muscle problems that can't reach their LDL target, uh, on a tolerable statin dose, the guidelines do lay out a clear escalation. Hopefully that tool that you'd mentioned is update, updated soon. Uh, first line options include reducing the statin dose, like you'd mentioned, and adding a non-statin drug like bempidoic acid, ezetimibe, or a PCSK9 inhibitor. Uh, do you use the bempidoic acid, uh, frequently or no? I've not had a need to use it just yet. I am open to those opportunities should they arise, but, um, I've had, uh, other ways to achieve the targets for, for patients without having to go to that just yet. Okay. Uh, well it does work and it blocks a different enzyme in the same cholesterol production pathway, but it's upstream of where statins work. The key difference here is that it's a, it's called a pro drug, which means that it's inactive when you swallow it and only gets activated by an enzyme in the liver and the muscle cells don't have that activating enzyme. So the drug doesn't really turn on there. And in trials, bempidoic acid is shown to significantly lower the rates of muscle side effects compared to statins, which could be useful for a patient like this. Uh, this plus ezetimibe might be a plan for this guy, uh, without the same muscle risk. Um, the guidelines also recommend measuring something called LP little a, which we've talked about before. How many years ago was that now? Almost three. I think that you first brought this up and we actually did a podcast episode on it and an article. Were we ahead of the curve or is it just that the Europeans were ahead and then we were subsequently ahead of the American guidelines? Yeah. I mean, it seems like we've been ahead of the guidelines for a little while now, so glad they're coming around. Yeah. Yes. So, um, again, the goal is the LDL target. There are other options. Like we said, bempidoic acid, azetamide, PCSK9 inhibitors, a newer injectable called incliceran. Um, the specific drug is negotiable, but again, the LDL target is what it is. So for physicians, uh, when you prescribe a statin and you counsel folks on exercise, those two prescriptions can interact at the level of the muscle. Most patients tolerate both just fine. All right, Austin, I'm going to suggest something here. I think maybe we should be getting a baseline CK on patients who exercise regularly before they start on a statin. Now I know the guidelines say don't do routine CK monitoring. And I do get that for people who aren't exercising, but for somebody who actively trains, I might want to know where their CK normally runs like in between training sessions. Obviously it's going to vary, but that way, if they come back with symptoms, I actually have something to compare it against. Does that strike you as totally unreasonable? Am I, am I crazy here? Uh, I don't think it's totally unreasonable. I think that one of the things that's cool about being a doctor is you can do stuff if you feel like it is appropriate. And so like in your clinic, uh, if you wanted to do that with your patients prior to initiating them, you could, um, I in mine do not routinely do that. And, and part of the reason why is just because I have somebody who is habitually exercising does not necessarily mean that if I draw a CK on them, that it is going to be a quote unquote baseline just because it's always going to be fluctuating. Not unlike checking somebody's testosterone level. It is always either on the way up or on the way down, depending on the time of day, it's not a steady state thing. So most people, even who are physically active do not just live with, Oh, this person just lives at a CK of 800 all the time. Um, it's probably relative to their last workout either again on the way up or on the way down. And I don't really know what to, what to make of that. Um, and so I don't, I don't routinely do it if you felt like it was helpful for your decision-making and, uh, you know, go for it. Yeah. All right. Now for patients and lifters listening to this podcast, if you're on a statin and you train, none of what we've discussed here is a reason to stop doing either one, especially without talking to your doctor. Statins reduce cardiovascular events, exercise reduces all cause mortality and benefits basically every organ system in the body. Both are worth keeping, but if you develop muscle pain, weakness or dark urine, that doesn't really track with your training, or even if it does track with your training and you've got dark urine, talk to your doctor urgently in that case. And if it turns out that you do have a statin intolerance, that is not the end of the road. The goal is the LDL target, not necessarily the specific drug. And there are more ways to get there now more than there have ever been. Yeah. I think it's fair if you don't know how to interpret your own urine situation, which I feel, you know, grateful that I can do that for myself. But, um, if I didn't have that training, yeah, I'd be seeking out some help. All right. Five takeaways here. One statin myopathy is real, but relatively uncommon. The excess symptom rate above placebo and controlled trials is roughly one to 5%, but in exercising patients, especially those on combination therapy, the risk can be higher. Two, there are three proposed mechanisms. One has to do with reduced energy production from CoQ10 depletion. Two has to do with compromised muscle cell membranes from loss of structural molecules. And three, there can be some accelerated protein breakdown. Exercise also amplifies all three, though the vast majority of people can compensate for these changes. Of note, CoQ10 supplementation gets a shoulder shrug from us. Three, if you're on a statin and your strength is going down, talk to your doctor before stopping the medication or changing your training. You can get more testing like a CK test, which could be helpful at separating a drug problem from a programming problem. Four, the 2026 guidelines list vigorous exercise as a risk factor for statin associated muscle symptoms for the first time. They also give statin intolerant patients a clear escalation pathway, bempinoic acid, azetamide, PCSK9 inhibitors, and so on. There are options here. Five, lower is better for LDL. There's a 33% relative reduction in cardiovascular events at less than 55 versus 70 in the latest trial. Again, lower for longer is better. Healthy lifestyle changes and getting on effective lipid lowering therapy, if needed, are some of the best things you can do for cardiovascular risk. All right, that's a wrap. Leave us a five-star rating and a review. It's the best thing you can do so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. That's Dr. Austin Baraki. We'll catch you next week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We'll see you next week.