 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we have a very special guest, Anne Sophie Flurry. Now, Anne Sophie is a neuroscientist who's worked in both industry and academia over the last 12 years. She has a master's of research in experimental neuroscience and has published papers relating to the vestibular system, that's the sensory system, in your inner ear, plays a crucial role in balance and spatial awareness, as well as in Parkinson's disease. More recently, she started the company Brainwave, where she runs mental fitness and performance workshops for companies. And in this podcast, we're going to leverage her expertise and talk about some mental strategies to improve your life and your workouts. Specifically, we're going to talk about meditation, visualization, and how to develop mental resilience. Anne Sophie, welcome to the show. Hi, thank you so much for having me. Did I miss anything about your background? I like to lay out the CV, you know, the pertinent. Yeah, no, you actually added some things that I'd forgotten about. The papers I published, which was years ago when I was doing my master's and in the early stages of my PhD, which I discontinued, I totally forgot about those. We did some really strange experiments. They're putting water into your ear. I saw, I read that. Yeah, I read that. Yeah, like my friend mentioned it the other day, he was like, I was reading your paper and you put water into the ear to make people feel dizzy. And I'm like, did I? That seems like a long time ago. No, your master's research looked far more interesting than mine. Mine was on the anatomical presence of a specific muscle, this vastus medialis obliquus. It's supposed to be this muscle at the distal end of your vastus medialis, part of your quadriceps. Anyway, have you heard of the AAA? Most people think that's an insurance company, but it's actually an anatomical society in America. And I'm a proud card carrying member of that group, which I think if people were like, is he a nerd or nah? And I am, I'm a nerd trapping this Chad body and I don't know what to do about it. I feel like similar. I feel like I'm a similar kind of person. Like I didn't get on with anyone from my study. Like I think that's why I quit my PhD is like I couldn't relate to anyone. Yeah, I don't belong here. Yeah. No, but then a lot of my friends were like creatives, but then I also couldn't relate to it. I'm a creative person, but then I didn't fit into those industries at all either. I'm like, I just. Yeah, you're too, too, too diverse for the system. Nice. Well, we're super, I'm super excited to have you. Obviously, we've known each other for a while and I've been wanting to get you on the podcast. And so finally, schedules aligned just for our listeners. So I think we covered your CV, but what are you up to these days? Is it primarily with Brainwave or you like doing other stuff in industry or academia or both? Yeah, so I left my corporate position. I was a chief science officer of a sleep app after having worked on a variety of meditation and mental fitness apps. And now I set up Brainwave, which is I basically I was doing a lot of workshops for our B2B partners from these apps when we were trying to sell our apps to different companies the same way that they do for calm and headspace. That's why everybody gets their free subscriptions. Similar similar kind of thing or selling to insurances. And I just realized that when I'm doing workshops with people in the room, it's just so it's so much better to give tailored advice because the advice you can give to somebody on an app is always going to be quite limited. And another thing that I found was that you can you can access a lot of people through apps, but eventually I started with these early stage startups and we would grow to a certain level when things then just became about retention rates and numbers and, you know, making money and like it's just it's just not it's just not where my interest is. So I set up Brainwave and I go to companies. I go to people. I host workshops. I do talks and that's it's like just picking the best part of my old job and just trying to do that full time. Yeah, no, I love that as like a science professional health care professional like any sort of, you know, we are focused on how people are doing and getting better. It's really difficult to get motivated about like turn rate, you know, like or exactly. Yes. So in any case, all right, well, let's top right into this. We're going to start talking about meditation and I don't want to. I want to speak incorrectly. So what exactly is meditation? I think the easiest way to address this is to talk first about what meditation isn't because I think there's a lot of misconceptions. Meditation is not emptying your brain or emptying your mind. It's not strictly a spiritual practice, even though it does have its roots in many traditions. It's not transcending space and time, achieving Nirvana. I think some people have that image. It's not sitting in your yoga gear on a cushion, incomplete stillness and silence. What it is is quite simply just a mental practice of training your attention and your awareness. So it usually involves focusing on an anchor. That anchor can be something like your breath. So just focusing on your breathing, focusing on every inhale, every exhale. Sound quite boring, but it's actually very difficult. You can focus on a sound so you can meditate to music, like listening to a piece of music, for example, or like a gong sound. You can focus on a mantra that you repeat to yourself. You can focus on different sensations that are happening in your body. You can even focus on cultivating a particular state of mind or a kind of feeling. And I guess there's just there's so many different ways to meditate. It's really just about placing your attention where you want it to be on this specific anchor. And whenever you get distracted, which will happen because it's the nature of the mind, you're going to get distracted. Your mind is going to wander and try to do more productive things or think about thoughts or feelings that you might have. It's just about noticing when you're distracted and bringing your awareness back to that original anchor and setting that intention. And another core factor here is when you get distracted, which you will, it's about not judging that you're getting distracted. So it's a skill to learn just like learning a new language or an instrument. It requires a lot of practice. It requires a lot of attention, a lot of focus and not judging yourself when you mess up because any new skill you're going to mess up. Totally. Yeah. No, the way I've understood it classically is like a conscious exercise and like a intentional focus towards some either sensorium or thought or like whatever it is. And basically you're training your ability to quote, bring it back. You know, should you, should you get diverted based on a sound that you weren't expecting or a thought, an intrusive thought or series of thoughts? Yeah, it's interesting. I don't really talk about meditation and like, you know, when I'm advising people on things to do, for example, but I do talk about being distracted quite frequently. And you talk about like everybody talks about focus and it's just being focused. Yeah. And it's a way to train being focused because you can, anybody can tell you, you know, you need to focus on your work. You need to focus on your training. You need to focus on whatever, but something. Sometimes people don't have the skill to focus and in focusing on something as mundane as your breathing, which is something that the body does automatically. You don't need attention on your breath in order to breathe. Otherwise you would die. You're right. Something that happens in the, in the body automatically. So when you place your attention on something that the body does automatically, your brain wants to wander. Your brain wants to do something more productive. Think about what am I going to have for dinner later? I need to have this conversation with my boss. I still need, there's a hundred things that I need to take off my to-do list. But that's, I think that's why it's such a good way to train your focus because especially when you're focusing on something that mundane, you have a lot of those distractions and you can bring yourself back. Yeah. No, I like that. Um, I've been doing some digging for this podcast. I kind of was curious, like how many people, you know, are engaging in meditation, at least what they think is meditation. Um, and I found some interesting data, you know, with respect to American adults, it's like one in five American adults, that's 60 million people report using meditative practices in the past year. That's interestingly about the same number of American adults who meet the current physical activity guidelines. Is that a coincidence or not? Unclear. Uh, but based on your experience, what are the main reasons that people become interested in and ultimately start participating in meditation? I'm sure you've heard a number of stories from people who tend to workshops and people you've worked with. Like, why do people start meditating? What's the, what's the motivation here? Yeah. I think the best data that I can pull, um, is from my work on meditation apps, specifically, I started working on meditation apps, uh, right after the pandemic, which is when a lot of VCs, uh, and investors were investing in mental fitness meditation apps because, you know, we're, everybody was lonely, mental health crisis, no community. Um, and so we were developing a lot of apps and as part of my work on the scientific side to make sure that the, the meditations that we're delivering or the workshops that we're delivering through the apps are scientifically backed. I, um, I looked at a lot of this research. First of all, on what meditations are good and what are they good for? But then also on our competitors and there were so many competitors popping up around that time. And what we found is that a lot of apps that started as strictly meditation apps eventually pivoted to sleep apps because they looked at the data. And when you open the app, a lot of the time people will click on why I need to meditate because I have sleep issues. So if we had followed the data, we would also have turned into a sleep app. But the reason is not, I think that people are necessarily looking for meditation to help with their sleep. It's that sleep is one of the first symptoms that there's anything wrong with you on a psychological level. Um, poor sleep. You can find that with, with anything with depression, anxiety, loneliness. Um, and not only that, but also it's very. Okay. To talk about your lack of sleep in a social setting, no matter who you're with. It's, it's less, um, it's more taboo to talk about, you know, I'm, depressed, I'm feeling depressed. I'm feeling lonely. Yep. Um, so my, my guess from, from being in industry in that way is that a lot of people are looking to solve their sleep first and foremost with meditation, which I think is very misguided because meditation, uh, is marketed as this, uh, relaxation technique. And it's not necessarily going to relax you, especially if you're beginning, uh, because it's a new skill and any, that you try to practice a new skill, you're going to, you're going to make mistakes. You're going to be frustrated. Um, it's going to take time. So if you go into meditation thinking that immediately you're going to feel relaxed, you, you know, you might, you might be shocked to find out that that's not what's going to happen. Yeah. You just got a little, literally a mental workout at with some, yeah, you, for the first time, you're really realizing just how distracted your mind is or just how, you know, obliqu, obliqu, that's, that's the wrong word. Yeah, I like it. Just think your thoughts are. Um, but yeah, I would say a lot of people will come to meditation for, for help with sleep, for help with, um, relaxation, stress relief, anxiety, um, any sort of mental health support, I would say. I think, I think less people come to it from a place of wanting to focus even though, and we'll get into this later. I think focus is one of the strongest, um, reasons to, to meditate in the literature. But I think people, everybody wants to focus better. Everybody wants to have better memory and focus, but I don't think that people actually want to train their memory and focus. I mean, yeah, I mean, similar parallels with respect to various aspects of physical performance and such. Um, yeah, no, that's a perfect segue though. You know, I wanted to start, uh, when discussing meditation, not only what is it and why do people seek it out, but you know, what sort of legitimate health benefits are there based on existing data? And it sounds like from what you're saying that it's mostly for maybe like a intentional focus on a particular task, duty, creative process, something like that. Um, so maybe start there and then we can, uh, answer the sleep question because I don't know how big that market is, you know, for these apps, I assume millions, if not billions of dollars. And so maybe we can, uh, address that at the end here. Yeah. So in preparation for this podcast, I just off the top of my head sat down for a few minutes and I made a list of all of the things that I remember from like studies that I've, that I've looked at, uh, where they say meditation helps with so and so. So I'm going to read a few of them. Okay. So we have meditation helps with creativity, loneliness, uh, increasing your feelings of trust, reduced anxiety, helps with feelings of depression, reduced stress, and therefore also improvements in health related conditions that are impacted by stress. So like IBS, PTSD, fibromyalgia, um, it improves self image, cardiovascular health, uh, gives people a positive outlook on life as measured by, uh, no, aging as measured by telomere length, improved memory, improved friendships and relationships, less emotional reactivity, more compassion, helps with food cravings, helps with addictions, helps with sleep, helps with pain management and reduces blood pressure. So, yeah. So basically everything like that. Yeah. This is what, like I've, I've seen it all. I've seen, I've seen so many papers, uh, published and an interesting one was the feelings of trust because, uh, part of meditation is feeling more connected to yourself and therefore depending on the meditation that you do also more connected to the world at large and feeling connected to other people and individuals and, you know, the world and that indirectly that then helps you feel less lonely, but also gives you more trust in other people. So there's some, you know, some of these, some of these claims are like quite abstract. Um, some of them make a little bit more sense. Um, there was a, a big meta analysis that came out in 2018. Uh, it was called mind the gap. If I remember, remember this paper. Yeah. Yeah. From Van Damme and colleagues. Not Sean Claude to be, to be clear, not, not the, not the actor. Got it. Um, but what they, what they found and some of these, the people who participated on this paper are mindfulness researchers and they are part of the reason why, um, you know, they've brought mindfulness and meditation out into the public and said all of these like positive claims and everybody should do this. But, uh, but there are a few things that they noticed in a lot of these studies cause there's, there's hundreds of hundreds of studies. And the main concerns with some of these studies are that there are no active control groups in a lot of these studies. So you compare somebody who's doing a meditation to somebody who's not doing anything or waiting. And that doesn't really tell us much because, uh, any self-care activity that you have that is in some way structured is going to be better than sitting around and waiting. Totally. And the person who's likely to undertake any sort of self-improvement type behavior is far different than the person who's either resistant to that or not able to participate for sure. Yeah. Yeah. And it's the same with like taking a pill and it being a placebo. It's like, you think that you're doing something beneficial. Yep. There's some effect there. Yeah. There's some, yeah. I think that's, that's interesting because you, one of the questions I had for you was like, how good is the research here? And that maybe spoke, speaks to a bigger point that at least my understanding, um, when it comes to meditation is that, you know, we're looking for a direct like input meditation output reduction on blood pressure or reduction in cardiovascular disease risk or symptoms thereof, um, or trajectory, whatever improvement there. My, my interpretation here is that meditation and to the extent that it does either help people manage stress or reduce stress. If you wanted to put it on that sort of scale, it enables people, unlocks people to participate in other health promoting behaviors, make different choices. Um, and ultimately kind of, uh, change how they interface with their environment and the subsequent stress they have in their day to day life. It's not that meditation itself is like, you know, the sink, the one thing that's doing, it's maybe like, uh, there's a bunch of positive externalities to that sort of behavior. Is that accurate or am I just blowing smoke? I mean, that, that's where all of these other additional health claims come in. It's because meditation can make you more aware of yourself and your body. Um, it can make you more mindful that that's the whole point, but then that might, uh, affect the other, the other things that you think you might eat more mindfully, you might, um, you know, engage in more self care activities. You might be, now you notice stress earlier because you're aware of the symptoms of stress in your body. And so that you can make, you know, you can make decisions based on that. Um, plus it's just, I think it's just so useful to have these tools in your toolkit to understand your body's physical reactions to stress, to danger, to anxiety and just know how they show up for you. And then as you move around in life, you're just, you're just much more aware. And then you make this, hopefully you make better and healthier decisions for yourself. Yeah. Yeah. People, you know, they'll commonly ask us, because we do explain particularly in our seminars and some of our other work, you know, that a, an individual stress from not, you know, not only their day to day life, but just, you know, their entire existence to date shapes their experience of any particular stimulus. So whether it's like a, a medical condition that's genetically based or that, you know, an exposure or it's exercise, even, you know, that is applied to the individual and their uniqueness as an organism effectively shapes how they experience that. And part of that is stress, right? So we mentioned stress, but then people will invariably say, well, how do I, how do I manage stress? And, you know, the hand wave, the answer, oh, just, you can meditate. You know, and they're like, well, okay, like how do I do that? You know, or like, where do I start? Um, we're gonna, we're gonna get there. But I did want to briefly address if, if there's all these health benefits from meditation due to maybe the knock on effect of participation in the, in that, in that activity and subsequently your ability to focus. Is there an application here in sport? Right? Cause it seems like, okay, maybe there's like a improvement in performance that could be gleaned here by being able to focus, uh, you know, maybe consciously, right? You have these tools now that you can focus on sports performance, work performance, cognitive performance, something like that. Is that, is that legit? Or am I, am I just making stuff up here? Yeah. No, like I, I think absolutely. And like a lot of pro athletes will use different types of meditation as preparation. Um, I think the most important thing is again, just that ability to focus and to really focus when it matters the most, especially if you're, if you're competing in something and you know, the moment is now you have one chance to score the goal. Like all eyes are on you. The crowd is, I don't know, either they're shouting abuse or they're just cheering or whatever. You have to, you know, you have to be able to focus on what you need to do in that moment, um, and not get distracted by all of the external noise. And I think that's, that's probably the most important way that meditation can, can help you. And also like if, if, if you're an athlete, there's a lot of pressure, right? And there's probably a lot of negative self-talk and doubt and all of these things, especially if you're performing at those pro levels that you need to, you need to be able to deal with. Yeah. So the meditation would have let you effectively focus on the task at hand and at least on what you can control. Perhaps is there good evidence here for like, look, if you're a soccer player, you would say football, uh, athlete, uh, it helps. Yeah, either way. Right, right, right. Uh, or any particular sporting application that you've seen, like decent evidence for just to give people, um, maybe like a, an example of the magnitude of potential benefit here is anything that that exists in that space. So I, um, I, I know that there's a lot of research on the type of meditation called visualization, which is it's, you're still meditating, but you're focusing on a vision or mental imagery. And that's used a lot in, in sports applications and a lot of coaches use that with, with their teams. There was one study, um, where they showed that people who went to the gym. So there's, there's two groups of gym goers, people who practice visual imagery. So they, they were visualizing themselves, perform like a clean impressed, um, while they were doing it. And then there was just the other group that just did it normally. The, the group that visualized at the same time as they were executing the exercise were able to lift like 15 pounds, uh, heavier than their max weight. Um, which is like, I don't know how much 15 pounds is in kilos. Uh, seven and a half kilos approximately. Yeah. Yeah. Which is like significant. Totally. It was, it was a small, it was a small study, but, but there are a lot of, uh, different examples from different institutions that are kind of similar. It's like when you're focusing on, again, it's just, it's down to focus. You're focusing on executing the exercise or you're focusing on the task at hand. You, um, you're able to perform better. There's, um, with, with sports, particularly there's less evidence to say that it helps you with putting on muscle mass, even though you would think that, okay, if somebody's doing it, um, if they're visualizing at the same time as they're lifting over a course of, I don't know, eight weeks, that maybe they, they have increased muscle mass because they're able to lift heavier. Um, but I think those studies are kind of, they're difficult to execute. Yeah. Where's the control room? There's so many different variables. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, so maybe before, cause we're going to hop into visualization specifically you're in a second, but if somebody wanted to start meditating today, they hear this podcast or like, you know, Anne Sophie, she sounds very intelligent. I've been wanting to manage my stress better and meditation seems like a reasonable ask for me. Where would you recommend, where and how would you recommend they, they go to start? I, um, and maybe I shouldn't say this because I've worked on competitor apps, but I'd say headspace is a great place to start. Sure. This is not sponsored by headspace, by the way. Yeah. Not, but you're welcome to sponsor. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, uh, or just, I mean, just go on, on YouTube. This is what I do. I like, if I need a guided meditation, if I'm, if I'm feeling in a place where I'm like, I know that I, my, my focus is lacking. I can't meditate by myself. I just need somebody to guide me through and give me those signals to remind me to, you know, bring my focus back. If I'm distracted, I just go on YouTube and I type in a certain meditation and I, like you can, you can type in meditation for compassion, meditation for, uh, speaker anxiety. You can, you can, you know, they've tailor made meditations for absolutely everything nowadays. Um, the principle of the meditation is the same. It's most of the time it's going to be focus, uh, focused attention or visualization or something like that, but just type it into, into, um, even Spotify, YouTube or something like that, or if you want to learn, uh, very strict kind of meditation, just like the, the foundations headspace is a great place to go because they, they've got these series. It's like introduction to meditation. You can do that. The problem with these meditation apps and these, this is why I've stopped working on meditation apps is that it gets very samey. Um, the script in a meditation, you know, after a few years, you're like, I've, I've heard this before. Like it's, it's just always the same. It's, it's somebody telling you focus on your breath. And then after a few minutes, they remind you, Hey, like, are you distracted? Come back and focus on your breath. Got it. So it's, yeah, it's, it's not, it's not always going to be the most exciting thing. Um, and apps also, you know, they need to focus on retention rates. And so it's, it's hard to gamify something like meditation because it's counterintuitive to have any sort of like dopamine rush associated with that. Yeah. Um, you know, gamify it in any way that you're earning points. Like it just doesn't really make sense. Yeah. You're in the middle of a meditation and all of a sudden that little notification pops up. You've been meditating for a hundred minutes this month. Congratulations. And you're like, yeah, like very, very early onto this. Like I was in all, I was into all of the, like the tech devices and, you know, the wearables and whatever. And there's wearables for meditation. Like you can wear an EEG headband. Yeah. Cool. You just have at home and it, um, you can do like biofeedback so you can see how well you're meditating, which. I think I saw some women wearing that at Coachella. Yeah. I thought that's, I thought it looked interesting. Turns out it's EEG. All right. Interesting. Yeah. I mean, yeah, I would say, I would say the, the best way, if you wanted to just to start meditating right now, the, the best way is to just focus on your breathing for a few moments and you don't even just set a timer for like five minutes and see how, how long you can focus on your breath. And anytime that you get distracted, which you will, and sometimes you'll get distracted after just three breaths and you're going to think, you know, I, this isn't for me, I can't do this. That's not an invitation to stop. It's an invitation to practice again, to redirect your focus. It's, you have five minutes, just every time you get distracted, you're back in the present moment, use that as an opportunity to come back to the practice and focus on your breathing. Yeah. I like that. And, and one of the, one of the strategies I've personally used, you know, I don't, you know, really extol my virtue of how good I am at meditating publicly. I don't pretend to be an expert here is that when I am doing something like this, I will actually, if I find myself get distracted, I'll hold up a finger and I'll be like, okay, that's one, that's two, that's three. Only is like a, because with respect to like training is a big part of my life and, and sort of part of my background. And so making progress is also like very tuned into that. So like, how am I getting better? So what I'm doing working. And so I can like gauge, I'm like, okay, this particular block of time that I set out to meditate for now, I got distracted 13 times. Okay. It's a number. Yeah. But I would, but I would prefer it to get better, you know, over time, you know. Yeah. I agree. But also it just, where your focus is and how, you know, how easy it is for you to focus that it gets better. The more you meditate, of course, you're going to have less distractions, less interruptions, but there's still going to be days, even 10 years down the line, where you're just not folk, or there's external distractions. You know, you can't create the most perfect space. You can go into a yoga studio, do a meditation class. It's going to be nice and quiet. It's going to be calm. You're going to be in your comfy clothes. Um, but that's not the representation of real life. Totally. Yeah. It's going to help you in real life when there's like noises around, but you have this meeting that you need to focus on and maybe you can like use that skill to that focus on your meeting versus those noises and distractions. But at the end of the day, like we live in a busy world. There's always going to be distractions in the form of real external noises or internal distractions, thoughts and feelings, or you're going through something. Um, it could be anything. So, so even if you're an experienced meditator, like don't judge yourself if one day you're sitting down and you're just distracted all the time. Yeah. I don't harangue myself about, oh my gosh, you're terrible today. To me, it's just more of an input to say, oh, wow, there's a lot that's going on up there. And so perhaps increase the frequency for a spell. Just maybe that's helpful. I mean, I'm making self-treating here, you know, but this is, this is also where I think that it fits in very well with like sports performance is that the core tenant of meditation is that when you're distracted, you're not supposed to judge yourself for being distracted. You're not supposed to judge the nature of the thoughts or the feelings that you have, even though, you know, you might be sitting there and you're like, I'm going to do this like meditation practice and I'm going to be really good. And then you have thoughts that are like, yeah, I don't know, make like evil thoughts. Let's say like, inclusive thoughts or I don't know, like you wish badly upon someone all the time. But you just, you can't judge yourself for having those thoughts. And that helps you with your self-awareness. That's what's going to help you make better decisions for yourself and your life in the future, because you understand yourself and you're not judging yourself. You're like, okay, had this weird thought, it doesn't define me. It doesn't mean that I'm a bad person. Just had that thought. Okay, it's not an important thought.  ab excuses. And I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read on I read powerlifting, which we charitably call that a sport, there's like this perseveration over numbers. And if you don't achieve those numbers, especially at a meat failure, and you worry about it, and you're like, I got to hit this, I have to. And then, you know, you can kind of spiral, you know, in the warmup room, and you're like, Oh, it feels a little heavy, start to worry. And it's like, Well, that's not that that's not helpful to the task. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So my one of where you need to go. Yeah, it's one of my cues, I guess, or thing like kind of a re centering practices is like, I feel how tight my belt is, like I feel this belt. And it's like supporting me and that feels it. And if I just focus on that, I can't actively think about anything else. Yeah, whatever. Anyway, because it's not tied to any performance thing, you see what I'm saying? It's like, yeah, that's also why, why meditation can help with feelings of happiness and contentment. Because the more you're paying attention to the actual sensations in the present moment, the less that you're focused on anxieties about what the future holds or about the past, because there's no room for that when you know, you're like, Oh, how is this? How does this chair feel that I'm sitting on? How is my weight distributed? You know, the sun on my skin, you just when you're in the present, there's most of the time, unless you're going through something really bad, you're safe, you're, you know, you're there, there's no threats around you. And then you focus on the physical sensations of the present, you try and, you know, bring in all of your, your senses. There's, yeah, you're not lost in your thoughts. Yeah, you know, anxious or stressed out or worrying about anything. It's hard to focus on multiple things at one time is what I found. And so, yeah, I think that's some good advice. You can, people can start with an app. They can start with their breath. They can start with some sort of physical sensation that they're actively feeling. Ideally, it's a neutral sensation, not like a particularly bad one. Because like with respect to pain, hypervigilance towards pain, tend to be a bad general badness for like how they recover from said pain, disability related to that and kinesophobia, fear of movement related to that pain. But otherwise, it's just challenging to focus on these three things at the same time. It's like pick something, ideally neutral and just kind of turn the wheel there. Yeah, just focus. And that's also where a lot of the research on learning and memory comes in, is that a lot of time, and this has come up a lot for me recently because everybody's talking about like, what new tropics should I take or like what, what, what supplements can I take to boost my memory and cognition? It's like, no supplement is going to help you if you're not paying attention to what you want to learn in the first place. And if you're focused on what you're learning, you are actively taking in that information. It's much easier for you to encode that into your memory versus when you're distracted. So no supplement is going to help you with your memory if you're not paying attention in the first place. And if you're training yourself to pay attention, even better for your memory. I love that. I love that. All right, well, let's pivot to visualization, kind of alluded to it earlier. In a way, I understand visualization. It's the technique that involves creating mental images of desired outcomes, experiences, potentially behaviors. And so it's like a form of mental imagery that aims to enhance performance, well-being, and ultimately achieve individuals' goals. Where I have had kind of some experience with visualization is in sport where you cannot actively practice or engage in that sport as much as you otherwise would like to. Sometimes there are rules. So for example, in MotoGP, they limit the amount of practice that competitors can do. It's a safety concern. So you can't go to the track every single day before race. Yeah, there's a certain amount of testing time, certain budget that can be allocated there in a certain amount of time because they don't want their athletes to just crash their brains out all the time. So what they'll do is not only SIM-based training, but also active. This is our visualization time. And so we're going to rehearse the course in your brain, this particular turn, or what gear are you in, and what's your lean angle, stuff like that. Is that legit? When it comes to performance in sport, is there good data on how visualization can carry over here? Yeah, and have you ever seen the videos of Formula One drivers that have got the steering wheel in their hands, and they have their eyes closed, or they're seeing it in an image, and they're mentally rehearsing that. But it's basically, they have learned the track, let's say, like the back of their hand, and they could do it with their eyes closed. And in that way, they're just, I mean, on the day when they're competing, it's they're just going to be so much more well equipped to do that because they already, it's like, it's like the muscle memory. Totally. But there's different types of visualization that you can do. Michael Phelps famously, I think it was the 2008 Olympics, he had water in his goggles while he was swimming. Terrible. Yeah. But he had, as part of his training, apparently would use different types of visualization where he would visualize, and this is called visualizing in the negative, which isn't always recommended for people, it's like a stoic principle where you imagine the worst thing that could go wrong, and you mentally rehearse how you would overcome if that were to happen. Sometimes people use that also if they're getting on stage, and they're nervous, or they're performing, or something like that, they imagine the worst thing going wrong, like forgetting what they were going to say, or just being too nervous to take the shot. And because they've mentally rehearsed it so many times, they know what to do in that situation if it ever happens in real life. It's like their backup plan kind of thing. Exactly. So it's just like mentally preparing yourself for that. But then again, it really depends on individual differences. There are some people for which that kind of technique wouldn't work because they would get too caught up in the anxiety of something going wrong, and then it would be the self-fulfilling prophecy where they're like, you know, they're just aware of all the things that could go wrong. Yeah, yeah. Do you find that there's like a particular type of visualization, whether it's rehearsing the act, right, which is maybe more like neutral, right? You're just doing the thing. That's called process visualization, where you're in the process of doing something or executing a task. And I assume there's also negative types of what's the worst thing that could happen, and I assume there's also positive visual, you know, what's the best thing that can happen? Yeah, and so then there's, yeah, so the main ones I think that people use, and especially with athletes, is process visualization, where you're visualizing the process of achieving the goal. And that helps you, first of all, because you're, you know, everything that it takes in order to get there. And that's what the F1 drivers are doing when they're visualizing the process of training for the, I don't know, all the right words for most. No, totally fine. But then you have outcome visualization, which is where you visualize the outcome. So you, a lot of people do this, they visualize what it would look like if they've already achieved their goal. So you could visualize, for example, what would it look like me winning this powerlifting competition? Yeah, a lot of dudes would be like, cool. So you visualize it, but you critically what you have to do to make it more effective and to engage more areas of the brain is to bring in as many senses as possible. So you have vision and the reason why that's so effective is because the visual system takes up such a big portion of the brain. Your visual cortex is quite big. And when you're visualizing something, you activate similar areas like overlapping areas as if you were seeing it in real life. So obviously you don't have the input from your eyes into the optic nerve and the visual cortex, but there are certain brain areas that are that are still activated as if you were really seeing it happen. And then if you bring in some of the other senses, maybe you can imagine yourself in the space, you can smell what that conference room smells like or what the air is going to be like. You can visualize your posture or how it feels to have achieved that goal. And that floods your brain with the same chemicals and endorphins as if you were really achieving that goal. And that helps you bridge the gap between where you are now and what's possible for you in the future. So for some like, you know, breath work, wellness, you people will co-opt some of that science and say, like, this is what manifestation is. You know, you can very quickly like, you know, fall into that kind of area, which is not something that I believe in personally, but I see visualization as a way, it is a way to work towards your goals. And there is also research that shows that if you practice visualization, like goal-oriented visualization, that you're more likely to achieve your goal. That's not because you're magically manifesting something to happen. It's because most of the time you see this as a practice that you do day in, day out. So every single day, you're priming your brain to think about what do I have to do in order to achieve that goal. And so your actions are going to be more aligned with, you know, maybe you're going to even on an off day, go to the gym or practice because you're like, hey, I've got this big goal and I can feel what it feels like to do that. And I need to practice and I need to, you know, get over however I feel today and make sure that it happens. Again, just last thing that I would say is that it's always like down to individual differences because there are some people where that's going to be really useful for them as a goal-setting technique. And then there are some people where because they've already felt all of the feelings associated with actually achieving the goal, actually end up less motivated to train the goal because they're already happy, they're already satisfied. Yeah, yeah. So ultimately not really helping them along. Yeah, I feel like they already got it. I feel like you just need to understand what kind of person you are. Yeah, yeah, identifying what are your predilections and what are your, you know, sort of maybe to co-opt the term from like business like pain points, like, okay, where's the gap? Yeah, some of this to me visualization seems almost like a like an information gathering process, especially if you are trying to, you know, you visualize yourself succeeding, for example, and you identify like, oh, there are various steps along the way that I was maybe either blind to previously or hadn't fully fleshed out and now you're like, oh, I need to address these things or should practice them. And visualization, I use it, I use visualization probably more than any of these other type things, particularly like related to meditation and other, other maybe mental health practices, mostly related to training, competing most of the time. And then also in motorsport, where you can rehearse a lap, what's the perfect lap and oh, if this line, this particular, you know, path through a corner is not available, I would do this one. And so you just have, there's a shorter road to go to what's planned B. You don't have to think on the fly, you've kind of already done that legwork. And so it becomes more, as you mentioned, like, is it muscle memory? Is it brain, brain memory? I don't know. It does seem to be useful for me, but I can also imagine a scenario where a person engages and all the stuff. And maybe that doesn't really work for them. And so, yeah, individual responses as most things. Yeah, I would say like as a goal setting technique, it's really great. It's like, you know, it's the difference between somebody who wakes up on or it's January 1st, and they like write a list of 10 things that they want to achieve in that year. And then they never look at that list again, versus somebody who says like, you know what, I'm going to visualize achieving this goal. And like, they're just much more likely to actually achieve it because they first of all, they remember it, they're paying attention to it. And then they're taking actions that are in alignment with that. Do you recommend that people, if someone wanted to start, again, visualization practices today, do you recommend like stacking that with a meditative practice? Like, okay, first get yourself focused and then pick a visualization target. Or is it like, you don't need to do that. Maybe we'll start with just a process based approach or something like that. Do you have any recommendations on this one? Yeah, I guess it really depends on the person. So first of all, there are some people who will be listening to this and they'll be like, I don't know what the hell you're talking about. Fair. Yeah, honestly. If you tell them to close their eyes and imagine an apple, they just won't have like they never, it's never happened for them before. Yeah, like what's an apple? Yeah, but like you can like what if you close your eyes and you visualize an apple, what does that look like for you? Yeah, I'm thinking this oblate spheroid object, it's shiny, it's smooth to the touch, the lights glaring off one side, wherever the light sources, it's in my case, it's green because green apples are superior, granny smith, preferentially that stupid stem is sticking out at a dumb angle. Okay, so you have like you have a very clear idea of what that looks like. I have the same mine is like green and a bit of red, like on the side, but I can see you like shiny and it's turning like I can see it turning. Oh, it's on a okay, it's on. Yeah, a little easy. There are some people who will be like, I have no idea what you like. I know what an apple looks like, but I can't just bring it to mind. And so there's a small percentage of a population that has something called aphantasia, where they cannot voluntarily recall images. So you tell them to imagine whatever it's not, it's like, they look at you sideways. There's nothing is black. So for those people, visualization is obviously not an option. It's something that you can train because it's not necessarily to do with not being able to see mental imagery. It's just that process of voluntarily recalling mental imagery that is kind of disrupted. So they might still be able to dream in pictures, but they won't be able to close their eyes and visualize something. It's that voluntary recall that just system is and you can train that by slowly practicing visualization and, you know, like it can get better over time for some people for some people, it can't. So if that's you, then maybe visualization is not going to be the way to go. But I would say all of these different types of meditation, it's mostly just about being able to focus and focus your attention. So if you're trying to visualize something and you're always getting distracted, yeah, maybe start with just a strict meditation first, train yourself to be able to pay attention if that helps. For some people, visualization is the better way to train attention because you have more anchors, like more things that you can call upon. You can call upon your sights and the sounds and like what it might feel like if you're really putting yourself into that space. Some people actually use this for, you know, to fall asleep because they imagine themselves like lying on a cloud and it's fluffy and it's dark and it's cool, you know, and you can really bring about all these different states of mind. But I would say just maybe set aside a few minutes every day to visualize something and it can be as simple as visualizing how you want the rest of your day to go forward. You know, you can visualize yourself achieving all the tasks that you want to do, being in good mood, having good conversations with people, having a good influence on people, people walking away from interactions with you, feeling like good and positive. So that's a really good way to start because it's like, it's real, it's tangible. Yeah, this may be a dumb comment, so just bear with me on this. But it does seem like what you're saying, obviously some regular practice, regular frequency doing this seems to be helpful, but temporally, time-wise, it seems like, yeah, ideally you're doing this beforehand, like whatever the task is. And is there like some immediacy type bias here where it's like, look, if you have a particular task that you want to get up for, you want to maximize your performance or your whatever, right before, is that the perfect, the best time? Or like, could you do it hours before? Could you do it days before? Yeah, like, okay, so it depends on what the task is specifically. I'm just thinking about squatting 300 kilos. So there are some studies, if you're looking at things with immediate effect where they do these, have you heard like ultrasound imaging of the muscles, immediate the biof- yeah, of course you have, because that's what you do. But like, this is, this is more, you know, separate to the work that I've done. But if you have, if you have this like real-time visual biofeedback, they've had this in settings where people are seeing their muscle be activated, and it's a specific muscle. And if they're visualizing that muscle be activated by seeing this ultrasound image, they can actually engage more of the muscle and engage more like smaller and specific muscle groups to increase like the muscle activation. Force production and such, yeah, okay. Yeah, yeah, who would say that? If you're able to like recruit more of the muscle than if you were just like flexing with, you know, without kind of paying attention, and it's, and that visual feedback really helps. And so the same way, like if you, if you don't have that visual feedback from the ultrasound, you can do that by mentally like visualizing what's the muscle that I'm activating now. I think that's, but like, do you ever do that when you're doing a squat is like really paying attention to like, these are the muscles, I'm, and you really feel what it feels like to activate and engage that muscle? Yeah, I mean, with, when lifting heavy weights, most of the time I visualization strategies go to like, what would this perfect rep look like? And like, what am I feeling like with respect to the bar in a squat? For example, the bar is fighting me. It wants to crush me, take me forward. It wants me to fall, right? So what, what's that? What am I going to feel like? And what does it look like? And to the extent that I don't know, I could be placebo in myself. But if I'm trying to just catch a pump, you know, for the, for the bros, for example, yeah, I will divert my attention towards like, Oh, what? Yeah. Okay, my biceps. Sorry. Here's what that muscle, here's what it looks like anatomically. And I'm trying to do this particular action. Maybe that's been my hack this whole time. You know, I've just been visualizing my muscle. I do that, like there's so many times I'm at the gym and I'm just like, I'm on my phone and I'm just kind of like doing I just know I need to like, I have the weight set at the way that I know that it's like, I'm pushing myself, but I'm just doing it and trying to get it over with and just not paying attention. But then for the last few reps, it's like, I really need to focus so that I do this. And because when you're visualizing it and when you're paying attention, you're recruiting more of the muscle, like that will help with, you know, your gains, I guess. Yeah, mind muscle, maybe that's what people are really talking about. Because I'm like, Well, your mind is definitely attached to the muscle. Otherwise, you're going to be up a creek, like trying to get that thing to contract. So, you know, you can set that aside. But yeah, perhaps, you know, again, diverting attentional focus towards the muscle and or muscle groups that you're aiming to target. Yeah, seems like that is a reasonable ask for people that are like, How could I level up with my training here? And so you're actively doing while you're lifting, which is, but that's the whole principle of mindfulness. And, you know, we were talking about like, how do people begin? And a lot of the time people think like, I just, I don't have time to, you know, sit and do a 10 minute or 20 minute or 45 minute God forbid meditation practice every single day. But mindfulness is a form of meditation, which is you're just being mindful of like the sensations. This is what we're talking about. You don't need to take any time out of your day to practice mindfulness. The only thing you need to do is to remove the distractions and focus on the tasks that you're already doing. Practice mindfulness by like being mindful at the gym and focusing on the muscle activation and like imagining which specific muscle group you're targeting and what it feels like to lift the weight and what it feels like to all of this stuff. Like that is a meditation. Like your gym can be like a practice in mindfulness, just the same way as when you're cooking or when you're folding laundry, pay attention to the sounds, you know, and the smells and the textures. That is mindfulness and that's going to help you have a happier life because again, when you're being mindful and when you're being focused on the task at hand, your brain is less likely to think about all of these like awful scenarios that it's making up. Yeah, it's funny. I think people almost, and maybe I might be projecting is like, if you're doing a mundane task in life, you're almost purposely trying to be distracted. Like, I don't want to think that I'm doing laundry or dishes right now or cleaning, but it's like, this is an opportunity to practice being focused. Even if you don't want to smell the, you know, the smell of dish cleaner or the whatever, you know, how the fabric feels as you're folding it or whatever. But it's, but it could be a way when a person's busy life that they could actually kind of practice some of these. Yeah. And for those people who are, you know, wanting to know like the best new tropic and, you know, not man, will creatine help me with my cognitive function. The research is showing that the best thing for your memory are these idle moments. It's when you're not doing anything to just be mindful. That's when a lot of the information processing happens in your brain. It's like when you're at the gym, you need a rest state in order for the muscle to recover, right? Like it's part of your, the regimen. It's like essential. And it's the same thing for encoding memory. You're just constantly getting this barrage of information from all of your senses. And the brain is like it's, it's made to forget and not pay attention to things. Like if you were paying attention to all of the things that you're seeing and feeling and hearing at the same time, you'd be so, you know, I'm overwhelmed right now to be honest. Yeah, exactly. Because like you're not paying attention to the way that the shirt feels on my body or the way that the chair feels or the temperature of the floor or the air, you know, you're not, you're not paying attention to all those things. The brain is in a way created to forget and not pay attention to those things. Otherwise it would just be too much. But in those idle moments where you're sitting and doing nothing, don't try to use those to take in more information. And, you know, maybe sometimes when you're listening to a podcast, don't try and, you know, do that while you're also cooking and cleaning. Like I know that everybody wants to multitask, but maybe just sit down and listen to a podcast and try and take in the information from that. Like that's enough. Yeah, how about a single task? Let's start with a single task first. Yeah. Yeah. And there's also, you know, like a neuroscientist don't believe that multitasking is the thing, even though everybody like says that they love to multitask and that they're so efficient when they're doing 100 things at once. But like it looks like in the brain that it's, you're actually task switching between different things. Yeah. So you're not always, you're not paying attention to five things at once. You're switching your attention between like five different things, which is costing you a lot of mental energy. Yeah, you only get 20%. Yeah, I would love, the study I would love to see is you give people some sort of informational podcast, right? And half the group, they're listening to it while they're performing household tasks, for example. And the other half, they're just sitting there listening to the podcast. Yeah, they check retention. Yeah. Yeah, there are studies like that. And there's studies even where they followed up with people five years later who had to do a task where they had to remember like a few words or something like that. And they called them a few years later and they said, like, oh, do you remember the words that you had to remember for this experiment that we did? And the people who were paying attention and who were just sitting and doing nothing else, they were better able to remember five years down the line, the words that they were given. There you go. Well, maybe it's not about doing more, it's about doing better. Yeah, there's a sound bite. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, it is. Clip it. Yeah. All right. Because we were mentioning like how, like how long should you have to practice? And the studies that are the most solid studies on meditation, where you actually see structural changes in the brain, as well as the behavioral changes, is after like eight weeks of mindfulness. Okay. Because you have mindfulness based stress reduction, which is an eight week course, you do 20 minutes to 40 minutes every day. And if you want to see changes in your brain structure, so the neuroplasticity in action, and you know, more gray matter in your hippocampus, which is like helps you with memory as well, then eight weeks, you got to stick with at least eight weeks. And if you want to see state related changes, where you're actually changing who you are as a person, becoming a more mindful person, you want to do around 45 minutes every day. Well, yeah. That's a mask. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It is. It is. It is. But then, but there are also benefits associated with doing it for like up to 20 minutes, but it's, it might just be a little bit more transient. Yeah. It's the same thing as exercise, though, right? Because people are like, okay, how long do I need to exercise to build muscle? It's like, well, it's not like one big gym session. No, you got to keep doing it. And it's going to be some number of weeks before you're actually going to be able to detect appreciable changes in the structure and morphology of the muscle. Although in one single session, sure, there's some benefit there, but they're stacked over time. Yeah, exactly. Same. All right. And here. Yeah. Mental workouts. The last thing I wanted to talk about before we wrap this podcast up is mental resilience. And this is one of the topics that was really interesting to me because when we started doing our seminar, we talk a lot about health and performance. So performance is pretty straightforward to define, but health is a little stickier. And you go in and you look for what have other people said for defining health. And, you know, it started in the 1940s where this definition published said it's being free of any disease, you know, mental, physical, emotional, whatever. And it's like, oh my God, in that case, no one's ever healthy. Right? Like, when are you in the state of Nirvana, like, you know, ever in your life? And so the definition we use in our seminars is from a 2011 piece written by Huber, not to be confused with Huberman. Huber in 2011, British Medical Journal. And the definition they use for health is that it is the ability to adapt and self-manage in the face of social, physical, and emotional challenges. Now, much of that definition has to do with the concept known as self-efficacy. So when somebody has confidence in their ability to exert control over their own motivations, behaviors, social environment, etc. So from a neuroscience standpoint, is some of this rooted in mental resilience? Like, is that really what we're talking about? Yeah, I definitely think so. There's different definitions of what mental resilience is, depending on who you ask or what theory you look at. Personally, for me, I look at it in a mechanical way. It's like, same way in mechanics, like if you exert force or pressure onto an object, how long before it bounces back to its original form and can be used for the same purpose. Some people like to talk about mental resilience as not just bouncing back from adversity, but also coming out better. Ooh, stronger, better. Yeah, okay, more robust. Yeah. Like, I don't always, I don't always go to that because I don't, you know, then you get into like this weird psychology world as well, where you're like, oh, everything bad happens for a purpose and you come out stronger. And like, I just, you know, that sometimes that stuff happens. Yeah, sometimes bad stuff just happens. But it's as long as you know that difficult times will come, but you have trust in yourself to overcome those things. And again, it changes from person to person. And it's like, depends on people's circumstances, because if Jeff Bezos lost his job, or if he was, you know, outed from Amazon, that's not going to affect him in the same way that it would affect somebody who works at the Amazon store, you know, who is responsible for feeding a family of four. It really depends on how, like what circumstances you're in, social factors, health factors, all of those things. But then also, yeah, I think a big part is how you reason your way out of a situation. Whether you can tell yourself like something bad is happening, but I trust myself to get over it. Something bad might be happening, but it's a redirection. It's, you know, something bad might be happening to me, but it's an opportunity for me to learn and to come out stronger and to like prove myself or something like that. I think that's really important because  with this whole meditation stuff, the reason why I became so interested in that is because when I was younger, bad things really happened. A lot of bad things happened to me, and I just had this mindset of, this is just my life, bad things just happen to me all the time and it's just going to be one thing after the next, and you kind of have this feeling of hopelessness. And even though I was studying psychology and then I did my neuroscience and then I was doing, it wasn't until I was actually looking specifically at the studies of putting monks in MRI machines that I realized, oh, I have a say of, I can determine how bad something is or how I'm going to reason my way out of this situation. And I think that's why these techniques are really useful because they give you a sense of power. We talk a lot about self-efficacy and particularly the different characteristics of people that have a high level of self-efficacy versus a low level of self-efficacy. And people who individuals have a high level of self-efficacy tend to have good insight into what's happening. They feel like they have some level of control over what's happening and ultimately have enough resources where they can kind of change the direction of what's happening. They feel like they can change the outcome. Whereas people with low levels of self-efficacy and a number of interesting things. One, they do not have good insight into what's happening. They also feel like they're not in control. They're not like a main driver of what's happening. And ultimately, they've also had multiple experiences where they have either failed to do something and so that's kind of like, yeah, helplessness is some sort of a feeling they commonly report. So when it comes to mental resilience, are there strategies? Like how do you get mentally more resilient? Like how do you develop that? Is it just, look, man, you need 45 minutes a day of visualization. You need 10 minutes a day of meditation and you need a journal and you're good to go. How would you recommend somebody like gets on the path to being more mentally resilient? So again, I would say it really depends on the person. But if you look at one of the ways that you look at mental resilience, there's six components. So there's health and this is your physical health, sleep, all of those things, nutrition, which is like a big thing. And that's important to just have that down and have that secured. And you have vision, which for a lot of people is the most important thing. It's you have this vision for your life and your future and like where you want your life to go. And that kind of like defines all of these other ones. Vision, then tenacity, and this is your ability to pick yourself back up after you've fallen down and keep going. That's a lot easier when you have a vision because you know what you're working towards. Then you have composure and this is all about your ability to stay composed when you're going through stress is to self-regulate. Mindfulness is really important here. And then the other one is collaboration and that's all about the relationships that you have in the social support. There's also studies that show that if you feel like you're part of a community, if you feel like you have social support, you're bound to be more resilient. But I think for all of those components, something that you can do to work on them is to develop that ability to, for self-awareness and reflection through something like meditation. And it doesn't have to be that strict meditation. I think I would encourage anyone who's interested in this to look up different types of meditation. But I think because the knock-on effects are so vast, it can help you with health and your relationships because it helps you be a better listener. It helps you pay more attention, remember things, have more engaging conversations. It also practices that non-judgment, which I think, and I'm not saying everybody who meditates is a good person or above everybody else, but I think it's a really good skill to have is to just see something or whether that's an adversity or whether that's something else to be able to see that, not judge it, but then critically think about how am I going to address this. And with some of the fMRI studies, what they've shown is that people who meditate a lot, they have better connectivity from the prefrontal cortex, like where all your executive functioning happens to the emotional areas of your brain, like your amygdala, even in some cases your amygdala can shrink, so you have less of that emotional reactivity. But you have better connectivity from your prefrontal cortex to your limbic system, emotional centers of your brain, which just allows you to approach problems with more of a level head, which I think is good in any circumstance. And especially if you want to be mentally resilient, you have to be able to have a clear mind when you go into a situation. Yeah, if you have more tools at your disposal that you can face this challenge with, in addition to maybe removing some of the self-deprecating judgment stuff that goes along, yeah, this is happening to me versus to use a manifestation phrase for me. But then you can use all these different types, you can use visualization to help you set a vision and a clear goal for your life if you're lacking direction. That can really help you because you can sit down and reflect for a few minutes every day. Where do I want my life to go, especially if you feel a bit lost? Where do I want my life to go? And it can also help you because a lot of the time people go through difficult situations, not because things are just happening to them, but because maybe they lack that vision and they're putting themselves into positions that they don't need to be in. For example, if you're in a job that it's not your dream job, it's not helping you get to where you want to go in your career. And it's a really shitty situation. Sorry if I cannot swear on this podcast. You're boss is awful to you, you're under so much stress and so much pressure. And that's affecting your health, that's affecting your relationships, that's affecting so many other aspects of your life. If you just had this vision of where your life was going, you might realize that you don't need to put yourself under all of this stress, you don't need to put yourself through that specific adversity. You can pick your battles, so to speak. And I think visualization can also be great for that, to help you build resilience, to help you realize that not every battle is worth fighting. Yeah. And a person who views themselves as in control of their own destiny on some level, they're probably more apt to make changes, or at least they feel more empowered to make changes versus a person who's like, I have no control over this, I can't do anything, I'm stuck. And it's like, well, you are now. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Yeah, interesting. Okay, I have, this is like a lightning round thing. So just here you go. I want to ask, I try to ask most of our guests these questions. So first off, this is a Barbell Medicine podcast, we have to talk about exercise on some level. What is your preferred exercise, like routine? I think, as I recall, you were previously in like body, but like physique competition stuff. What are you doing now? Are you a Pilates princess, or what are we doing? Not after your podcast. Thank you. Yeah, I listened to that. No, no, no, I still love strength training, bodybuilding. I think for me, it just gives me a lot of structure, because it's, yeah, like, I don't know, it's very goal oriented, which makes sense to me. Before I did that, I spent years, like I would always be quite active, I would always be in the gym, but I wouldn't really see any progress. And then it just kind of came to a point where I'm like, why am I spending all this time? Like, yeah, I feel great. But like, I do want to see some results. So I love structured. Yeah, right. There you go. And nutrition and like, yeah. Yeah, no, it gives you, it's like a, it's a good anchor, right? You're like, okay, this is the process, you're goal oriented, here's my chart, my progress, everything that I do in my lifestyle is like, helping supportive. And I think for some people, especially when I was doing this like hardcore, and like, I would go for dinners and I would bring my own food. Some people thought that it was quite restrictive and I understand that it can be and it's not, you know, the healthiest of types of exercise, especially if you're competing, which I never did. But for me, it was actually very freeing because I just hired somebody else to keep track of my progress, to tell me what to eat and what to exercise. And so that just took a lot of that mental load off of me. Yeah, I like that. All right, second lightning round question. I'm going to ask for either what you're currently reading or a book recommendation that you'd want to pass on to our audience. Yeah, none of the fairies, that's not appropriate, that's not. I haven't even read that. Yeah, good. Good. But I'm so tempted. Yeah, yeah, right. Okay, so a book, a book that basically that changed my life and my understanding and also the course of the research that I was interested in, many years ago now, I think 2008 was the emotional life of the brain. This is by and I always mix this up and I should probably learn it, but can't be bothered either Richard Davidson or David Richardson. It is by Richard Davidson. Richard Davidson, who he is a professor from the University of Wisconsin, or was at the time, but they were, they really pioneered a lot of the work on, you know, putting monks and MRI machines, understanding what's happening in the brain when people are meditating. It was really inspiring to me and this was really transformational for me when I was, in that mindset of these things are always happening to me and this is just how my life is going to look and it's just going to be one thing after the next. And I think from that book, and it might be a bit old now, hopefully there's an updated version, it really helped me understand how I can change my outlook on life and how I can change my brain and understand my emotions in a different way. Yeah, I like that. Okay. Next lightning round question. What's one thing that people should start doing to improve their mental game? Can I say stop doing? Sure. Start multitasking. Start monotasking. Stop multitasking. I like that. It's a trend. Do one thing at one time. Like it's enough. Sure. And yet potentially combining that with like just focusing on what you're feeling, what you're seeing, what you're hearing, what you're smelling, whatever, just at the time. Yeah, if you have something to do, just do that thing. I promise you there's going to be enough like information from all of your senses to like pay attention fully to that one thing. Cool. I like that. Last but not least, where can people find you? We'll link all the stuff in the show notes, but yeah, where can people find you on the interwebs and such? On the interwebs, a few different places. So I use my sub stack to talk a little bit more about some specific research in neuroscience, particularly to do with meditation, like wellness-y stuff, debunking some of the thought pieces on that. I use my Instagram to poke fun at a lot of the wellness trends and meditation trends. So if you're interested in more of like just not so serious content, you can find me there. My sub stack is rewiremeet with Ansofi. Like that? Yeah. And then my Instagram, I don't know if I can say it. Yeah, it's koochiebygoochie. I'll link that in the show notes. Just link it. My Instagram is linked in the show notes. Yeah, I would love to see you guys there. Perfect. Well, thank you so much for joining us on the Barbell Medicine podcast where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. Again, I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Beigemann. Special shout out to Ansofi Flurry for joining us on this podcast. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all this nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.