 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and it's time to talk about blood pressure once again, and why almost everything you knew is changing. Think of it, when was the last time a simple number could label you with a lifelong disease? Now, for decades, medicine has used a single binary threshold for conditions like high blood pressure or hypertension, but we now know that cardiovascular risk is a continuous spectrum, not a simple on-off switch. And today, we're diving into a new risk-based approach that's used to diagnose high blood pressure, finally moving past those old rigid cutoffs. We'll also break down the updated 2025 American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association guidelines that are pushing for a lower blood pressure goal for most adults, based on the latest evidence, but that's not all. We'll cover the condition that's often called the Silent Epidemic of Hypertension, a condition called primary aldosteronism, and why new guidelines now suggest screening all individuals with high blood pressure for this common, yet often, misdiagnosis. Plus, we'll look at the latest data on drug efficacy, how often you should be checking your home blood pressure if you're monitoring it on your own, and we'll even weigh in on the effectiveness of the new Apple Watch Hypertension Detection feature. Ready to get the updated facts that could change how you practice and how you train? Let's dive in. But first, we have to introduce the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, excited. This is an area that people have paid attention to for a long time, but man, the past few months slash year or so of new publications and guidelines and research coming out, it just accumulated to a point where I was like, dude, we need to do a kind of a comprehensive update, because some of the ways that I even practice and how I assess and manage patients has been directly impacted by much of this in the past year. So, yeah, looking forward to it. Yeah, as you set off air, blood pressure is life. And maybe this whole thing is more important than whether or not you put a couple kilos on the squat. Maybe. Maybe. We'll see. But we are the Barbell Medicine Podcast, so maybe the next podcast is how to add two and a half kilos to your squat. No. All right. Well, let's just dive right into it, because there is a lot of information to cover. First, let's revisit this idea of how someone gets diagnosed with high blood pressure or even like high cholesterol. Again, there's usually these cut points like, oh, if it's above this mark, that means you have this condition, you get the diagnostic label. But Austin, you want to cover how this normally happens in practice? How do people get a diagnosis of like high blood pressure? Yeah, I mean, this states back a long, long time to how we first figured out how to measure these things. If you go back to the original days of measuring blood cholesterol levels, for example, our best measurement at the time, our only real measurement, was just drawing a total cholesterol level. We didn't have any of these kind of sub fractions, sub tests, things like that. And we just had very crude correlational data. And so at the time, you know, you establish some somewhat arbitrary cutoff that attempts to divide those with a disease from those without. It ends up being necessarily pretty crude. And you end up refining that over time as you get better and better, you know, understanding of the disease, you end up getting more accurate and reliable and precise testing. And you also get a better sense of this kind of risk, what we'll call stratification, how precisely and accurately can we divide out those who are truly higher risk versus lower risk? And is it really a binary like that higher versus lower risk? Or is it a gradient, a spectrum of risk, as we'll get to here? And then if it is a spectrum, how do you decide in whom you are going to recommend treatment or at least have that discussion with the patient? Because they're the person who ultimately, you know, is going to be the one who makes that decision, whether to pursue treatment, what that treatment looks like, and how aggressive they want to be about it. And so the same applies with blood pressure, where, you know, we originally got data, I think it was like in the in the 50s or 60s, the first VA cooperative study was the one at the time that looked at blood pressure elevations and the risk of cardiovascular events like strokes. And at the time, you know, the study, if I recall off the top of my head, that one, they were looking at people who's like diastolic blood pressure was over 115, which is like one extremely high. And no surprise, those who had untreated blood pressure is that high. We're at much higher risk of having things like strokes. And when they were treated with medication therapy at the time, and for the record, those are meds that we generally don't use anymore. Those are very outdated drugs, but they were at least effective at lowering blood pressure. There were massive impacts on their risk of stroke. And so, you know, if you think at that time, well, okay, at least we know, based on these data, that having a diastolic blood pressure below 115 is better than having a diastolic blood pressure above 115 diastolic being the bottom number. Most people think of 115 as like, oh, cool, that's a good top number. But this is diastolic, right? So that's as crude as we were able to get at the time, recognizing that at that severe level of elevation, there is a significant potential benefit of lowering it. And in the intervening decades, we have gotten better and better and better data and a better sense of where and how does this risk relationship kind of shake out. The conspiracy minded folks among us will tend to think, well, back then, the cutoff for, say, total cholesterol was over 300 or 200 or whatever the case is. And they really just lowered these cutoffs because they want to sell you more drugs. Or the blood pressure cutoff used to be, you know, a diet, just keep your diastolic below 115 and they're lowering it and tightening it just so they can sell you more drugs as if a large fraction of pharmaceutical revenue is coming from drugs that are pennies, you know, and ultimately generic at this point, which is not accurate. It's just not an accurate representation of this decision making process and the quality of data that we have at this point to at least explain that risk relationship. It is not that our understanding now that in general for blood lipids, lower for longer tends to be better with very high quality prospective randomized controlled, you know, trial data and genetic data and things like that. And to some extent, we see similar relationships with blood pressure down to a level that is much lower than those original studies that we're looking at diastolics of 115 and higher. Now we start to see that people's risk of cardiovascular events measurably starts increasing as their blood pressures start to increase from somewhere in the range of like 110 to 115 systolic for the top number. As it gets higher and higher from there, we start to see people's risk measurably increased. Now it's not as great of an increase as people's cardiovascular risk when their blood pressure is up as high as 160, 170, 180 over the long term, but it is measurable. And so there are implications for that as far as what somebody, how somebody ought to approach the question of how do I maximally mitigate my cardiovascular risk if that is something I want to do. And then from there we can decide, well, what are the potential tradeoffs of that, right? So if I wanted to push somebody's blood pressure down that low, at least pharmaceutically, what tradeoffs are there that I need to be considering mainly in terms of side effects of therapy and things like that. But is there a potential benefit? Based on this continuous spectrum of risk over the lifespan, it seems that getting it lower, not forever, like lower and lower for blood pressure, but down to a certain level, we tend to see significant benefits. So that's kind of been the evolution over the past, let's call it, you know, 100 years of cardiovascular risk estimation with respect to cholesterol and blood pressure and shifting from setting cutoffs based on the best crew data we have at the time to this more continuous variable understanding, not only continuous in terms of measurement, but also across the entire lifespan. Yeah, yeah, you've sort of felt this shift coming, like little by little, you know, especially over the last, I want to call it 20, 25 years. I mean, you think JNC 7, right, Joint National, what is it, Coalition or Committee, Committee, yeah, 7 came out in like 2003, right? And they're like, look, if your blood pressure is greater than one systolic blood pressure grade 115, there's some risk, you know, but you don't know what the risk is. Well, what if it's 116 or 117 or 120, there wasn't, there was no like quantification of that. And we're not that refined yet, but I suspect 20 years from now, like, look, for every one millimeter of mercury that you were above this certain threshold, if you have these other risk factors or none of these other risk factors will be able to get more granular, right? But it is, as you said, getting more and more refined. But you kind of felt this coming, you know, the way clinicians and researchers who were in the know, start talking about blood, have been talking about blood pressure is that, look, if it's higher, that's generally worse. And if it's higher for longer, that's generally worse that if it's for a shorter period of time. And so this, it kind of felt like this was the logical end that you were going to come towards or move towards where it's like, yeah, maybe just this cut point of 120 over 80, it is insufficient to describe not only treatment targets, but also like general advice for, you know, what most people's blood pressure should be and how we think about it as like a broader maybe risk score. So that's a good segue into like this proposed shift towards diagnosing and treating elevated blood pressure and hypertension. It's kind of this risk-based approach. Do you want to talk people through these kind of this updated thinking using this new approach as far as like, what are the new targets maybe, and then also like, how do we arrive at this risk-based score? Sure. Yeah, it's kind of coalescing into what I will call a little bit more of a coherent approach across the different cardiovascular risk factors. But at the same time, I'm going to point out some potential areas for critique here and how individual clinicians or patients might opt for a different strategy based on their preferences, use to borrow some terms from elsewhere that we've talked about before, those who are so-called maximizers versus minimizers, those who want to do everything possible versus those who want to do the least possible to get the kind of a little bit more bang for the buck perspective on this. And so, again, shifting from a more binary, if you're above this number, if you get treated, if you're below this cutoff, you don't get treated, recognizing that this is a gradient or a continuous type approach. But there's also going to be differences based on people's other risk factors, right? So somebody could have high blood pressure alone. It could be mildly, moderately, severely elevated, but no other concerning risk factor for heart disease. They could have excellent metabolic health, blood sugar control, blood cholesterol levels. They might be otherwise lean, healthy, active, and just have a little bit of mildly elevated blood pressure. On the other hand, you can have somebody who has the same mildly elevated blood pressure, but it's also in the setting of maybe poorly controlled diabetes, some elevated blood cholesterol, they might smoke, they might have obesity, insulin resistance, fatty liver disease. I'm painting a very different picture here, right? And then at the other end of the spectrum, you can have somebody with very high blood pressure, extremely elevated with no other risk factors, and the same time, somebody with very high blood pressure and all the risk factors. All of these are kind of different levels of risk. And so if you look back at cholesterol-based treatment guidelines, going back from those original days of, you know, the total cholesterol of over 200 is just like definitively high, and then refining it from there based on LDL or non-HDL, most recently, ApoB type metrics, and then also recognizing that we don't just knee jerk treat everyone above a certain cutoff in that situation, but rather the shift over the past 15-ish, 20 years to using what are called various predictive equations to estimate somebody's risk of having a heart disease or cardiovascular type event. So there have been several iterations of these risk calculators, and we actually talked about the most recent iteration called the prevent calculator that came out last year. And so the idea is that if we punch in people's cumulative set of, you know, established risk factors into these calculators, we can assess, well, what's their risk of having one of these things happen like a heart attack or a stroke in the next 10 years? And if somebody's risk is high, which is also somewhat arbitrarily set at about 7.5% or higher, then you have a more strong justification to treat this patient a little bit more aggressively, perhaps using medications. But if it is less than that cutoff, then maybe it's not super worthwhile, and you can, you know, reasonably continue to observe them. At least that's how a lot of clinicians approach this in practice. We get tons of questions on the forums, and I get, you know, barbell medicine, you know, consult inquiries from people who are maybe a little bit on the younger side, and maybe they have some high blood cholesterol or some high blood pressure, and they say, well, my doctor said that my 10-year risk is not very high, and so they weren't going to suggest doing, you know, anything, at least medication-wise about it, what do you suggest? And so I end up having these conversations relatively frequently. That was, however, not the approach that was typically taken for the management of blood pressure until more recent guidelines have come out, and as I said, had made it a little bit more of a coherent picture in the sense that they are now also advising treatment of blood pressure or not treating blood pressure based on this overall assessment of risk rather than just based on the blood pressure alone. So I can see a way in which this all makes sense of if we view blood pressure as a how high for how long, similar to blood cholesterol, how high for how long, all these other sorts of things, we can estimate somebody's overall risk and treat their cumulative risk rather than just treat the isolated variable of blood pressure or cholesterol alone. I think that that is a reasonable way to go about it, assuming that the population that you are looking at in front of you and trying to make these decisions, like the person, the patient, is well represented by the studies on which these calculators were derived and things like that. So is it generalizable to that person? The issue or the critique that we have had historically is that, you know, these things like high blood pressure, high blood cholesterol, these other cardiovascular risk factors, they can emerge or be present in people who are much younger. And the problem with that is that, you know, somebody who's in their 20s or early 30s, we're not generally that concerned about their 10-year risk of having a heart disease type of antirahstroke. And so just basing our treatment recommendations on what's their risk in the next 10 years, it kind of gives them this 10-year window of unmitigated exposure if you don't do anything else about it. And so their 20 year, their 30 year, their 40 year risk, if you want them to live a long time without having a heart attack or stroke, you're not really doing a ton to modify that risk trajectory. And so waiting until their risk gets high enough, well, there's a fair argument to be made that that's not a super wise decision because you can't undo that exposure later on in life. And so there is an argument that you could make, particularly for those that might resonate as quote unquote maximizers who want to do as much as possible, that potentially treating things a little bit more aggressively, potentially treating them a little bit earlier in life, if your goal is to maximally impact your lifelong risk of these sorts of complications, might be wiser than just deferring just because you're young, for example. And so that's kind of the big picture perspective on this shift from a binary treatment threshold for blood pressure to a more risk-based, which is now a little bit more in line with the risk-based treatment of blood cholesterol levels, both the pros of that approach, as well as some of the potential cons and critiques that we have encountered and that we are faced with when working with people and patients in day-to-day practice. Yeah. To me, it just seems like maybe an expansion of how blood pressure is viewed. Again, it's less of just a single number, looked at in isolation, irrespective of the patient. Not that I think that most physicians were practicing in that manner, but at some time, you have to make clinical decisions, and you have limited time. Unfortunately, we go back to the problems with the system. And so you're like, well, this patient in front of me, we've got an in-office measurement of 135 for their systolic blood pressure. And just looking at them, while they're young and active, they're probably fine. Something like that. That clinician has made a bunch of assumptions and probability-based assessments, and it's like, I don't necessarily think I need to treat this person, but maybe this new information and additional guide for assessing a person's risk over time might actually change what's happening in the clinic. Yeah, one of the interesting things about that is when you're talking about somebody who's young, who might get brushed off, that's a very common thing because, in general, the absolute risk in the near term for somebody who's young of these things is not terribly high. The interesting thing in being in practice, having done primary care, working in the hospital setting, and knowing how a lot of other clinicians operate is they might see a younger person with a little elevated blood pressure in clinic, and the next appointment might be somebody who is in their 80s or even later. And the perspective that they take might be that the young person, they're probably fine, they're quote-unquote too young to put on a blood pressure medicine or to treat their blood pressure or their blood cholesterol, whereas they won't necessarily bat an eye at tweaking it in the older person because they, in absolute terms, the shorter term risk in that older person is, yes, I agree, it is much higher. In my mind, that is a completely backwards approach because the young person is the person whose long-term risk, if unaddressed, is going to accumulate, and you can do something about that now. The person who's in their 80s or 90s, they've already won the game, they have gotten past the average life expectancy, and the whole point of these preventative measures of treating blood pressure and blood cholesterol is so that you can get old and be healthy, or at least not have suffered one of these events. Once you get to that point, and you have maybe, indeed, not suffered one of these events, again, you've won the game, you don't have to necessarily be as ultra aggressive at that point if it's not within the person's goals. And so I'm more often taking the opposite approach of this younger person, those are clues early on in life that I ought to do something or at least address whether it be lifestyle-related or even potentially these meds to mitigate that long-term risk. Whereas the much, much older person, I flip it and I'm like, man, this person's too old to be treating their blood pressure. Yeah, carry on. Yeah, because there's various risks that we'll get to later in being over-aggressive with those patients, and that's actually what I end up seeing more often in the hospital. Yeah, it kind of draws this analogy of how I think about strength training, prescription, and my spidey sense for how important it is for somebody's health. You see a 25-year-old, 30-year-old or whatever who's maybe not exercising, and they express some interest in it, and you're like, yeah, you should do everything. Train like a professional athlete. Go crazy. Go crazy. And it's like, it is likely to improve their health to some level, but the degree of benefit and their existing vulnerability for like sarcopenia, decreased muscular function or whatever is not likely to manifest for decades. Whereas somebody in their 60s, that is imperative to them that they start doing some sort of exercise right now if they're not currently doing it. It's far more important for their immediate trajectory than it is for the younger person, whereas it's kind of flipped backwards amongst most people who think about exercise. They're like, yeah, you're in your 20s. Yeah, go crazy. Go off. Train like a professional athlete, whereas the way I look at it, if you're in your 60s, I'm like, you need to train like a professional athlete because your life depends on it on some level. Yeah, I mean, your cumulative exposure to the iron, to the weights, can impact very potently your bone density and beyond a certain point in life, particularly for post-menopausal women who are not on hormone therapy and things like that. It gets steeper and steeper and steeper uphill battle to try to restore or mitigate bone losses, for example, if you haven't done that earlier in life. It's a similar perspective, just interpret it a little bit differently in terms of this cumulative lifelong exposure to good things or to bad things, be it weights or blood pressure. Yeah. All right. Well, let's talk about these new targets. The 2025 ACC and AHA guidelines, those are acronyms for the American College of Cardiology and American Heart Association. These new guidelines were released and there are some updates to actual blood pressure targets, as well as thresholds for treatment. Just a few highlights here. The new guidelines did reaffirm that for adults with confirmed elevated blood pressure or hypertension that the target should be an office blood pressure goal of less than 130, that's the top number, over 80 millimeters of mercury, that's the bottom number of diastolic blood pressure. Then there's an encouragement to further reduce systolic blood pressure, again, that's the top number, to less than 120 millimeters of mercury for adults. To me, that seems like a relatively mild update, but phrased more clearly because before there was some hemming and hawing and hand waving, like, well, look, if it's an older person, you don't really need to get down that low. Or if a person has other comorbidities, maybe we were more liberal with their blood pressure targets and now they're like, probably shouldn't do that. Is that your understanding of this, what I would call a mild update? It was kind of out there, but not phrased as clearly in previous guidelines. I think it's making it more clear that to this threshold of less than getting it down into the systolic into the teens, for example, this concept of lower into that range is generally better. But it also is, I would say, a good idea or helpful because it kind of puts the onus or part of the decision-making on the clinician to individualize that treatment approach based on the person in front of them of how aggressively do I want to go about this and how am I going to get there? Because the how also matters, right? So if you can get it down that low safely, then that's generally going to be beneficial for their heart disease risk. But if you gave just a blanket recommendation of we want everybody's resting blood pressure in the office setting to be 115 over 70, there is going to be a fair amount of unintended harm from that sort of thing for a few reasons. One, we know that on average, office blood pressure measurements tend to be higher than people's actual resting blood pressure measurements when they're at home or going about their life. And that's why several years back, the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force actually recommended that in order to confirm a diagnosis of high blood pressure that we actually try to get out of office blood pressure measurements if we can get high quality measures that not that we shouldn't exclusively rely on in-office measures alone. And so we know that if you're in office, say, is that tightly controlled that you're probably going to be even lower at home. And for those who are maybe older, who have some comorbidities, who have like neuropathy or neurological conditions or various other things, maybe they end up falling a little bit more often and having injuries like that from that, which is something that I actually see on a pretty regular, regular basis. So it does deliver this message of like, in general, lower is better if safe. And you get to decide below that lower threshold whether it is safe and how you want to actually get there with the person in front of you. Yeah, yeah, they actually further comment on treatment sort of thresholds where they say, look, if you're an adult and you have a blood pressure measurement of greater than 140 over 90 in any adult, probably a good idea to start an anti-hypertensive medication will actually talk about some updates to how you go about doing that, what agents are selected. And then they further kind of refine this and say, well, look, if it's not quite 140, but it's greater than 130 over 80, and you have risk factors of heart disease based on this prevent calculator that's we've linked in the show notes below, if it's greater than 7.5%, you probably would benefit from an anti-hypertensive medication as well, again, further kind of refining these targets for individuals. And then further, they say, well, look, if it's less than or if it's greater than 130, you don't have any cardiovascular risk factors, but you could probably try lifestyle alone, especially if your risk is less than the 7.5% kind of arbitrary cutoff. However, if it maintained, if you can't get a hold on it, you can't get it to below 130 over 80 in like three to six months, probably would also benefit from some medications. And again, this is, I don't know if this is like in response to a criticism of the previous update, which was like 2017 American Heart Association guidelines where they're like, look, we're low on the blood pressure targets. And if you're a skeptic or a critic, you're like, well, look, they're just trying to sell more antihypertensive drugs, which, hey, look, full marks like understandable how you could come to that position. Although if you read the whole document, they're like, no, we want to push lifestyle earlier to try to get a handle on this. But now that again, they've made it more clear, perhaps in response to that criticism. I don't actually know what the, what the committee, you know, how they, how they kind of arrived at this clarification. But to me, it seems reasonable. Yeah, I agree. And I like that they put this kind of caveat or at least the time point on there, because what you sometimes see is if you follow a, you know, maybe a young person who's seen in a primary care clinic, they're not necessarily seen terribly frequently, especially if they don't have a ton of medical problems. And so maybe they come in and they have a concerning, you know, maybe mildly, moderately elevated blood pressure at one of their visits. And maybe the doc says, yeah, let's just like, you know, do some lifestyle changes, heavy air quotes around that, whatever that counseling actually looks like for that person. And then I'll see you in six months, maybe, and maybe that person doesn't actually come back for their six month appointment. And then they come back a year later, also maybe any year later, their blood pressure still elevated, or maybe they're, you know, maybe they're 20s or 30s, and they don't actually see a doctor every year. And so then two years, three years, five years later, they come back. That's years worth of exposure to unnecessarily elevated blood pressure that has not been kind of controlled. And yes, in that short two, three, five year time period, their risk of a stroke is not going to be massively elevated. But that cumulative exposure across the lifespan is the thing that does drive long term risk. And so this is a period of time where we do have more opportunity. And so, you know, when I have these kind of conversations with folks, I give them often a couple of different options. I often have a conversation about here are some of the specific lifestyle things that if we do them, here is the timeline on which I would actually expect to see blood pressure improvements. And so if somebody goes all out with all the behavior change stuff, maybe they reduce their alcohol intake, improve their sleep, exercise, take a few inches off their waist measurement, adjust their diet to promote a healthier dietary pattern, their blood pressure is going to come down in a matter of, you know, days to weeks, I would expect to see that, right? It's not going to take six months to see that. If somebody is going a little bit more gradually, maybe single behavior change at a time, it might take a little bit longer. But I'm not going to say, hey, let's do these things, and then I'll see you in a year or something like that. Or alternatively, what we could do is to spare you that exposure. We could start a super low dose of a medicine now. And then if we end up seeing that your blood pressure is coming down well into the normal range, or even starting to dip a little bit lower than that, then we can just come off the medicine later and we will have, you know, avoided this unnecessary exposure to elevated blood pressure. And so we work through that decision making process kind of together. And patients will opt for different things based on their preferences and things like that. Yeah, that's actually a study I would like to see something large hundreds of thousands of patients where, you know, they're like age match, generally, generally match for like demographics and other information. And then half of them get sort of early medication exposure. Sure. And the other are like, oh, we're going to let this ride for a few months while we initiate lifestyle stuff. And then hopefully you come back and we get a get a measurement. I would be curious, like if you took the that study that those groups, and you follow them for 10 years, 20 years, is there a difference? Because if you see a clear difference, like, well, shoot, maybe we shouldn't do this like early medication if there's no real benefit. Or if there is an apparent benefit, maybe you don't do this sort of like, let's do the lifestyle stuff first and kind of piecemeal it that way. Yeah, I think that that's a that would be a study that would be ideal to have. I don't envision us getting something like that. And ultimately, it's also going to be a matter of degree. And so I think that there would need to be there would need to be some fancy statistical analysis that is above our heads to determine basically, you know, I guess if you think about blood pressure exposure as this area under the curve type cumulative thing over the lifespan, how much or what is the what is the kind of spectrum of risk reduction based on how much of that area under the curve lowering that you get? That was a very confusing way of explaining what I'm trying to say is like, how much did you lower the person's blood pressure upfront? And for how long versus not doing that? And then what was the impact on their risk say 10 years, 20 years, 30 years later? I don't envision we're going to get that study, but that would indeed be interesting to see. Yeah, hey, look, if you're a researcher, just do that. We don't need another creatine study. We need this. How about that? All right, well, look, after the break, we'll be back to talk about new blood pressure screening guidelines, Apple watches, hypertension detection feature and more. All right, we're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We're talking about blood pressure once again, because there have been a lot of updates recent guidelines have.  change some new guidance on what to do for individuals with not only high blood pressure screening and also how to treat individuals with elevated blood pressure. So let's get back to this screening discussion. This was interesting. Now, it's interesting to me as just like a general physiology sort of nerd. I'm like, oh, this is like way more prevalent than we thought. The fact that it's been called like the silent epidemic of secondary hypertension, I did not know that, but it is interesting. So the new clinical practice guidelines from not only the endocrine society, but also you know, there's some guidance in the AHA document. The endocrine society though goes one step further. They say, look, we suggest that all individuals with hypertension be screened for primary aldosteronism by measuring a plasma aldosterone concentration and renin concentration activity and determining the aldosterone to renin ratio. Potassium should also be assessed not for screening itself, but to aid in the accurate interpretation of aldosterone. Now, look, if you haven't taken physiology in the last few years, or all these words are a little foreign to you, here's the overview here. So one of the ways that the body controls blood pressure is by what's known as the renin angiotensin aldosterone system. Now, renin is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It is released in response to reduced blood pressure, which triggers the adrenal glands they sit on top of the kidneys. They produce this other hormone called aldosterone. And aldosterone's job is to make the kidneys retain salt and water, which raises blood pressure and blood volume. Now, in primary aldosteronism, the adrenal glands overproduce aldosterone, but from some mechanism. This leads to sustained high blood pressure that doesn't tend to respond well to standard blood pressure treatment. It can also lead to low potassium levels, which we call hypokalemia. So the new guidelines recommend screening everyone with high blood pressure for primary aldosteronism, because it is so common, something like 14% of all individuals with hypertension in primary care setting have primary aldosteronism, which is actually higher in some specialty clinics. So this is something you've been doing for a few years, I assume because you got wind of this and you're like, huh, that's interesting. What's the reason why you think this took a few years to come into the new guidelines? Has it been collecting more data or just because things move slowly in medicine or what's up? Yeah, a little bit of all the above as a kidney physiology nerd. This definitely caught my attention. And yeah, so I first caught wind of this several years back by way of some endocrinologists who I follow and reading some of the papers that they were citing as this being definitely way more common than was recognized. And for, I know we have plenty of medical trainees, students, residents in the audience, even obviously colleagues and things like that. And we think back to how we get taught about this condition in medical school about primary aldosteronism or also known as con syndrome, where you have this benign adrenal tumor as the classic kind of teaching that is overproducing this hormone that leads to salt retention, blood pressure, elevation. The way we are taught about this condition is that you should start to suspect it when somebody meets criteria for what's called resistant type retention, meaning difficult to treat high blood pressure. So in other words, somebody comes in with run of the mill high blood pressure, you don't actually think about this until much, much, much later in the process. And the criteria for resistant hypertension is for people to be on maximal doses of at least three drugs and one of them has to be a diuretic drug. And all of that takes a fair amount of time for a patient to get started on one drug and then another drug and a third drug and for the doses to get maximized. Or if they have the textbook features of very, very high blood pressure and low blood potassium levels, which as with most kind of like textbook collections of findings, doesn't actually happen in most patients. So most patients with this condition don't have that kind of characteristic finding of super high blood pressure and spontaneous low blood potassium levels. And so I think the issue was that too few people were thinking about this condition and it was not commensurate with how common it is that was under recognized. I think if you tell most people that up to 14% of people with high blood pressure in a primary care clinic might have a degree of this because it just like high blood pressure itself, it's not a binary. You have it, you don't, but it's rather a spectrum. So you don't have to have a blood pressure of 180 over 110 with a super low blood potassium level to have primary hyperaldo. It's how much are you actually producing and what's the net impact. So you can have it with much milder blood pressure elevations and without low blood potassium levels at all. I think that any of the primary care docs who are listening to this right now, they have over a hundred, they have well over 100 patients in their primary care patient panel who have high blood pressure just because of how common it is, right? Upwards of our, I think around 45 to 47% of adults in the U.S. have high blood pressure, right? So if you take their primary care panel, you know that over 100 patients in their panel have high blood pressure, 14 of those have some degree of primary hyperaldoestronism. I would suspect that anywhere from zero to like two of those might even be detected or suspected. And even for those who are on multiple medicines, including a diuretic and things like that, it is often still insufficiently tested. Maybe because the person also has obesity or they have sleep apnea and people say, think, oh, I have better explanations for why they might have this. And so it's not actually tested. So I think that we think about it too late, not often enough that doesn't match the prevalence of this condition in practice. And again, what I keep coming back to is if somebody needs to meet those criteria to be on all these medicines at high doses, that could take a year or longer for somebody to get on all of those things. And we know that people with primary hyperaldoestronism, even for a similar degree of blood pressure elevation, they have a higher risk of strokes and heart attacks and atrial fibrillation and heart failure and kidney disease. And this is in part thought to be just due to the direct toxic effects of aldosterone, the hormone in the body. And so it's not equivalent to somebody else with the same degree of blood pressure control. We keep coming back to this in different conversations, how you get there matters. So if your blood pressure gets up to a certain level because you're deadlifting, short term, not what I'm worried about, if you have run of the mill high blood pressure and you get up to that level, okay, I'm concerned. If you have primary hyperaldoestronism and you get up to that degree of blood pressure, I'm even more concerned because I know that even for a similar degree of blood pressure, you have a higher risk of having all of these bad complications. And then the other consideration here is that this is a much more straightforwardly treated condition because we have medicines that directly block aldosterone called mineralic corticoid receptor antagonists like spironolactone, a plurinone, et cetera, and some other ones that can have effects on this pathway. Or if somebody has that benign tumor in their adrenal gland, they can undergo surgery, cut it out, and then they're cured of all high blood pressure and they don't need to be on any medicines. I've seen this miraculous effect happen in patients who are found to have those benign tumors, you cut it out and they're cured. I think a lot of patients would take that if you find it. But the only way you find it is if you think about it and you look, and that involves doing this straightforward blood test. And so yeah, ever since I learned about this a few years ago, I said, well, I'm going to start testing this in pretty much everyone I diagnosed with high blood pressure in a primary care setting. I'm not doing it in my hospitalized patients because that's not the right place to be doing that in general for most patients. Once in a rare while, I'll still do it, but not often. And so sure enough, a couple years down the line, now we're starting to see it incorporated into more clinical practice guidelines. And so hopefully this gets disseminated both from the guidelines and from us talking about it here today. Yep. One correction and I'm going to quiz you here on the spot, which I know that you love. Are you aware of the differences between renin and renin? Well, I almost corrected you because I know that nephrologists were going to get triggered, that the correct pronunciation is renin. Yes, exactly. Yes. It's often mispronounced, but I wasn't going to be that annoying. No, no. Yes. So not only when I was doing my masters in anatomy and physiology, the professor was like, I'm sure either I or another one of my classmates said renin because you just see it. It's common. Yeah. And he goes, renins and cows, it's a digestive enzyme that curdles the milk, whatever, and other ruminant animals have it in their gastric juices. Humans, we're talking about renin when it comes to the renin angiotensin aldosterone system. So look, I forget his name, my professor, but if you happen to be listening to this, I'm so sorry. You taught me well. I'm just an idiot. So I don't know what to tell you. All right. Well, no, that's a good summary. Definitely practice changing, I would suspect for many. Yeah. And yeah, so that's definitely important part of this update. Speaking of updates, let's talk about some updated treatments here. So traditionally, treating individuals with elevated or high blood pressure meant starting on a single medication at a standard dose and then increasing that dose as needed to achieve the target blood pressure or blood pressure goal, occasionally adding additional medications as needed. However, new data has been flipping this on its head, which again, if you're a skeptic, you're like, of course, big pharma is coming out with these new studies, we have to use more medications. So Dr. Baraki, why don't you unpack this a little bit? Like, why is this becoming a thing? And like, how does this actually change practice with respect to treating elevated blood pressure? Yeah, this reflects how I've been doing this for a while now and is also a little bit more coherent with a similar approach to how I turn to manage high blood cholesterol levels, at least in patients who are not like ultra ultra high high risk. And one caveat here is that treating high blood pressure also first line, including in every clinical practice guideline that you read, is going to involve all of the lifestyle modifications that we talked about earlier, all of the things that are in our guide on high blood pressure on the website that relates to things like improving the quality of the dietary pattern, getting sufficient physical activity, addressing obesity, sleep, alcohol, things like that. So we have detailed information on that for people. So it's not necessarily jumping straight to a blood pressure medicine, unless you do need to jump to that based on the person's risk and that whole conversation that I discussed earlier. And so, yeah, when I went through training, it was typically just start one med because that's simpler and then you maximize get up to the max dose. And then if you still need more, then you can start a second one. And the idea there was to keep things as simple as possible for patients. We've talked about this a little bit again in the realm of lipid lowering, and I'll readdress it here. But this topic was prompted by a new meta analysis that I believe was published in the Lancet of almost 500 randomized control trials. So 484 RCTs, over 100,000 patients in these trials. And it was basically looking at what is the treatment effect based on different ways of using these blood pressure medicines. So I'll explain this slowly because it is really important to understand. If I start you on a single medicine at the standard dose of that medicine, on average, I'm going to get about 8.7 millimeters of mercury lowering. So that's say for your top number on that blood pressure, on average, across the most common like first line classes of blood pressure lowering medicines, one drug standard dose about 8.7 percent, sorry, 8.7 millimeters of mercury lowering of your blood pressure. If I double that dose, take you from a standard dose up to twice that much. On average, I'm going to only get an extra 1.5 millimeter of mercury lowering of your blood pressure on top of the initial almost nine from the standard dose. So standard dose about nine, doubling that only about 1.5 points more blood pressure lowering. Now what goes up as we tend to double triple quadruple doses is the incidence of side effects. Now in general, these blood pressure medicines tend to be quite safe and don't tend to have severe side effects in most patients, even at higher doses. But at higher doses, side effect risks are going to necessarily go up. Whereas it seems that the effectiveness that I'm getting out of it is diminishing significantly. What if I start you on two medicines up front and both of them are at the standard doses? I'm going to get per this data, these data, 14.9 millimeters of mercury lowering. So about 15. What if I double both medicines? So now you're taking two medicines that double the standard dose, then I'm only going to get 2.5 points additional. So you see a similar pattern here that that additional lowering is significantly mitigated as we crank up the doses. And again, side effect risks tend to go up. What if instead I put you on three different medicines at a quarter of the standard dose? So on one hand, you're like, oh my gosh, can you believe it? They're putting me on three drugs. Well, they're on a fraction of the standard dose. So you're getting a width of three different medicines. I'm already getting 11 millimeters of mercury on less than standard dosing, meaning that side effect risks are even lower. But I'm getting more effectiveness than one drug at the standard dose. And the reason why is different people's blood pressure can be elevated for different reasons. And when we use different treatment methods, different medicines, different lifestyle things, we're essentially attacking the problem of the ultimate high blood pressure from multiple different angles. So some people's blood pressure might be driven a little bit more by their obesity than by their alcohol use. If I address their obesity, then that might have a bigger impact. If I get them to lower their alcohol use, it might have a little bit lesser impact. Somebody else might be the opposite pattern. And so by addressing both of those things, I can have the biggest impact on people's blood pressure. This is a similar phenomenon. Some might be due to sodium retention. Some might be due to vascular constriction. Some might be due to other factors. And so using different medicines that work differently can tend to give us bigger bang for our buck such that we can use even lower doses than might be standard. And we see this most significantly at a quadruple therapy. So four different drugs, but at a quarter of the dose, tiny, tiny little doses can get on average 22.5 millimeters of mercury lowering, which is substantial, really substantial, right? And by using quarter doses, the risk of side effects is trivial at that level compared with using one drug at double the standard dose or two drugs at double the standard dose where that risk of side effects is necessarily going to be a bit higher. So that's the general pattern. I've had plenty of patients with difficult to control blood pressure who I've had this conversation with. And we've ended up opting based on their preferences, whether they said, I only want to take one pill, in which case I might still, there are certain combination single pill products that have two medicines in one pill. And so for them, the act of taking one pill is actually still delivering two medicines, and I might be able to get away with a little bit lower dosing. Whereas others say, I don't really care, I'm willing to take as many pills as you want, but I want to avoid any side effect possible, in which case I'm willing to give them multiple. And then we go with ultra low doses and see a more significant impact that way. Yeah, no, that's a great summary. To me, it kind of, I want to get your take on this, all right? So we know like with exercise and its effect on blood pressure, that when you look at folks with blood pressure levels greater than 140 millimeters of mercury systolic, that endurance exercise alone on average lowers that blood pressure by about eight millimeters of mercury and resistance training on its own tends to lower systolic blood pressure by about eight millimeters of mercury. But when you combine them, it's like 14 millimeters of mercury, which look, it's not purely additive. So there's some overlap like similar mechanisms, but I hadn't really put too much thought into this before. I wonder if they do attack resting blood pressure via different mechanisms, like maybe resistance training primarily focuses on like the elastin component of your arterial system. And then the cardiorespiratory fitness is more of like a vasoconstriction elsewhere or something or salt balance. I don't know, something. I'm just making stuff up at this point. But yeah, it wouldn't surprise me if they were like different mechanisms by which resting blood pressure was lowered. But when you combine the two, you get a bigger effect than either an isolation. So kind of a similar thing here maybe. Yep, totally. That's how I think about all these different lifestyle interventions. And for anyone who's interested in, you know, that was it, that was kind of a detailed explanation. Interestingly, somebody put together a cool website based on this Lancet meta analysis. They call it the blood pressure treatment efficacy calculator. And you just go to BP model dot org, BP model dot org, and you just hit start. And you can put in some numbers and based on the data from that meta analysis, it can essentially predict for you what would be on average the expected treatment effect of any some combination of this of these different treatments. What would be the expected treatment effect of replacing table salt with sodium bromide? Neuropsychiatric devastation. Just just just yeah, bromism. All right, fair enough. All right. Okay, there's also been updates to monitoring specifically with self monitored blood pressure. So taking blood pressure at home. The purpose of this like self monitored blood pressure should be to check for quote true changes in resting blood pressure that ultimately is used to guide either medication adjustments, the initiation of medications, so on and so forth. So if you frequently monitor your blood pressure at home, you know, you want to make sure that if a change is detected that it's a significant change, it's real. It's not an artifact or hallucination and that it correctly informs decision making. So, you know, there's been some update here based on new evidence that's come out. Dr. Baraki, do you want to summarize some of this new data and kind of how this shakes out with respect to clinical practice? Yeah, I came across this paper recently and it also impacted how I think about this a little bit. And to paint a broader picture here, there are a lot of things that can be tested. We've talked about this a lot before. You can test all sorts of blood tests, you can test physiologic parameters like blood pressure, you can test blood sugar. And so you can go absolutely wild with this stuff, right? The extreme example would be getting like a full set of blood tests done every day, right? There would be a lot of noise in that data, right? Your white blood cell count is going up and down hourly throughout the day. Your testosterone level going up in the morning, down into the afternoon, bottoms out in the evening and up and down again. Your cortisol going up and down, your other hormones, your creatinine, your B-Win, your potassium, all these things are changing all the time. And so the question is, what degree of data frequency do we need to make decisions that actually impact people's risk? Because I think it is tempting, especially for those who are more either just maximizers who want to do everything. But also people with medical conditions, it can get to be burdensome to be a patient. There is a phenomenon in the world of diabetes called diabetes distress, where you just are overwhelmed with the sheer burden of all the things that you need to do to manage your condition. And I see this a lot. I see patients who maybe, you know, if you're on insulin, that's necessarily a little bit of a higher risk medicine. And so that often needs blood sugar checks to manage it safely. But I also see patients with diabetes who are not on insulin, who are checking their blood sugar all the time and wanting to change all sorts of things that they do based on checking these things. We've talked about this before, the extreme example being people who don't have diabetes using continuous glucose monitors. And they see a number and they're like, whoa. Yes. And making constant decisions about it. And if, look, if that is your jam, go for it. But it is probably not necessary to achieve the health outcome that we're looking for. And it can lead to a lot of distress or, you know, anxiety. It can lead to a lot of unnecessary attention to things that could be better spent just like, you know, going about your life, maybe forming healthier relationships or doing something else with that time. And so there are people for whom I recommend, hey, we should probably check this less. We don't need to be checking your blood sugar all the time. And the same applies with blood pressure. I think this also is in part because people think that blood pressure delivers its risk on shorter time periods than it really does. So some people think my blood pressure is a little higher today. Am I at higher risk of having a stroke today? Oh, and it's a little lower tomorrow or it's higher during this time of the day, lower during this time of the day. And as we've talked about, this is a cumulative lifelong thing. So the risk of high blood pressure that I worry about is high blood pressure that is present over the course of years to decades, right? It's not that your blood pressure went up this morning and was normal tomorrow morning and was low the day after that. I'm, you know, I'll have to interpret that in a broader context because it would be a poor idea for me to be overly reactive and to change what we're doing based on every single data point. I sometimes see patients who are instructed to take their blood pressure and then only take their blood pressure medicine if their blood pressure is above a certain cutoff. And I'm like, that ain't how this works. That is inadvisable for a lot of reasons and generally is a poor idea. So the idea, you know, we've been talking in this whole episode so far about how important blood pressure is, how it's, you know, it's the leading modifiable risk factor for heart disease, you know, cardiovascular disease complications and premature death. And so you might come away from all of our conversations so far. It's like, oh my gosh, I need to be so worried about my blood pressure. I should be checking it every day or multiple times a day. More is better. And it's like, maybe, maybe not, right? It is very important as a health-related parameter, but that doesn't mean you need it to be monitored constantly, right? The analog of a continuous glucose monitor would be for you to just be like living your life with an arterial line or, you know, a constant blood pressure monitoring device, which we'll get to in a little bit with this Apple Watch and what the potential upsides and downsides of something like that would be, especially if you were paying such close attention to it, that you feel compelled to act on every deviation, right? So if it goes up a little bit, what do you do? If it goes down a little bit, what do you do? That's not really a way to live life. And so what these data that were published recently ultimately showed us just to distill a whole lot of detail down is that a lot of the time, if you're checking stuff really frequently, much of what you are catching is noise and if you space things out a little bit further, you are less likely to get caught up in all of that noise. And so you want to know what is the optimal kind of retesting interval that you should use in order to reflect a true increase or decrease or stability in your blood pressure. And so what they found was that at a six-month retesting interval, if somebody's blood pressure was elevated at that time, it only had a 25% chance of reflecting a true sustained increase in their blood pressure. At 12 months later, an elevated reading had a 65% probability of reflecting a true sustained blood pressure elevation, meaning that there was a third chance that was essentially a false positive reading. There are a couple different ways that you could take this. The first and what I want to make clear is you don't need to be monitoring your blood pressure like every day, right, or even every week. It might be useful early in the process if we're making a ton of active changes to things, but you should not be living your life constantly measuring all of these parameters. The other thing is that in my approach to this, in my practice, when I'm having somebody do ideally high-quality home blood pressure measurements using a validated device and correct technique, I'm not usually making decisions based on a single reading. What some other data has found that we cited in our Guide to High Blood Pressure is that by doing three days of readings, AM and PM, morning and evening and averaging those, that's good enough. And I'll also do that, and then it's going to be a while before I do that again, at which point I might make some modifications to the treatment plan. But we're not doing this every day or multiple times a day indefinitely. And ideally, as you get better control, whether through lifestyle, medicines, both, we can space this out more and more and more, and you can live your life and not have to be paranoid about checking this all the time, which is similar to my approach to other things, be it blood cholesterol levels, be it blood sugar levels, things like that. Yeah, I mean, this is also true of other maybe physiological parameters we see in the training space. Think about body weight or muscular strength. Imagine if every morning, without fail, you step on a scale, which I'm not saying that's a bad thing to do, but like, oh, look, if you weigh above this amount, you don't eat. Yeah, you just don't eat. But if you weigh below this, you get to eat, you know, or a, we're going to take some measure of strength every single day. And until it drops below a certain level, that's when you get to train. But if it's above a certain level, you don't need to exercise, you're good to go. It's just that these short term changes are mostly artifacts of like this normal human variability and like an ebb and flow back and forth. And so you want to make sure that whatever management decisions you're making, in this case, blood pressure, in other cases, body weight, strength, programming, blood cholesterol levels, that you're capturing a real change and one that needs to be acted upon. You can use averages over longer periods of time. So if you do the more frequent measuring, that's okay. But micromanaging it on a day to day basis for most of these variables is probably not the move. Is that fair to say? Yeah, I think that, you know, as somebody myself who has never been somebody who's willing to like weigh, track, or measure macros in my own life, I do my own like auto regulatory strategy tends to be relatively frequent body weights. However, I recognize that there is a range of just noise in that number. And I'm not acting differently based on those every single day. But rather it is there to kind of detect trends and impact things that way. And so if over the course of days to weeks, I was noticing that things were going down and down and down or up and up and up compared with where I wanted to be, then over time that would impact kind of behavior on average. But this is not something where it's like, oh, my weight is up 0.5 kilos today. I'm going to, you know, adjust my daily intake down by this much or up. And then at the same time, if the number was way different than the day before, then I'm going to say, oh, that's probably a false positive, something's wrong with the scale. So it's almost recognizing that there's a range of plausible, you know, outcomes day to day of noise. And outside of that, it's more likely fake than it is real. And I'm not really acting or doing anything differently until I see a sustained trend outside of where I want to be that prompts action. And so that would be a similar approach here. Yeah, quick question. Just to see if you got this in the dome. On average, what is the heaviest human body weight in a given week for most individuals? What day? Sunday morning. Yeah, exactly. Sundays and Mondays and least on Fridays. The range is typically on the order of a few pounds or so about one to 2% of someone's weight, but this can vary by season, holidays, and more. But yeah, there's like a general rhythm and some of that's due to dietary pattern changes. But yeah, things can change significantly as far as like what the scale is able to pick up. But yeah, I thought that was interesting. Okay, let's get into this. Let's get into the final and perhaps maybe most impactful update that people, yeah, yeah, might be coming across might be hearing about. Apple just came out with this new hypertension detection feature for the Apple Watch. Now, as you mentioned early, nearly half of adults in the United States have a diagnosis of elevated blood pressure or hypertension. There's another proportion of individuals who do currently have elevated blood pressure or hypertension who have not yet been diagnosed. And so I don't care to speculate on how many folks are out there, but it's a lot. Yeah, millions of people. And even those who do have high blood pressure, they might not be adequately managed. So this watch and this tool theoretically could be beneficial if it's accurate, meaning is it actually picking up people with elevated blood pressure or hypertension, not giving you a bunch of false positives. So you reviewed this data, we link to the Apple's supplied PDF that has a bunch of their findings. What's your take on how good of a job does the Apple Watch actually do at identifying folks with elevated blood pressure? I would say it's medium. And there's a lot of caveats to this. I'm actually, I have it fully made up my mind on this, but we'll just present the data and maybe we'll come to some degree of consensus here. So yeah, Apple released a PDF that included their data on this that reported overall sensitivity, meaning what proportion of people is it correctly catching with this condition? Overall about 41% of people, meaning that as a screening tool on its own, not awesome. Meaning it's missing a lot of people. So an ideal screening tool would have very, very high sensitivity. It would be very sensitive to detect those with high blood pressure.  at the risk of catching a lot of false positives. And so then typically in most traditional screening practices in medicine, we use an initial high sensitivity tool that catches everyone with it, plus a bunch of false positives. And then in the subsequent step of evaluation, we use a test that is much more specific, and that more specific test will then tell us it'll weed out those who are false positives and leave us with the population who truly have the condition. Based on various variables to include the overall prevalence of this condition in the population, as well as how sensitive this test is, and the other parameter of how specific it is, where it correctly rules out those who don't have high blood pressure, we can get a sense of how well this test performs. So I mentioned that overall sensitivity is about 41%. So about 60 out of every 100 people who have high blood pressure are not, sorry, of all comers who are wearing the watch are not being caught. Now, among those who have higher and higher blood pressure, so those with stage two hypertension, that's the highest kind of cutoff, the sensitivity is better, which you would expect to find. So 53, almost 54% sensitivity in that population. So the higher people's blood pressure gets, the better this test gets at detecting it, which is not terribly surprising. Yeah, but also not great either. You're like, this is the highest cohort, my highest blood pressure measurement. You would expect that sensitivity if the detection software or whatever was very, very good. You would expect that number to be in the 90s. It's like if you set the BMI cutoff right now, the cut point we have for obesity is 30, right? And unfortunately, we miss about half of folks who are carrying too much body fat with that cut point. It's just not low enough to capture individuals who are carrying too much body fat, but don't have a BMI level high enough. So you would set it to like 22. Well, now the sensitivity is 100%, but the amount of false positives that you're getting are substantially increased. It makes for a better quote, screening tool, but then a bunch of folks are like, what do you say? Do you imagine the internet would actually explode? They're like, yeah, you're saying that I'm obese? It's like, well, no, we're just trying to improve the sensitivity of this test, but the specificity would be lower. Yeah, so I mean, for this test, the sensitivity of it is not off. We're missing a bunch of people, but what's the other side of that coin is that what we'll call the specificity, correctly ruling out those who don't have high blood pressure is much better. And you can see that from Apple's perspective, if they took a lot of, you know, doctor's advice to heart and said, we want to limit false positives to reduce unnecessary worry, which is what they describe in their paper, then this is a way to do that. If you don't have a quote unquote gold standard test that has really, really good sensitivity and really, really high specificity, because those combination is rare in diagnostic medicine. And so if they opted for something with, you know, more specificity, then you're not going to freak as many people out because you're not going to have as many false positives, but that comes at the risk of more false negatives, people who are not caught with this. Ultimately, this trend of wearables is a complex space. The Apple watches have long had the ability now to detect things like atrial fibrillation, and that's an abnormal heart rhythm that can lead to consequences, but it has left a lot of doctors in a bind with what do I do with this information when an Apple watch tells me that this patient has had atrial fibrillation, because all of the evidence that we have on how to treat atrial fibrillation comes from an era when we diagnosed atrial fibrillation differently. And so they're just different populations of people who come in, for example, with symptoms of their heart racing beating out of their chest with atrial fibrillation. That's a fundamentally different person than somebody who says, oh, my Apple watch told me I had like 15 seconds of AFib and I didn't feel anything. So we don't have good evidence on that population of should we manage it the same? Do we not? And so I think similarly, if we're going to have a new tool like this, ideally it is a bit better in terms of its accuracy, but also what do we do with this and where we'd have to probably confirm and validate those findings using more traditional blood pressure measurement methods, because that's the evidence base on which our treatment kind of recommendations come from. And so to give people an idea, because we gave a lot of biostatistical numbers, which even makes medical trainees and other physicians eyes glaze over, given that about half the population has high blood pressure, to put these numbers into some real life values, if we test, put Apple watches on 100 people, 20 of them will test positive and have high blood pressure. Nine of them will be false positives. 27 people with high blood pressure will be missed and 44 out of the 100 will be true negatives, meaning they don't have high blood pressure and it will not advise them that they have high blood pressure. So 20 correctly diagnosed with it, 44 correctly diagnosed without it, nine false positives and 27 false negatives. So do with that what you will in terms of deciding, do you like this tool of the Apple watch for blood pressure detection or not? As a clinician, it's not going to be my favorite thing and regardless if I have a patient who tells me that my Apple watch is telling me that I have high blood pressure, I've never had a high blood pressure measurement before, I've never been told I had hypertension, we're going to go through some additional steps to confirm it. I'm not going to jump to immediate treatment based on Apple watch data alone. If this ends up getting more people who have high blood pressure and didn't know it, diagnosed and treated, then maybe this ends up being a net benefit, but it is insufficient on its own for this. In other words, people should still be I think checking their blood pressure on the recommended intervals in other ways in case they are among that 27 out of 100 who might get missed if all they're relying on is just, my watch will tell me if it's a problem. Yeah, I think the best use case I see for this, which is maybe a little interesting from like a social dynamics perspective, is like if you happen to have an Apple watch, but you for whatever reason don't have a primary care physician, you don't interface with your primary care physician and it does happen to detect that you have elevated blood pressure. That's probably a net benefit if it triggers a behavior to go see a doctor for an assessment. I don't know that this replaces like regular blood pressure screening nor should it, but I don't think it's aimed towards that. It's more like a if you happen to be between your intervals of like regular seeing a physician, especially maybe if you're younger, you don't routinely interface with a physician, maybe that's the best use case here. But otherwise, I don't think it replaces either self-monitoring via more validated methods or in-office measurement with your physician. Does that seem fair? Yeah, I think that's fair. All right, well look, I can't say that this is going to be our last blood pressure podcast because that seems unlikely. As stuff continues to change, we'll continue to update you. That's one of the things we like to do here at Barbell Medicine, but we appreciate your attention to listening to our podcast. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. Special shout out to Dr. Hossa Baraki for joining us. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.