 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and today we're going to talk about one of the most common endocrine and metabolic disorders of women that's Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, or PCOS. PCOS is a complex medical condition affecting reproductive, cardiometabolic, and psychological health. While it affects millions of women worldwide, there are many gaps in diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring related to PCOS. In this podcast, we'll cover what PCOS is, how it's diagnosed and treated, and special considerations for diet, exercise, and sport with the help of our very special guest, Dr. Lorraine Baraki. She's the most handsome doctor in North America. She's a board-certified obstetrics and gynecology physician and a lieutenant colonel in the Army. She's also competed in powerlifting, making her one of, if not the strongest obstetrician in the world. What's going on, Lorraine? Hey, Jordan. Happy to be here. I will make one correction that I am but a mere month away from my promotion to lieutenant colonel, but thank you for the early shout-out. It is appreciated. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that there's my knowledge of how the military promotion system works, but, you know, captain to lieutenant colonel, we need to recognize you. Congratulations. Thank you. I appreciate it. Do you think that you're the strongest obstetrician in the world? Jordan, at this time, I have no data that would suggest otherwise. That's a resounding yes. Yeah, I think so. Very confident. Very cool. So this is obviously Dr. Austin Baraki's better half, and she is our resident expert. So we're going to talk about PCOS. We're going to start off with what is PCOS? So, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome or PCOS does not have a universally accepted definition, and the term cis is kind of a misnomer since we're really talking about dormant ovarian follicles in the ovary, not true cis. Still, the syndrome is characterized by three common findings in affected women, such as abnormal ovulation, elevated levels of androgens, like testosterone, and an increase in dormant follicles in the ovaries that look like cis on ultrasound. Now, Dr. Baraki, when seeing a patient who is concerned about PCOS, how do you describe what PCOS is to them? Sure. Well, that's a great question, and unfortunately not a very straightforward question, because PCOS is not one thing. And so a lot of how I answer that is going to depend on what brought them to the clinic in the first place. But to kind of give a better scaffolding for how I would answer, I would just say that the criteria that's used, in this case the Rotterdam criteria that came about in 2003, describes the three elements that you mentioned, ovulatory dysfunction, hyperandrogenism, and then PCO-looking ovaries on ultrasound. And that is a criteria that is says, yes, this is PCOS if two of the three are found in an individual, while also ruling out a variety of other conditions that can potentially explain some of the symptoms that brought the person into the office in the first place. And so I mentioned that because that leads to a little bit of a nuanced approach to how you're going to navigate this conversation with the patient, and also how you are going to pursue this diagnostic workup, because there's not a one size fits all, even in the lab evaluation, for coming to the conclusion that this patient may have PCOS. So that's kind of the quick and dirty rundown of what it can entail, but we can get into a little bit more detail of how that may be individualized. That discussion and the complications thereof, I can appreciate because, yeah, you're right, it isn't just like one thing and why the patient came in as, you know, that's the most important thing to them, not like they're not seeking a diagnosis of PCOS, for example, they're not like, hey, work me up for exactly this. And the workup, as we'll talk about, is a little more nuanced, as you mentioned, but I wanted to go through these three, like, principle or common findings and just make sure that everyone understands them a little more thoroughly. We talk about ovulatory dysfunction. Most resources on PCOS describe abnormal ovulation as like oligoaminorrhea or amenorrhea, and those are two jargon terms that people may not be familiar with, particularly if they're not healthcare professionals. So what does those two terms mean exactly in this context? Sure. So just to break down the Latin of it first, taking the menorrhea portion of it to refer to the menses itself or having a period, and the oligo suggesting a lower than normal amount, or A as in amenorrhea, suggesting the absence of. And so specifically when we use these terms, we are referring to women who have been identified as not ovulating 12 to 13 times in a year, and that is going to be evidenced by irregularities in their menses. That can look a couple of different ways depending on the person, but it can be just the prolonged absence of menstrual flow, or it can be marked by periods of weeks to months of bleeding even, because there isn't any regulatory reset that the event of ovulation is helping to control, and so it can be a little bit chaotic, unpredictable, frequent, and prolonged bleeding. Yeah, that makes sense. And there's also some specific concerns around like transit transition periods in a woman's life, whether that's puberty or perimenopause, for example, because there are norms for how often they should be ovulated, and how regular that should be. And so a person who's being evaluated for PCOS, it's not just like, oh, have you had abnormal menstrual periods? It's more like, okay, how old are you? How far are you removed from puberty, or how close are you to perimenopause? So yeah, it can be more complicated. Exactly. The second common finding that we discussed, and part of the Rotterdam criteria, is this hyperandrogenism, so increased levels of testosterone in a woman, which affects a lot of folks with PCOS. What sort of signs and symptoms does this actually produce in folks who do have PCOS? Sure. So the two big ones that really end up causing quite a bit of the distress that's associated with this syndrome tend to be excessive acne, facial and body acne, excessive body oils in those same areas, as well as hair growth. Specifically in women, we're looking at facial hair growth on the neck, between the breast, periareolar hair growth, thicker hair growth between the thighs, the lower back. And so those are some of the more outward manifestations that can really impact a person's self-esteem, self-image, and contribute to some of that psychological distress, like I mentioned. Some other things that can go along with a hyperandrogenic state, could be deepening of one's voice. It can be enlargement of the clitoris. Those are things that are also going to be queried when a patient comes in and is describing things such as hair growth or excessive acne, because I mentioned earlier that when we're trying to make this diagnosis, we also need to tease out whether there could be other reasons that are causing the patient's symptoms. And so particularly we're interested to know if it can be explained by something much less common, such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia, an adrenal tumor, things along those lines. And so those are the consolation of symptoms that we're thinking about when we are looking to satisfy this criteria or to see if the patient rules in this way. Yeah, so you're describing some clinical manifestations of a biochemical finding, which is excess testosterone in this case. And so you can identify that two different ways, a lab test, and then also just by evaluating the patient. And generally those two things do converge together, but not always. Humans, as it turns out, are complicated. And then the last part of this Rotterdam criteria is this polycystic ovarian morphology, basically saying that the ovaries look a little pickled on ultrasound. And I don't say that to make a joke about this condition, because obviously it can affect folks. But yeah, it is interesting that it's described as being polycystic, but they're not true cysts, which would just be like fluid filled or air filled or substance filled sacs. What they really are are dormant ovarian follicles that have failed to mature. And in other words, they're just hanging out. And so there's like specific cutoffs for how many you see on ultrasound of the entire ovary or per field on an ovary, or even ovarian volume. But really, again, what we're talking about here are like arrested follicles that have not gone through their normal life cycle. So what is that? What is an arrested follicle? And like, why does this matter? Sure. So if we take it way back to the very beginning, when a female embryo is developing in their mother's womb, we actually have the highest number of like precursor eggs that we're ever going to have in our ovarian tissue that's developing. And there are certain milestones that we reach as after at the time of birth, at the time of puberty, when you first have your first period and so on and so forth. And then ultimately to when you reach menopause and you have ovulated your last egg. And at each of these different thresholds or milestones, there's a bit of a culling of the initial population or quantity of precursor eggs, if you want to think of it that way. And these precursor eggs essentially all exist in the tissue of the ovary. And when they meet certain triggers, specifically with hormonal stimulation, they are going to be promoted to grow, they're going to be nourished in little groups and cohorts. And these groups are intended to go through a trajectory of growth and development. And ultimately within each group, what you can expect for a reproductive age female is that you're typically going to have one follicle that is selected to be the follicle that's going to go all the way, if you will. And in this case, going all the way means it's going to reach the point where it's going to be stimulated to ultimately release that egg and to ovulate. And so all of the other precursor eggs in that cohort will undergo degeneration and a breakdown and then it's kind of on to the next cohort and the next cycle of a pregnancy doesn't happen. And so when we're thinking about what we see in PCOS, you think about the cohort that's being stimulated, but they don't get past a certain point. So you don't end up having a leader, if you will, that goes all the way or that goes on to reach the point of ovulation. And you really just have a lot of these follicles that are in between state and they're not waxing or waning, they're not harming you either, they're dormant, like you said. And that's something that's characteristic and that can be observed on the ultrasound. Yeah, no, I like that. Because effectively, you'd want the one that leads them all or there can only be one and it's been fully matured and it's ovulated and under the right circumstances can become fertilized. And look, that's when the stork comes. That's exactly how that works. I think that's exactly how that works. But in PCOS, it's disrupted due to hormonal things that are going on that are not consistent with the normal physiology. We'll cover that. We try to tease out some of the pathophysiology, but first, I wanted to talk about some more of the symptoms of PCOS. Now, PCOS has a bunch of different subtypes and it can present in different ways depending on a variety of factors, like the severity of the condition that the person has, the age of onset, much different from somebody who's an adolescent, fresh out of puberty and somebody who's perimenopausal, for example, and other concomitant health conditions, obesity, for example. Is there a typical PCOS presentation that you see in clinical practice or a common history among patients that come in to be evaluated by you that triggers your spidey senses like, oh, shoot, we might be dealing with PCOS here? Sure. I think before describing it, I will caution any listener to recognize that this scenario that I will describe can sometimes, I think, be a little bit harmful in terms of creating a bias for the clinician and potentially be harmful in the way that may exclude other patients that don't necessarily fit this description. Didn't read the textbook, yeah. Exactly. And so the textbook description or the presenting patient that you think probably has PCOS is going to be someone who is overweight or obese, caveat, not all patients with PCOS are overweight or obese. They are going to have a little bit of extra hair growth that you can see usually like in the upper chin or markedly noticeable acne on the face, but not always. And they're going to be presenting with the chief complaint of either abnormal periods or inability to conceive. And so those are kind of the hallmarks. Regardless of what the patient looks like or what they're presenting with, that's kind of our branch point is saying I have super irregular periods or I've been trying to conceive for six, 12 months or more and have been unsuccessful with the constellation of other things that I mentioned. Yeah, yeah, you're not looking at a patient and just based on their physical appearance and saying, hey, you know what, I'm kind of concerned that you have PCOS absent of any other concerns, the major concerns that would trigger somebody to get motivated to come see that they're obese, problems conceiving, abnormal period, potentially both. And then you can unfold their history and like, oh, well, this all kind of makes sense and I'm going to work you up a little further. But yeah, good caveats there because again, there is no like, I don't know, model patient for this particular condition. That's why I call it a syndrome and not just a syndrome. Exactly. Yeah, there you go. All right. So with respect to epidemiology, like who gets this, how many people does this affect, it affects millions of women globally, and it appears to be increasing. So recent data shows a 54% growth from 1.3 million global cases in 1990 to 2.1 million in 2019, where PCOS affects approximately 10 to 13% of women. Is this what you're seeing in clinical practice, like an increase in diagnoses? And if so, like, why do you think it's increasing? This is really interesting, especially because you've mentioned those dates, particularly as we go back to the original criteria that we used to diagnose. So in 1990, we were still using the NIH criteria, which was a lot more selective. Specifically, the NIH criteria in comparison to the Rotterdam criteria was one that said you necessarily had to have ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism. And the PCO or the polycystic morphology or look of the ovaries was plus minus in this criteria. And going off of an NIH description, then that percentage was about 5% to 8%. And it wasn't until 2003 that the Rotterdam criteria was published and since then has become widely used and has ultimately replaced the criteria per the NIH. And that's what puts us at about 15%. And it's really the inclusion of other factors or capturing women who have different combinations of these symptoms that then end up with this diagnosis of PCOS. So I can't say that there's a particular phenomenon or that something is happening with human population in the last 15, 20 years that is leading to more of this syndrome occurring in women. But rather, I think that we're just capturing more. Yeah, because people are going to see this increase. They're like, oh, look, it's the GMOs, it's something in the water, it's... I told you. We told them, trying to tell you. But yeah, that was my interpretation as well. It seemed like that the criteria for diagnoses and inclusion actually brought in. So you're capturing more people that before would have been plus minus PCOS and now they get that diagnostic label. Exactly. To the extent that's helpful, that's maybe another podcast. But yeah, I want people when they hear that to not think, like, oh my gosh, what's happening to the female reproductive health? Is it the SSRIs? Is it the water? Is it the GMOs? It probably has more to do with the diagnostic criteria and surveillance being a little bit loosened, a little more liberalized than it was. But again... Exactly. Yeah, it's nice to hear it from the expert. All right. Well, yeah, let's continue on here and we'll talk about this diagnosis and walk and work up. We've talked about the Rotterdam criteria a number of times and as you mentioned, it came out in 2003 and you need to have two, at least two of the three criteria here. So you have to have some ovulatory dysfunction. So oligo, amenorrhea, amenorrhea, something like that. You have to have hyperangogenism. So again, increases in testosterone and or these polycystic appearing ovarian morphology, which you see on ultrasound. And so you're using this in clinical practice regularly, but when you're working somebody up, is that that's part of your kind of workflow? Yes, exactly. And so I mentioned earlier that the that diagnostic work up is not going to be the same for every person, specifically for those who are presenting with very pronounced symptoms of hyperangogenism. There are going to be other labs that should be drawn at the same time when we are evaluating for this that are not necessarily required or part of the usual work up for someone who maybe doesn't even report any hyperangogenism or symptoms of it rather, or who just have kind of mild acne or it's quote unquote hormonal acne, things like that, but really no appreciable pursuit ism or hair growth on the face or body. And so that that's kind of where some of the the art comes into play, along with the science to say, does this person require, you know, getting a DHEAS, for example, from the adrenal potential pathology, not every person that has abnormal periods and PCO appearing ovaries needs a DHEAS or a 17 OHP, there's another lab that you may get. And so you really just need to tailor the work up to the individual, because if you just take it like black and white, there's nothing extra or nothing weird else going on like that requires additional investigation. When we're looking at the when we're looking at the clinical finding of hyperangogenism and want to investigate that through a lab, it really should just be through a total testosterone. There is suggestion of obtaining a DHEAS as a surrogate or as another way of determining is this person hyperandrogenemic. But there are not very straightforward cutoffs for determining what is normal or abnormal. There's a lot better clarity in determining a cutoff on DHEAS when it comes to this person could have a tumor or below this number could be normal, could suggest that they have hyperangogenism, and it's just not as helpful. But a total testosterone is a bit of a cleaner test in a tighter window diagnostically to evaluate that part. Getting into the weeds a little bit too, but just total versus free testosterone, just stick to the total because free is going to have more variation as well that that isn't necessarily going to be helpful in making this diagnosis. Yeah, and you can and you can calculate the free as well with the was the free androgen index if you need it. Exactly. Yeah. But it does seem like you're thinking in the back of your head that, okay, look, maybe looks like smells like feels like PCOS, but this particular patient the way they're presenting, I don't know, they might have this non classical congenital adrenal hyperplasia or an androgen secreting tumor or, you know, prolactin just something else. And so you're like, I want to send these other things. But to your point, there's not like a this algorithm, where it's just you follow this exactly, don't ask any questions, don't think about it. There's some art here. Yeah, you mentioned you I just heard you mentioned prolactin. So that also brings us to another branch point too, depending on whether one of their concerns is abnormal bleeding. So if they have abnormal periods, and that's a part of the constellation of symptoms going on for them, then it is important to consider checking a complete blood count to quantify, especially if they're someone who say they have ongoing bleeding. That just persist for weeks and weeks without end. It's important to evaluate their blood count, as well as checking a thyroid stimulating hormone and a prolactin. Yeah. Yeah. And there's and that's just, you know, again, to try to get at this hormonal sort of basis like look like what else could be going on just to make sure. But even within PCOS, there is additional workup because it is associated with all of these other wide reaching effects on the body and its function, specifically around like PCOS related increases in heart disease, metabolic dysfunction, psychiatric conditions and so on. And so the workup is not just like, all right, let's get a test to Ostrone, let's slap an ultrasound on you, and let's ask you about your periods. You also want to make sure that the person's blood pressure has been measured recently. You want to check their lipids, for example, you want to check their weight, their BMI, waist circumference, an oral glucose tolerance test to see if they, you know, what level of insulin resistance may be going on. You are testing the testosterone certainly, but you may also be looking at some of the other hormones that we had mentioned. On the skin exam, you're not just looking for the hair stuff, but also to have they had hair lost some of this androgenic alopecia. Do they have evidence of like acanthosis, nigricans, things like that? And so the list really does go on. I mean, even something like obstructive sleep apnea, women with PCOS have a much higher prevalence of obstructive sleep apnea compared to women that are age matched, but don't have PCOS. And so yeah, the work up here, again, it does highlight the art of medicine, because it's not just like, okay, look, we're testing for these handful of things, just symptom based management, you're really trying to get at, if I can use a term that's getting a lot of buzz, the root cause, like what's going on, and also manage any potential sequelae to the condition. Is this done in batches? Because I'm just imagining like the person comes in, and you're kind of getting their history, you're getting a sense of like, what do you want to do while you're also trying to massage any of these concerns, you don't want to freak the person out. Is this just like, all right, shotgun approach, we're testing everything, come back, and we're seeing you on a second visit, or is this like, meet it out over a longer period of time? So I think that different clinical practices, outpatient practices, probably take a variety of approaches. And it's really a shame, I think, some of the pressures that sub specialists like OBGYNs face, and some of the workload that we're needing to achieve on any given clinic day, I think may pressure some clinicians to take a shotgun approach. I think that in an ideal world, however, whether I think someone has PCOS, or something else entirely, it's really important to establish rapport, set expectations upfront, and to be very transparent about the fact that the evaluation and the time spent reviewing results, and in interpreting those results, and applying them to the individual as you develop a patient-centered plan of care, is something that really should take several appointments. And while an individual's time is valuable, hers and mine, if we say that upfront, I think that it helps to decrease a lot of the angst and the distrust and the frustration that a lot of patients tend to feel. Because I can be upfront and say, this matters to your health, and you matter to me, and I want to help take care of you. It's going to take time if we're going to do a good job of this, and also understand that if PCOS is the conclusion that we come to in this case, it is a chronic condition. It is not something that we're going to establish treatment plan for, and that we're going to fix, quote unquote, not to say that you are broken, but we're going to have to address your goals and priorities, and also identify risks, and continually think about how we're going to mitigate those risks lifelong. It also is nice in that we don't want people to have to spend their entire life in the doctor's office and go to the ends of the earth to access health care, but if there's a silver lining to all of this, you have more opportunities to interface with the patient, and when it comes to mitigating long-term risks and improving long-term quality of life, having more opportunities to get your foot in the door and come up with a shared plan, it does seem like that's much better than like, I'm going to see you once, I'm going to give you a prescription and then be gone, go on, go forth and prosper. And unfortunately, I tend to see a lot of that secondarily when a patient then represents later on, or maybe they moved another establishing care again, and I just hear tales of, you know, patients being told that they had to do this particular treatment plan, and that was it, and they didn't understand why, and they're scared of that treatment plan, or they don't fully understand it, so they don't like it, so they don't want to do that, and so it really sets the stage for a little bit of an uphill conversation, but that person in front of me deserves to understand what's going on with them, and and if they will confide in me and give a little bit more time, I do appreciate the opportunity to do that over several visits. Yeah, yeah, it seems like that has the opportunity, at least the potential to work better, although as the amount of appointments increases, there's, you know, some level of attrition that happens, and so I can see that being a double-edged sword. Yeah. When we talk about PCOS, you know, invariably people are going to ask, well, what causes it? You know, what's the path of physiology? What, you know, what really is the root cause, again? And unfortunately, we don't have a great answer for you, and, you know, we could write it off as simple as that and say, yeah, sorry, but we don't understand this completely, but I think we can get at a potential better understanding when we talk about this increased production of androgens by the ovaries and its subsequent disruption in the normal feedback loop that traditionally goes on between the hypothalamus, the pituitary, and the ovarian glands. I mean, that's happening on some level, and as you alluded to earlier, you know, normally females are born with like what, one to two million follicles, and then by the time they hit puberty, it's 400 to 500,000. And then it gets less and less, and, you know, what is the difference in normal physiology during a menstrual cycle compared to  and some body with PCOS. Because I think if we can identify, like, look, traditionally we have these hormone changes, that's what normally happens. And then an individual with PCOS, these are the hormone changes that we're seeing, and this is kind of why that cycle starts, and it's almost like a positive feedback loop that continues to progress unchecked. Sure, so it's a bit tricky to describe with words alone, and is often best supplemented with a diagram or a graph. We need that one picture. One that, yes, with all the little peaks and troughs and all the roller coasters that tends to show us the relationship between estrogen, progesterone, luteinizing hormone, and follicle stimulating hormone throughout a normal, quote unquote, 28 day menstrual cycle that demonstrates essentially a lower estrogen state in the first half of the cycle and as the follicles are being stimulated, you see increases in follicle stimulating hormone, and then about halfway through this cycle, there are triggers that lead to a surge or a spike in the luteinizing hormone. That spike is associated with the ovulation event, and after which time there is an increase in estrogen production, and all of these, mili-u of hormones are interacting with each other and causing a variety of different actions, reactions there in this feedback loops. And so if we take it back to kind of one of the, one of the fundamental elements of PCOS is this oligo or an ovulation, then what we take from that is that you don't have a normal low LH until it's time to spike. You don't have a period where there's lower estrogen than higher estrogen or lower progesterone and then higher progesterone, and there's a bit more of a static state where it is more of an estrogen predominant state more persistently without having that interaction to fluctuate and to kind of switch places with progesterone as a progesterone dominant state in that part of the menstrual cycle. And so, and that leads to one of the risk factors that we'll talk about here in a moment, but additionally, the LH itself is kind of at a steady state too. So it's not peaking when it should, so it's not triggering that follicle to ovulate, and that was preceded by follicle stimulating hormone, not behaving normally to encourage that cohort to progress and so on and so forth. And so you do find these periods of more static hormonal statuses, which also speaks to the lack of utility of kind of measuring these things at any point in the workup because none of those levels are gonna be diagnostic or really helpful. What's helpful is listening to a person's story, like what they're actually experiencing. If they're telling you they're bleeding, you can tease out more to determine whether it sounds like they are ovulating or not. And just as a plug to kind of get that out of some folks mind that we don't need to be measuring every single hormone at play here, just recognize that they are not interacting normally and therefore the downstream effects are something that you experience and that you can glean through an interview with the patient. I think when people are trying to wrap their head around this again and before we went on air, I was like, man, just trying to figure out this pathophysiology, if I could just understand it better then I can understand the condition better and you're like, not really. I'm like, I know, but I just want to, just to summarize for folks, there is this complex interplay between FSH, LH, estrogen, progesterone, there's a bunch of others, players there too, and they cycle in this very complex orchestrated month long, journey to ultimately produce a viable follicle and then look if that doesn't get fertilized. Well, you got some changes on the back end of that too. That's the quote, normal physiology, but instead of having these cyclical cascade of multiple things happening, it's pretty much static the whole way through. And if you had to take home one thing, it's like, well, LH is way too high and FSH is way too low and because LH is high, you get a bunch of weird things that happen. Testosterone levels are higher, and androids and dione, these are precursor, prohormone to more testosterone-like hormones that those end up being higher. And so the outcomes from a hyperandrogenism standpoint, almost predictable, you're like, well, shoot, if my testosterone, my androids, you know, steen dione is higher and all these things are higher and FSH never gets as high as it should be. I don't get this ovulation event. Well, shoot, I'm gonna have all these dormant follicles, I'm gonna have all this excess testosterone and oh, shoot, dang, that's kinda, that's PCOS. Now, I don't wanna reduce PCOS to just that because it's much more complex, but I think if you wanted to wrap your head around it, like maybe you could do worse, you could do worse than that. Do you agree with that? I think you did pretty well, yeah. That's a great summary. I spent a lot of time on OB. With respect to risk factors, here's where it starts to get a little weird in my mind because there are significant risk factors that are like independent of PCOS, the condition itself. And then there are ones that not only contribute to PCOS, like having it, but also like contribute to the severity of the condition. And so just to give an example, like genetics, certainly genetic targets, mostly having to do with like sex steroid, hormone signaling, ovarian follicle, maturation, insulin production and activity, those sort of things. There's a lot of genetic targets here that when combined, it's not a single gene, one weird gene is contributed, but it's polygenic. That doesn't, it influences the likelihood of somebody developing PCOS and their course, but that static, it doesn't really change over time, whereas something like obesity, you have a higher risk of not only experiencing PCOS, but the worst the obesity is also tends to make it more severe too. So it's kind of like works in both ways. When you think about risk factors and a patient, environment where you're explaining this to them, do you bring up risk factors at all? Or is it more like it's in the back of your head, trying to stay like, oh, this makes more sense why this person's experiencing this? Sure, so the main risk categories that my counseling will cover includes endometrial risks. We talk about metabolic health. We talk about psychological propensity towards stress, depression and anxiety. We essentially tie those into, like you said, it can be linked to or tied into the diagnosis of PCOS. In other words, we're gonna talk about mitigating risk and also addressing some of their symptoms that are part of their diagnosis. Or independent of their symptoms say you have PCOS and therefore going forward, you do have an increased risk with regard to your metabolic health and your health outcomes. And so we talk about healthy, establishing what their baseline for physical activity is and healthy weight and some strategies to achieve that as well as in terms of the endometrial health, we talk about how we can try to prevent basically an excess of endometrial stimulation. So what do I mean by that? I mentioned that in PCOS, it tends to be a higher estrogen state and especially if you are not having a period on a regular basis, that means that the uterine lining or the endometrium is not shedding regularly and therefore has the opportunity to overgrow essentially what we would call hyperplasia. And hyperplasia exists on a continuum, which can lead to basically like a precancerous condition and ultimately endometrial cancer. And so this is not to say that anyone with a PCOS diagnosis will have or might have endometrial cancer, it totally depends on what their menstrual patterns are, how often they are having withdrawal bleeds and whatnot. But we talk about strategies for either regulating or just suppressing endometrial growth. And then to address the psychological risks, I think it's important to just take a step back and to identify the individual as just a whole person that is there to see me for this one thing, but it's really not just one thing. And depending on what their goals are or what their concerns are, what their insecurities are, what their hopes and prospects for whatever the future may hold, whether it includes fertility goals or not, whatever the case may be, it's important to just recognize that they are a whole person and to encourage just behavioral health resources to just have the opportunity to talk through these things. Cause I just mentioned that it's a chronic disease as well or a chronic syndrome, I should say. And so those are kind of the big categories for risk identification and mitigation. Circling back to the healthy weight part, I did wanna mention that in patients who are overweight and obese, who do have some weight loss, that it is quite common to see improvement in symptoms, specifically symptoms of abnormal bleeding. So it is quite common to experience normalization of menses with five to 10% weight loss of adipose, as well as improving fertility outcomes as well because if I regulate your menses, well, not me directly, but if your menses regulate because you had some weight loss, then that is telling me that you are probably ovulating on a more regular basis. And the more often you are ovulating, and if you are engaging in unprotected intercourse, then the more likely that pregnancy can happen if that's what you desire. The store comes, that's what you're saying. That's exactly what I'm saying. Yeah, I actually, this is a good segue cause I didn't wanna belabor the point too much on weight management, body fat management, body composition, or even obesity, generally speaking, mainly because in my coming up with this outline and working on this and relearning a lot of stuff that I had selectively blocked from my medical training, I became acutely aware that as far as obesity stigma goes or which weight stigma in general goes, PCOS may be like one of the most affected medical conditions by that. And I don't mean that just from like a general populist standpoint, but even amongst medical professionals, they see an individual with PCOS and the person may be overweight or have obesity, for example, and they're like, oh, well, just lose weight. Just lose weight, you know? And it's like, well, that may, in some cases, yeah, lead to a big improvement in the symptoms and help them reach their goals, whether it's fertility or otherwise, but the actual effect of obesity on this condition is far more complicated than that. And there's been a lot of research into this. Are the appetite-promoting hormones significantly higher in individuals with PCOS? Are the satiety or fullness hormones that people experience as they eat and when they can finish eating a meal? Are those lower? Right, is that what's tripping off this propensity to gain weight at a faster rate than individual without PCOS or have more difficulties with weight management? Yeah, not really. There's been a lot of investigation here, but my point on saying all this is that we haven't had great treatments for obesity previously. It's mostly like, hey, have you considered exercise or eating differently? And it's like, yeah, my whole life I've been trying this. And we've been limited with opportunities to intervene otherwise. And having gone to medical school together, Dr. Fangbom and I, we're speaking from the same era and literally from the same learning environment, but we now, me as a board certified OBGYN, we don't come into this specialty and are armed with extra knowledge or information on how to effectively handle this particular topic. And it is something that I think that each of us need to take upon ourselves to stay in the know and to stay up to date with any other ways that we can approach this topic without coming off like in a paternalistic way or an overly reductionist tone to the patient too, because it's not her fault that she has PCOS and while some weight loss can help with the symptoms, any weight gain that she has experienced is not the result of her in activity or sloth or decision to gain weight, whatever the case may be. And honestly, we just need to get smarter on how to address this in a multidisciplinary way and a multifactorial and really like in a biopsychosocial way. I mean, obviously I know that it's been discussed on this podcast and a lot just on the interwebs in general, but obviously with various weight loss medications that are becoming more and more popular. I did want to mention just that with GLP-1 medication specifically that like with a lot of things in reproductive health or pregnancy in general, it's important to recognize that the side effect of some weight loss in a person who has had fertility issues can be increased fertility because of like a downstream effect ultimately, leading to ovulation, leading to that opportunity for the stork to come. And so, and at this point in time, we don't have any safety data really. We're in the information gathering phase for that. You may have heard of some ozympic babies and the like. There are registries for these things. So it's one of those things that I think that as time goes on, there will be more and more and we'll be in a position to try to speak on the safety and efficacy of that in the preconception timeframe, but for now, if someone's trying to conceive and you're on a GLP-1, it's advised to come off of it for a couple of months. And then the other thing I wanted to mention is just when it comes to weight loss surgery. That's another thing that is not really heavily anchored in our curriculum, just in medical school in general and certainly not like an OBGYN training, but I am a surgeon and I have patients that can absolutely benefit from at least having a discussion with a bariatric surgeon to talk about some of the benefits of potential weight loss surgery and just the myriad of health considerations that we can positively impact through that. Yeah, it's a great segue into our break. When we come back after this, we'll talk more about PCOS and how to treat it. We're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast with Dr. Lorraine Baraki, the most handsome doctor in North America. She's a board certified of Cetrix and Gynecology Physician. Again, we're talking about PCOS and now how to treat it. So we're gonna start with lifestyle stuff here. And when it comes to lifestyle-based treatments, for PCOS, weight management is a big component for nearly all published guidelines. Now, most of these guidelines acknowledge that the rate of weight gain and the prevalence of obesity are higher in those with PCOS compared to those without. And in addition, excess body weight and body fat appear to increase the risk of not only developing PCOS and PCOS related symptoms, but also increasing the severity of those symptoms. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is when it comes to lifestyle-based treatments for both PCOS and weight management in general, exercise is at the top of the list. Now, recent studies show that individuals with PCOS tend to engage in similar levels of physical activity and exercise as those who don't have it. But the problem with that is most people are not meeting the current physical activity guidelines. Most people are not exercising. So when it comes to counseling individuals with PCOS on exercise, how do you start this conversation? I would argue that it doesn't differ too much from anyone. That's a perfect response. Yeah, that is my answer, is just that there's not a special treatment or a special approach or a special program that applies to patients who have been diagnosed with PCOS and that general health guidelines and general physical activity guidelines apply to this population as it does to anyone else. With the understanding that the prevalence of insulin resistance is quite a bit higher in this population and goes back to the conversation of expectation management and just acknowledging some things upfront, including the fact that achieving your weight loss goals can and usually are a bit more difficult and our timelines probably need to stretch out a bit more. But it's important to be encouraging and to not take those factoids as deterrence to getting started or to even moving in that direction. Yeah, yeah, this actually brings up a bigger, maybe we'll call it a barbell medicine point if I can be so bold. Well, because people invariably will say, look, I have this medical condition, what specific exercise prescription do I need to undertake? And in the majority, but not all, certainly not all, of cases, medical conditions, there's not really a unique secret sauce here when it comes to exercise prescription. It's generally the same as somebody who did not have that particular condition and PCOS is exactly like that. There's not a particular look, they need a particular split, particular amount of exercise or anything like that. We want people to first achieve this sort of minimum amount of exercise that's consistent with the current physical activity guidelines and generally speaking, more would be better. We effectively want people to be as active as humanly possible where the limitations are really logistics and then their physiological tolerance to exercise. The limit does not exist. The upper limit does not exist. But if there's anything that's unique about this particular situation with PCOS, to my mind, it's mostly that we can use some of these long-term risks that are associated with PCOS as leverage during motivational interviewing. And that also tends to bolster people's understanding of the condition. So for example, you mentioned insulin resistance and you're like, look, insulin resistance is associated with the condition that you have. It can lead to type two diabetes. It can lead to increased rates of heart disease. It can lead all these other things. Exercise is a very potent tool that we can use to limit that, attenuate that or even in some cases, reduce it back to what would be considered like baseline. baseline. Same thing, body image improvement. If that's a big issue with a particular patient, their mental health, there's just so many levers that you can pull. And again, these aren't really unique to PCOS because this would otherwise be true of anybody. But because it is pertinent to this condition, you could use that theoretically in this motivational interviewing process. But there's not a specific, I'm not gonna release a PCOS template. Like, look, here's the training that you need to do. It would more, if I did do something like that, if we collaborated and did something like that, it would look a lot like the rest of our exercise programs. We would just have more information about PCOS and how like, this would benefit you. And so that would be the template, but the template would it look really any different than a general template for strength conditioning that we'd release to the public? Absolutely. So buyer beware for that one. Yeah, that one's a great trick. Yeah, just for you. Yeah, if somebody's putting out stuff that's like, look, you gotta do this exercise, the PCOS patient. Like that's the red flag. If it's to lure people into this, get more physically active thing than maybe, I don't know that you need to use misinformation to get there, it seems a little sketch. So that's so good about that. Doesn't make me feel good, no warm and fuzzies from that. But maybe more important to this population with respect to exercise. Now there's little data available on exercise counseling and prescription practices delivered to individual PCOS. But if you go to other medical conditions, whether it's heart disease, whether it's individuals with obesity, whether it's diabetes, unfortunately, you see the exact opposite of what you would want to see from like a public health perspective. If anything, you'd want folks with these chronic medical conditions and risks to be counseled more frequently on exercise than folks who are otherwise healthy. Of course, you'd want everybody to be counseled, but if you had to choose, you would want folks who stand to benefit the most, the most vulnerable populations. So the question to you, Dr. Baraki, is do you think that exercise is being discussed with the majority of patients with PCOS? I do not. I absolutely do not. Why do you think that is? Do you think it's because this syndrome is so complex and to your point earlier, multiple sort of appointments and multiple, like a pretty extensive workup and there's a lot of comorbidities going on? Is it because of the complexity or is it because doctors, look, we just don't know anything about exercise and so we don't know what to do? I think it is twofold. I think that the thing one would be that there is so much to cover and there is so much on the interviewing and the exam side of the house that is gonna take up time so that you can find yourself in a diagnostically appropriate place to then recommend a way forward for working this patient up and then there is all the different interpretations and how do we apply meaning to these things? What does this mean to you? That by the time we get to treatments or interventions, we can be very well-passed to a normal appointment time. At that point and the plate is very clinically full. It's not a great excuse, but I suspect that it is a very common cause for that to be nixed. And the other thing is that we tend to avoid the things that we don't feel super competent in just as humans and that applies to physicians and healthcare providers as well. So that's thing too is just that if we are not trained or don't feel super savvy in what to tell a patient that is meaningful or actionable, don't feel super confident in that, then we're typically gonna skip over those things or leave them out or at the very most maybe provide a handout or a resource or something like that. That's not individualized or tailored to the patient. So I think it is both of those things synergizing to lead to that. So if you're a fitness professional, listen to this and you have a client with PCOS, standard exercise prescription techniques apply. What amount of exercise are they willing to do or can they do based on their previous or current fitness level and resources? What types of exercise do they wanna do? You come up with a shared sort of plan for how that all shakes out. And ideally that at least meets the current physical activity guidelines of twice weekly resistance training for all major muscle groups. And you're doing at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity. That's cardio, only counts as cardio. And that's where you start. And ideally you'd get them to do more and you'd monitor the results. Ideally you'd like a program that makes them stronger. Ideally you'd like them to be doing a program that makes them more fit from a cardio respiratory standpoint and you go from there. But there's no specific PCOS related concerns to ooh, don't have them do back squats because or don't have them do supersets because or something like that. That's, there's nothing really, really there. So you can feel confident in your exercise prescription techniques provided that you're actually doing it. And that message is to our healthcare professionals. Make sure that if you don't feel comfortable doing it, no hate comms, peace and love, but a referral would be appropriate in that case. I did wanna bring up something interesting. And I don't, I don't know that you're gonna have expertise here but I don't wanna like, you know, box you in. But this is, I thought this was interesting. It's about PCOS in sport. All right, so the proportion of women who engage in sports at all levels is at an all-time high. It's increased dramatically over the past 50 years. And this is reflected in the proportion of female Olympic athletes. This is probably one of the cohorts we have the most data in. So for example, in the summer Olympics in Munich in 1972, only 15% of all participants were women. In 2012, the London Summer Games, that increased to 44%, but it wasn't until this past Olympics, 2024 Paris Games that we finally reached the 50-50 thing. We're half of all competitors. Hey, finally. Thanks, good. Yeah, it's okay. Also, by the way, if you're keeping score at home, London 2012 was the first Olympic Games where women competed in all disciplines that men competed in. So just if you're keeping score at home about opportunities to participate in sport and how that may affect participation rates, well, there you go. Here's where it gets interesting. Amenorrhea and hyperandrogenism are far more common in female athletes than in non-athletic female populations. And in addition to that ultrasound evidence of polycystic ovaries are again far more prevalent, about 37% of female athletes, compared to the prevalence in the general population, which is about 20%. And so at the time of this recording, there's limited evidence comparing the true rate of PCOS in female athletes, but it does seem a bit higher. So in your opinion, Dr. Baraki, is it possible that there's an athletic advantage to having PCOS? Like is it the hyperandrogenism, for example, that may be advantageous or something else? Any insight there? I will acknowledge to your point that you're right, I am not an expert in this very specific question, not being boxed in, but I think that it's a very interesting finding. It is certainly hypothesis generating and it takes us back to questioning or just looking at the diagnostic criteria, looking at the Rotterdam criteria, to evaluate whether any of these individual components can be clinically reasonably explained by some other physiology or pathophysiology. And also kind of highlights the place that we find ourselves in that we have found ourselves in for decades now is basically like a chicken or the egg situation where is the insulin resistance leading to increased levels of LH, which is leading to ovulatory dysfunction and also just circling back to more insulin resistance and increase adipose and higher weight and obesity and cardiometabolic outcomes. Is that the cycle that we're in or are there offshoots of this equation that are operating with a completely different rule book? Which I have to believe that it may be more the latter, but it's certainly interesting query and worth further investigation to know, are we on the same continuum or are we so far down in a different branch entirely that we're just seeing similar findings but how we got there is quite different? Yeah, so I'm gonna present two hypotheses. Oh, okay. And you get to pick one. Okay, sounds great. With the full understanding that both could be wrong, to your point, I agree, more research needs to be done and ultimately this is a twud. It's a time wasted on useless detail, but like, could be used. Maybe, yeah, maybe not. Look, could be used as leverage during the motivational interviewing process for activity. Like, look, you got PCOS, you could be a world beater. Going to the very top. So here are the two hypotheses, right? Hypothesis number one, this is a teleological or evolutionary based argument for PCOS. Like, hey, why does this thing persist in populations? Why? What the heck's going on? So is it the relatively high testosterone had conferred some sort of survival advantage to women in ancestral environment?  amylodipines, because they had increased strength, reduced fracture risk, and maybe the insulin resistance was actually adaptive to ameliorate some of the signs of low energy availability, for example, because that can happen. So maybe this is like, look, it just persists and now our ancestral environment, the closest thing we can get to is sport and so women who are selected into sport, you know, they thrive. So that's hypothesis one. Sure, just to add a little bit more to hypothesis one, I have heard a semblance of that and there's also a layer of war and famine and this mortal threat and also tying that into fertility or relative infertility and basically being a manifestation of basically genetics getting it right and saying this is not a great time to reproduce. To reproduce exactly. All right, so that's hypothesis one called the evolutionary hypothesis and then the second hypothesis is the artifact hypothesis. So for example, amenorrhea being common is not surprising in sport due to the high volumes of intense training perhaps with insufficient fueling and the types of people that end up selecting themselves into sport and same thing for hyperandrogenism people with particularly women with high volumes of exercise and sport tend to have higher testosterone levels mainly in comparison to their levels of estrogen which tend to be lower right and so proportionately there's this hyperandrogenic type state and so maybe these are just artifacts of participating in sport for a long period of time at a high level with high levels of training and not sufficiently fueling because various body types, body compositions are selected for in sport and so you have to maintain that. So that's hypothesis too this artifact thing it's like we're seeing similar signs and maybe biochemical findings to PCOS but they're more reflective of the person's general practices in this case in sport but it's not PCOS. Sure, I of the two I certainly do find hypothesis number two to be more likely just based off of that energy equation imbalance if you want to call it that and how that affects the hypothalamus and how that's affecting downstream signaling to your ovaries and so on and so forth and how that manifests in not having a period for example as well as looking at individuals who for one reason or other typically a genetic predisposition to adapt very well to high levels of intense physical activity in the sport or that sport also tend to express more in the realm of a higher circulating androgens and and so it's just kind of happenstance exactly and then we see it or catch it so to speak because they're highly visible because they are performing at such a high level at such an elite level and so therefore presenting these artifacts that you mentioned. Yeah well look if you're listening to this you made it this far in the podcast and you got a hot take or even if it's a tepid take let us know weigh in comment you know helps the algorithm anyway but we want to know is it takes only is it evolution or is it artifact maybe or or option c neither and your bunch of idiots and move on fair fair all right so that's the exercise that's the story on exercise we want everybody who is able to exercise to exercise and that certainly includes individual individuals with PCOS trying to get them to not only meet the physical activity guidelines but to more than that if possible and no specific exercise considerations other than starting and maintaining that those are the real considerations here now moving on to dietary interventions so similar to exercise and its effects on PCOS related health risks dietary interventions are also heavily promoted in nearly all PCOS guidelines now despite individuals with PCOS having a higher prevalence of obesity most evidence shows that women with PCOS have comparable total energy and macronutrient intakes as individuals without PCOS now despite that it is unfortunate that there's a widespread misinformation campaign and promotion of specific dietary compositions that are designed to treat PCOS particularly on social media most of these lacking evidence and in fact if you go to the evidence you'll see that there's a wide range of macronutrient compositions and dietary patterns that can be used to improve health and quality of life in individuals with PCOS so the question to you Dr. Baraki is how do you discuss changing nutrition with your PCOS patients and is there any difference in how you would approach that conversation with any other type of patient yeah this answer does mirror the exercise answer a lot but just like with exercise if we're starting out with nothing then we want to trend towards something and ultimately get to a place where we are meeting and ultimately exceeding the movement guidelines and recommendations so when it comes to diet like you said there isn't a single PCOS diet it has been queried time and time again it's been looked at and folks certainly want to promote and usually sell some kind of diet that they've slapped PCOS onto but the reality is is that at this time we don't have compelling evidence that tells me that there is a unique composition like macronutrient composition or micronutrient composition in the diet of someone who has PCOS that will be more effective at healthy weight loss or optimizing anything else under the hood so to speak that's going to impact their symptoms there are some investigations and some recommendations based off of not great data of some supplements talking about things like chromium and acetal things like that which and particularly in acetal the thought being that it can help to improve sensitivity insulin sensitivity specifically there there are a few things like that that pose a very low potential for harm and might demonstrate a marginal response so far there's not an overwhelmingly you know compelling response that tells me that anyone that has PCOS needs to be supplementing with x, y, or z at this time and so essentially my discussion with someone with PCOS is the same discussion as someone without PCOS that's in my office for something else but also has obesity and we're talking about some strategies to to increase fiber intake to identify and ultimately decrease saturated fats in their diets and increase mono and saturated fats and just look at the overall balance between their macronutrients but not to say that there is like a perfect recipe for PCOS specifically yeah a large variety of dietary interventions are going to work here and they've been studied almost to the nth degree you know whether it's very low calorie diet low calorie diet very low carb ketogenic high carb but it's all it's all there it's all been studied and yeah there's no one diet to rule them all mainly you would want to involve the patient whatever their preferences are for a dietary pattern what they have access to and it focused on minimally processed foods lean proteins fruits vegetables whole grains high fiber you know limiting foods with added sugars especially sugar sweetened beverages the standard dietary pattern recommendations to the extent somebody can do that modifying the food environment eating environments and we've discussed at length on this podcast however i'm gonna i'm gonna push back just a little bit on what both of us have said so talking out of both sides of my mouth there are in my mind to my mind three maybe unique concerns with respect to the diet for a person with PCOS the first one being that there are generally speaking higher rates of disordered eating amongst individuals with PCOS and so that may deserve its own particular not only work up but subsequent management by a specialist a registered dietitian who has expertise in this and you may not pick that up initially especially if you're not listening to the patient so ideally you're you're listening to women yeah again the second thing i would bring up is that there does tend to be a lower baseline dietary quality in those with PCOS now this doesn't really affect management because when we talk about dietary quality and how it's measured these are just standard indices a healthy eating index for example is one of them and so your recommendations don't really change it's just a a maybe a bigger gap to go from your average PCOS patient compared to somebody without but again it doesn't really change what you prescribe or what you recommend but more so like how much effort it may take to get there and there are multiple contributors to that you know why that is in the first place and the third thing perhaps the most actionable thing here with respect to dietary interventions for PCOS to my mind is this idea around chrono nutrition but this isn't PCOS specific it's more like insulin resistance specific and so individuals with insulin resistance whether it's uh you know the run of the i hate to call it run of the mill but it kind of is like type 2 diabetes something like that metabolic syndrome or in this case PCOS there does seem to be a benefit to time restricted feeding but not what most people think about when I say those words when I say time restricted feeding people jump to intermittent fasting and then the way most people think about intermittent fasting is that oh you skip breakfast and then you have a big lunch you're eating windows like 1 pm to 9 pm right you just eat throughout the rest of the day and that's how you do it and there's been a bunch of weird mechanisms that people propose look you you're fasting autophagy in the beginning of the day and ultimately the way that works as far to the extent that it does is that it gives people less opportunity to eat if they follow it and so calorie restriction but in this particular case time restricted feeding is flipped the incomplete other way where most of the calories are consumed earlier in the day less later in the day and it seems like there's some circadian rhythm some bio rhythm related processes that this helps regulate a little bit better in individuals with metabolic syndrome or insulin resistance and so if you were trying to like ratchet things up to the nth degree person's already eating a health promoting dietary pattern they're exercising like crazy and they're like what else can I do lifestyle wise you could suggest hey look if dinner is your biggest meal of the day right perhaps if you flip that on its head where breakfast is a bigger meal lunch is a bigger meal and dinner is a little bit less that may work a little bit better in this particular setting um caveats to that include if somebody's working out at night that's all off the table like just doesn't doesn't seem to matter and the effect of doing this is not like crazy big where it's gonna completely change somebody's life but if somebody was looking to pull every possible lever that is maybe a unique consideration for an individual with PCOS sure okay all right no disagreement I love that let's do it yeah well the final anything anything we can add to the old toolbox yeah there you go yeah you have uh more arrows in your quiver uh yeah we went Renaissance fair on that the last thing I wanted to talk about here were actual treatments for PCOS with respect to like medical management and perhaps even surgical interventions and so you know if you go look online and you have access to to some of the professional materials you'll see different groups or categories of of medications so everything from contraception androgen blockers certain metabolic uh uh care type medications like metformin for example things related to pregnancy and fertility um and so just briefly can you give us a general lay of the land when you have a patient that you have diagnosed with PCOS you've gone through the whole work up um when you start thinking about our medical management where do you start and what are some common things that you end up uh using in these patients yeah so before I invariably end up with my foot in my mouth and start talking about a particular treatment strategy or a path if you will I always always always try to remember to get their goals written down upfront um because I can counsel and counsel and counsel until I'm blue in the face and and whatever I've counseled them on is just not consistent or not compatible with what their goal is and we just waste it a lot of time and so um so super important to not only ask the individual what are the things that concern you the most and what are your goals and so particularly if they're not sure what kind of goals I'm referring to I will then specify um do you want to become pregnant um in the near term um or would you say that your primary goal is to regulate your menstrual bleeding if that is one of their presenting um concerns is irregular bleeding or absent menses for long periods of time because that's going to take us down to very different pathways because if I'm talking about regulating menstrual cycles it will involve some form of a recommendation for a hormonal contraceptive it's going to be mainstay being oral birth control pills doesn't have to be that and I can explain some of the the the differences there but obviously if we are addressing your bleeding it's going to be with something that prevents pregnancy usually and if your goal is to become pregnant then we need to go in a different direction entirely um with regard to um hormonal birth control I mentioned the oral form specifically um and that's going to be the mainstay for that individual that has um clinical signs and features of hyperandrogenism um that have the acne oily skin perhaps herstism um as well as irregular bleeding patterns um from that ovulatory dysfunction um the thought being that if you take the pill that has a synthetic estrogen in this case um ethanol estradiol combined with a uh progestin um then we are seeking to uh have that pill be processed like at the level of your liver and once um it is um absorbed and processed there then you are ultimately going to produce more sex binding uh sex hormone binding globulin you can think of that as um something that is produced by the liver that circulates in your blood and that will grab up any free testosterone circulating endrogens and it will bind to them and when those things are bound then they don't have the opportunity to uh bounce around the rest of your body and to have some of those outward effects that you see such as the acne the oily skin the herstism and whatnot um and so if you go with a birth control option that is not ingested then you are not necessarily going to get that benefit but you do have other approaches to trying to control um the disordered bleeding patterns and so that could be with a vaginal ring that can be with a patch um if there is a reason that an individual can't or shouldn't have estrogen there are progesterone only options as well that would include a pill it could include um an intrauterine um system such as a marina iud as well as an implant in your arm um and then finally the option for an injection which is the depoprovera yeah and so you move to like androgen blockers afterwards most common androgen related features of the pcs being like your suit is a acne female pattern uh androgen related pattern hair loss um and so like spironolactone or aldactone is like one of the mainstays here it inhibits ovarian and adrenal steroidogenesis so just making the the sexteroids and other various pathways are like a ton of different mechanisms of action yeah um and that's standby there's also flutamide i think but i don't know how widely used that is the only thing to add about spironolactone i'll let you talk about it some more if there's other concerns but this is a banned substance in tested sports and so um you need a therapeutic use exemption and so each organization um that follows wada uh or usada in the united states has a tue therapeutic use exemption form that you would need your physician to help you uh fill out and submit so that way you know you wouldn't want somebody who was uh diagnosed with with something started on a treatment to go to a competition right the recreational powerlifting meat they get drug tests and oh you're banned because you're taking spironolactone it can be a it's a diuretic not great one but what a bummer yeah and a and a masking agent so they're like look it's banned so you need this tue but yeah that's what i think about androgen blockers and pcs i think about spironolactone and i start thinking about other medications for maybe a hair loss like finasteride for example how often are those being uh prescribed in in practice uh the finasteride not very much the spironolactone i would say that gynecologists are much more comfortable and more commonly prescribing that and that would be usually in in series so first step would be to try the the oral birth control pill and typically after about three to six months wanting to reassess um symptoms and if there hasn't been really any movement or improvement in in some symptoms specifically um hercetism um then you can consider adding on spironolactone at that time to use both of those agents to address those symptoms um and then further down this pathway is the option to consult with dermatology as well um to talk about other management options for excess hair growth for those patients that do suffer with hercetism yeah uh and then you move along there's like some metabolic concerns so metformins commonly uh prescribed in in pcs is that something you guys are still doing or is that you're getting a little a little uh standoffish when it comes to metformin oh well it's not uh it's not standoffish due to any specific harm i would say other than pretty common gi side effects but the the fact is that um we've had some pretty reasonable theories and hypothesis over time they've been studied they're at this time there is not compelling evidence that um that would indicate that the addition of metformin to your treatment strategy or metformin alone um is particularly effective for regulating ovulatory dysfunction for improving fertility outcomes or for reducing um some of these hyper angiogenic symptoms um and so it has mostly fallen out of favor um you'll see that um folks of our generation and then slightly older um will just knee jerk like reflexively still be tacking this on to um the treatment plan for anyone with pcs metformin contraception let's go yeah exactly as the combo um but um but individuals who are staying a little bit closer to the evidence and really scrutinizing and over time saying is this uh actually doing anything for us um at most for all of those different dimensions that i mentioned um may have a very very very modest impact but um should not be considered a mainstay really these days yeah that's the same thing uh like when i was doing my reading on an anositol anositol being that it's a sugar alcohol uh plays a role in insulin signaling you do make it and you obviously can ingest it and can supplement it um there's some thought that it improves insulin sensitivity and some other uh you know glucose uptake by the cells and a bunch of other stuff and there is some i don't want to call it defectiveness but there's a change in the anositol pathway in individual pcos um and so look hey let's supplement you can take it may help problem is is it's expensive uh thing one thing two supplements generally speaking are poorly regulated and then three the effects are relatively modest and so like my interpretation of this as a non ob gyn is that it's like look if this was a slam dunk this thing works and does a great job at it you guys would be like take an anositol and oh by the way like maybe there's some a pharmaceutical grade one similar to like like fish oil well there's uh lavasa there are other options that are prescription grade um but that's not really the case and so my interpretation tell me if you agree is that look if somebody wants to take an anositol they have pcos um they want to take it they had a discussion with their physician that they're all behind it find a brand that is third party tested it's all it's going to be on the label is gmp accredited you can either search it or it should be on the label and you know again setting the expectation that it's not going to set the world on fire but maybe uh potential benefit is that how you kind of see this on this stuff frame bomb i agree we concur all right fair enough yes doctor we fair enough we concur the other two components i was thinking about with metabolic care had to do with anti-obesity medications and and unfortunately you alluded to this earlier there's not really great data on uh you know the newer agents uh semaglutide for example terzepotide and there are going to be other ones coming down the pike most the data is on exenotide with a very old drug loraglutide a very old drug uh and uh you know fentramine topiramate though that data does exist and it's mostly for treating obesity um that's uh can be associated with uh pc us and individuals with pc us who also have obesity so it's more like a weight management thing versus like right let's look at the pc os specific outcomes fertility and ovulation whatever now can weight loss five ten five ten percent which is very consistent uh with these drugs and sometimes they do they do much more than that you would predict that that would be helpful but unfortunately we don't really have good evidence uh on that and in particular around like conception infertility like that's a even more i think it's a matter of time though with how the tides are have turned recently and just the direction that we're going i think it's a matter of time if and it's a big if if research dollars are allocated to find it uh an important enough query to fund and to ultimately study yeah but i think that it's a matter of time okay uh that's the same thing i mean metabolic bariatric surgery is also like it's not that it's new right but in this field it's it's relatively under research there are some studies on uh individuals with pc us undergoing metabolic bariatric surgery and effectively all of the we'll call it excess adiposity related concerns of the condition tend to get better so cardiovascular risk because blood pressure tends to normalize insulin resistance tends to get much much better here satism tends to improve sure but uh this doesn't appear to be like a mainstay in treatment and i don't know if there's just like a disconnect between like obesity management and pc us management or if there's more of this concern related to women where it's like well i don't know these are reproductive age females mostly we don't want to surgeries them prior to conceiving i don't know what's your take on that i don't know that um well there's there's lots of uh hot takes and opinions um as to why there is not better integrated um considerations for conditions that only affect women um in greater health questions and concerns different podcasts but i will say like on the ground i i don't feel that necessarily like within myself and my colleagues and in the spaces that i practice um i don't think that there is a concern for um precluding these treatment strategies for women because of their reproductive potential i don't see that at all and certainly not the way that i practice um and so it comes back to what their goals are and whether or not that includes fertility and what that timeline looks like and how we optimize things um from here to there yeah i would just i was unable to find any evidence on this for example how many uh individuals with pc os um are being their obesity is being managed using current evidence which would include either pharmaceutical interventions and or metabolic bariatric surgery early uh sort of like referral for a a surgeon's opinion on the hey are you a good candidate for this or not i couldn't find any evidence on that but my suspicion is that it's really low i mean it's low in general like it's underutilized people talk about metabolic bariatric surgery like oh too many people are getting surgeries they're getting this the you know the lap and the just to make your stomach smaller make your gut smaller like well that's not really why we're how it works we talked about that in our podcast on metabolic and bariatric surgery but overall it's underutilized right now i assume it's even more underutilized in patients with pc os yes i would i would agree and um just to kind of add that onto that clinical plate we were referring to earlier um and and then thinking about the clinicians um prowess and they're like they're bandwidth essentially to navigate all these different topics is exactly the reason why um this particular problem set or these particular symptoms and this particular um syndrome is something that i capture in a very comprehensive template that i use in the clinic in my documentation it serves as a great reminder to help queue me to cover um all this variety of um uh risk identification and counseling topics um and as reminders to say hey don't don't leave this out don't leave out that physical activity um motivational discussion with the patient and don't forget to acknowledge whether this is someone who would be a candidate for weight loss medications or metabolic bariatric surgery um so you protocolize it for yourself you put in a checklist and it can cue you to um to make it a part of the regular conversation that you're having and the more and more we have these conversations too um hopefully that leads to continuing to reduce stigma around this topic as well um and ultimately just in the name of trying to do what's right for the patient and really set them up for success the old checklist manifesto love love to yeah shout out to hear it yeah last thing i wanted to get you to talk about where we wrap this up is about fertility related treatments so you have a person who you've diagnosed with PCOS you're managing all of these other constellation of potential risk factors and long-term health sequelae um and they desire pregnancy and there are the laundry list of different agents and interventions that can be used whether it's clomaphen, letrosol, gonadotropin, etc um can you just give us like a two or three minute summary of like how your brain is operating in that space and like how you communicate that to the patient sure so uh before getting even to the treatment part um i always want to remember remind myself that someone who's been identified as having PCOS is not someone who needs to reach a 12 month of actively trying to conceive without a pregnancy criteria for that infertility criteria before you're moving forward with a general fertility evaluation um and starting to counsel them on some treatment strategies so this is going to be someone that we are moving forward with those things probably more like at the six month mark because they you can have someone in PCOS wait 12 months but the reality is the rate of pregnancy is going to be lower especially if they have that oligo or an ovulation if there's not an opportunity for um that egg to have that handshake with the stork then we're going to find ourselves in the same place but just like kicking the can down the road essentially so just keeping that in mind um to uh to go down this path a little bit sooner um and after completing a workup for female and male infertility um then we are at this point looking at offering letrosol um and rheumatase inhibitor um you mentioned clomaphen and um that is uh old and and very widely used medication it's been looked at head to head um in a variety of studies and where we are now with the body of research um is just that patients with PCOS the preferred agent is letrosol um they um can receive this from a general gynecologist not necessarily from an infertility specialist um and they can take this medication um during specific days in their menstrual cycle um that would typically  ably-be-within-the-first-half. It's gonna be for five days that they take it, usually starting on day two or day three. And if they are someone who does not have regular cycles, say they are anabulatory, they can do something that's called a quick start, so they just take it anytime, regardless of where they may be, because the truth is, we're not sure where they are, because they haven't had a period, which means has ablation happened, when was the last time it happened? Not sure, but this romatase inhibitor is intended to induce ovulation, so this strategy is called ovulation induction. And there's a variety of ways to also test if they take that medication at the first part of that cycle or a quick start, approximately 10 to 14 days later, depending on whether or not they are cycling normally, when an LH surge would potentially lead to an ovulation event and the opportunity to become pregnant. You can do ultrasounds that can verify whether someone has abulated, you can test a progesterone in what should be the medleodial phase of the cycle, or you can just wait and see, because if they go on to have a period, if they bleed, if pregnancy does not occur, then at least we know, okay, that did induce ovulation, because the period is something that we also call like a withdrawal bleed, because ovulation happened, a pregnancy did not occur, and then we're kind of wiping slate starting over. And so that is just like a very rough summary of what this medication is, how it works when you take it, and what should happen afterwards. This is something that can be prescribed for three to six cycles consecutively, and if pregnancy does not occur, then referral to a fertility specialist is absolutely an option at that point. Yeah, no good summary. Well, I appreciate your time on this. We've talked, I would argue not long enough about PCOS, but I also understand the attention span in the podcast universe, if perhaps if we normally had four hour podcasts, we could keep it going. But I think just to summarize briefly, PCOS is a complex medical syndrome, the diagnostic workup is complex, the patient care, it's all complex, and you would really be best served by having an individual like Dr. Baraki in your corner, who is coordinating all of these moving parts here. It's not just one thing, and there's no weird trick that I can sell you, or she can sell you, or anyone can sell you. And so I've listed a ton of resources in the show notes for you, and also Dr. Baraki's gonna be doing some work here with Barbel Medicine with respect to women specific consultations and such. So if you're an individual with PCOS and you want some more hands-on care, you can contact us support at barbelmedicine.com. Dr. Baraki, is there anything you wanna leave the audience with? I know I've taken up too much of your time, but if there was a parting shot here, if you chance. No, I turn, I'll echo what you said. Yes, complex, this, complex, yes, it's complex, but it's not insurmountable, and it's not impossible to overcome and to optimize and to reach a healthful place in your life if this is something that affects you. I like that. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbel Medicine PCOS podcast. Now, before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. A special shout out to Dr. Lorraine Baraki, the most handsome doctor in North America for joining us here, and we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbel Medicine podcast.