 unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, unveiled, First off, why did I compete in a meet? I've been going to a bunch of powerlifting meets to coach mostly and hang out with some barbell medicine athletes. So I went to Grand Cayman with Claire. That was the North American Powerlifting Federation Championships where she crushed it. And so I was kind of getting the itch there. And then I went to Raw Nationals with Leah and some of the other barbell medicine athletes. Charlie was there as well. And again, I'm kind of surrounded by it. I'm in it. And training was also going well. And this is important because the only real reason for me to compete is to break my all time PR total. We'll talk about that here shortly. But I don't really have any competitive drive just to show up and compete with who else is there. I just want to beat myself from the previous time I competed or my best ever in this particular case. So I was getting bit by the competition bug and then my training was going well. And so I kind of made this little pact with myself when I got back from Memphis. It's where Raw Nationals were that if training went well for another two weeks, I'd sign up for a meet. I felt like I kind of owed it to myself. If training was going well enough, I should like, you know, put it online at a platform, make it count in a meet. And yeah, I've been running Power Building 3 at that point for about three weeks. And training, all my numbers were kind of trending the right direction. I thought I might be able to PR if I kind of see it through. And so I figured don't fix what isn't broken and I'll just run Power Building 3 all the way through the meet. So that's actually what I did. The only thing I changed, in fact, was on day four of that particular program, there's like an upper back or like a rowing sort of exercise that I kind of put another deadlift session in because I wanted some more pulling. I actually feel like I forgot how to deadlift a little bit because I hadn't pulled in singles. I hadn't done any like heavy single rep efforts for almost a whole year. In fact, the last time I'd done singles was November of 2022 because I was prepping for another meet in November of 22, so almost a whole year ago, where I had another motorcycle crash and dislocated my shoulder. Not the same one I dislocated earlier that year, February of 2022. That one I dislocated, also riding motorcycles, came back about three and a half months later and was able to compete. Unfortunately, the one in November, I was like a week out. So I kind of had to scrap that meet. But in the interim, I basically did a bunch of bodybuilding stuff and really nonspecific sort of strength training. I didn't do any singles. So in fact, yeah, it was almost a whole year in between like me actually doing a heavy single on a squat, a bench press, a deadlift. And it seemed like the deadlift, it's not that it suffered the most. I just, I wasn't really good using the alternate grip because I'd been using straps in training because I was doing a bunch of higher rep work. And again, not doing singles. And I was pulling on a stiff bar and this meet that I did actually used a deadlift bar. So that's why I kind of replaced that slot on day two with another pulling sort of slot. Give me, give myself some more deadlift practice. Otherwise, I kind of ran it as it was all 14 weeks of power building three. It was actually one extra week I had to add because the timing was a little off. And I added another week of the final sort of meet prep block. Outside of that, I didn't cut weight for this meet. I weighed in at 94.5 kilos, which is like 207, 208, something like that. And the whole goal for this meet was to beat my all-time best total. My all-time best total I set in, while I was in medical school, 2014. I weighed in at 198 and it was with knee wraps. So yes, at the time, my knee wrap squat was probably 80 pounds heavier than the best squat I could do in knee sleeves. And in the interim, I've never used knee wraps. And so I've been trying to get my squat with knee sleeves to beat my all-time best squat with knee wraps and ultimately beat that total. So that was the goal. The total I had in 2014, I squatted 640. I benched 430 and I deadlifted 725. Now, if you're a math nerd, you're like, those don't really seem like kilo equivalents like they would use in a powerlifting meet. And that's true because these were all pound plates. And, you know, it was the gym I trained at in med school. So it was really nice to do. And if I'm being honest, the bench press probably was illegitimate because my butt definitely left the bench if they didn't call me on it. In any case, it was a 1795 total, which is about 815 kilos, 814 point something kilos. And so I knew if I totaled 817.5 kilos, 1801 pounds, 1801 pounds, then I would PR my total. And that was kind of the goal. So I really wasn't going to show up, sign up for a meet unless I thought that was a real possibility. And yeah, so I went up to Sacramento. We just had a seminar there actually the weekend before. And I debated whether or not I should like stay up there for the week. But I just wanted to be at home base, train at home at my home gym and, you know, do my normal sort of process. And then I flew back up there on a Thursday, weighed in on Friday, competed on Saturday. If there was a meet in San Diego, I would have done that. But unfortunately, yeah, there was kind of not a lot of not a lot of places to compete. And I just wanted to get something done before November really hit because November gets really busy for me. And December, I don't want to be, you know, prepping through the holidays is kind of a pain. So, okay, all that aside, again, this is my first time actually seeing these videos. Well, second time, because it's my second time recording this video, but I've only seen these, all of these videos together one time. And so, yeah, let's take a look at the meet. All right. Video review time. What is this? 267 and a half kilos. So 590, 591. I had Daniel J, my buddy, video this for me. And I told him, you know, yeah, just do whatever you want. If we're going to make, you know, an Instagram reel or something, you can film it vertically. That's why it looks like this. I'll tell you, take a look at this squat. Oh, I moved better than I remembered it moving. I'll tell you when I first put my hands on the bar, I thought that it was super smooth. And I was like, why is this bar so smooth? It's like all the knurling had been beaten down. But anyway, this is the second attempt, 277 and a half kilos, but I think it's 611, something like that. Yeah. I remember thinking that was tougher than it should have been. And I was like, oh, I don't know if I've got it, but yeah, three white lights look pretty good. So this is the third attempt. This is 287 and a half kilos, 633. So this is seven pounds off my best wrapped squat, but the most I've ever squatted in a meat, I think with knee sleeves is 280 kilos, which is 618, I believe. So 633. I remember unracking this and it feeling heavy. And I was sure when I squatted this that I squatted it high, but as you can see, I've seen this a few times. Man, I buried that thing. I don't know if I lost balance on the way up. That's kind of where it slowed down, but it actually looked better on a video than it felt. And a celebration. All right. Cool. DJ did some interviews after each of the lifts, so let's check those out. All right, Jordan, what happened? Yeah, I went three for three on squats. Set an all-time PR on my squat at 287 and a half kilos, which I think is 633, 634, something like that. I thought I was going to die. I mean, everyone's got a squat under the same condition, same rack, same platform, same bar. Bar is super slippery, though. And so on the third one, you can see the bar actually goes up my back, rolls up my back. So user error, plus maybe some of the barbell. I don't know, whatever. Anyway, instead of dying, I just made the rep. So manufactured a little bit of weight on the barbell. And we're set up well for PR total. So let's get the bread. Oh, my God. Honestly, that was the thing I was worried about the most. So yeah, the rest of the meet should be smooth sailing, but happy to be where I'm at and not dead. All right, moving on to bench. This is my opening attempt. 182.5, I think is what I opened. It's 401. I'll tell you, my legs were super, super sore after the squat. I mean, obviously, that grinder of a lift might be the hardest I've ever had to work on a squat that I actually made. So yes, it was 182.5, 401. Yeah, that moved fine. I just, the rack was one position low and it felt harder than it should have been. I thought after that, I was like, I don't know. It's not there today. All right. So this is the second attempt. This is 192.5. So 422. I moved the rack up one position. Yeah, this is like the best attempt that I felt all day. After that, I was like, oh, could I bench 200, 440? But I figured, you know, making sure that I got 180, 197.5 would put me in good position for my total, my PR total. So that's what I decided to take. This is my third attempt, 197.5. Getting the bar loaded. A lot of people are asking me like, what music am I listening to? I don't remember. The only thing I remember from my third deadlift, I was listening to Bad Things by I Prevail. I could have been listening to Drake. I could have been listening to Taylor Swift. I don't know. All I want to do is drown out whatever music they're playing. I just want to focus, right? So yeah, this is a 197.5. I've missed this three times in competition before. This is 435, I believe. And so yeah, I think, you know, I was debating between 197.5 or 200. Decide on 197. Let's take a look. Yeah. The appropriate level of hardness. Super excited. All right, let's go to the review. All right, Jordan, how did Benchpress go? Benchpress was amazing. It's an all-time meat PR, 197.5 kilos, just 435, 436, something like that. I've missed that in competition three times before this. So I was admittedly very nervous to call for it. But yeah, my opener was the worst by far. I had the bar a little low. So even as a veteran, you can still mess up the easy stuff, you know, getting the bar at the right height. So I was kind of nervous going to my second attempt. Second attempt flew. And I was like, oh, I can hit this third, the third that I need. And then the third moved faster than I even thought it would. So I probably left a couple kilos on there. But I'd rather leave a few kilos on the platform than miss and leave a lot of kilos on the platform. So I'm stoked. Heading in a deadlift. My favorite part of the meat. Yeah, let's go. All right, finally, on to deadlifts. Warm-ups didn't feel particularly good. But last warm-up was 595. This is 300, 661. Yeah, a little forward, but that's fine. I don't know what that guy is doing behind me. Literally serves no purpose for a conventional deadlifter. And if he's going to be back there, that's fine. They just want him back there. Fine. Just, you know, give me some space, baby. All right, so this is 320 kilos, my second attempt. This is 705. I think. Yeah. So I go through my same routine every single time. Again, I don't know why that dude's so close, but whatever. Three pumps, then pull. Yeah, still a little forward, but I'll tell you what. It moved better than it felt because it did not feel great. But I was pretty sure I was going to be able to pull 332.5. I was pretty confident as long as I didn't screw it up. So, yeah. This is 332.5733. And, yeah. They were like, do you want us to clean the bar first? I'm like, no, just let me do it. I want to go. I don't want to wait any longer. Let's see how this thing moves. I've only seen this a few times on my... Yeah, it was a little forward, but I kept the bar on my legs pretty good. Yeah, it's not bad. Then I realized I PR'd my total. That was cool. All right, Jordan, how did it go? It went great. Deadlifted. I went 3 for 3 on deadlifts. 332.5, which is 733, 734. First time I've ever gone 9 for 9 in a meet. I've probably done, I don't know, 20-something meets total. First time I've ever gone 9 for 9 for whatever reason. PR total, all time, regardless of federation, equipment, whatever. And I'm stoked. I'm not going to lie to you. I was super anxious before that third pull. Hand was bleeding. I just felt like, I don't know, it all comes down to this. But those are the moments that you train for. So, it was a good time. And, yeah, thanks for watching, I guess. All right, so that's a wrap on my powerlifting meet that I did. Again, this was October 2023. So, it's been about a little under a month now. So, I have some more time to have reflected on kind of what happened, what I feel, how I feel about it, and what's next. So, super proud of the meet performance. Super happy that it all came together on the same day. And it's, you know, it's one of those things. You can only have one best meet of your life, right? And so, hopefully, that's not the best meet I'll ever have. Hopefully, you know, there's going to be some more PRs in the future. Ideally, as an open competitor rather than a master's competitor. I've got about a year and a half before I'll be master's. We'll see. I think the next meet that I would like to do is probably going to be, well, it's going to be at least a year or so away. Maybe next fall, fall of 2024. I definitely want to get more into moto this year. Maybe do amateur nationals again. So, I'm running the HyperTree 1 template right now but with about four times as much conditioning as what's listed on there. Just trying to get in shape, better shape for the motocross season that's coming up and see if I can put my hat in the ring to make it back to Loretta Lenz. I went just over 20 years ago. And I'd like to go back there, go back there with my dad, hang out for the week and, yeah, do some battle in one of the vet classes. That'd be fun. So, yeah, powerlifting competition is on hold until maybe next fall. But, yeah, I'd like to get back into it. Definitely do another meet. Probably going to be a year from now. Maybe master's the year after that. Maybe a bigger meet. We'll see. I just, you know, training needs to be in a good place. It needs to be good timing with respect to, like, work and life and everything else like that. And we'll see if I can keep pushing these numbers up higher and higher. But in any case, thank you for tuning in. Thanks for checking out the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. Thanks for caring about my powerlifting meet if you're still watching. And, yeah, like, subscribe, do all that sort of stuff. We'll catch you next time.