 s She started training. She has not experienced any symptoms or flare ups. She's getting stronger and really enjoys training. I was wondering if you could speak to the benefits of resistance training for people with RA and if there are any special considerations that I need to be aware of. So, Dr. Baraki, I think some folks in the audience likely know what RA is, rheumatoid arthritis, but other people are like, I've heard of it, unclear. Can you walk people through what RA is and maybe contrast that to osteoarthritis that people are probably more familiar with? Yeah, osteoarthritis is the more common, more familiar form of arthritis that a lot of people have heard about. We've done several episodes on osteoarthritis, including our very first ever podcast episode, I believe, was on that topic. I would direct people if they wanted to learn about it to our more recent, I think it was like called a teaching rounds episode on osteoarthritis that would have been the better and more updated version of that conversation for details on that. Because I don't want to simplify and say, oh, it's the type that people know of more and they call it wear and tear because I don't like that phrase. We don't use that phrase when talking with people. But that's what osteoarthritis refers to. Now, there are a variety of other forms of arthritis and rheumatoid or RA as it is often abbreviated refers to a form of inflammatory arthritis. And the reason it's called that is because the immune system is involved. The immune system fundamentally is broken down into two different kind of arms. There's the innate immune system and the adaptive immune system. You might be familiar with the adaptive immune system as the one that produces antibodies, for example, when we are exposed to certain foreign pathogens and things like that. And so when somebody has a scenario where that arm, that adaptive wing of the immune system is kind of misdirected against our own body, that is known as an autoimmune disease where it is often an antibody mediated attack on our own tissues. And different autoimmune diseases have a predilection to attack different organ systems. This is also in contrast to the innate immune system, which can also in certain situations get turned on and attack our own bodies in various ways. And that is called an autoinflammatory disease. That's a super interesting and less common type of condition. So we have autoimmune and autoinflammatory. RA here is a type of autoimmune disease where the bodies, that wing, that adaptive wing is attacking our body's joints, leading to progressive joint destruction. Deformity, disability, pain, things like that. And aside from that, RA can also attack and involve many other tissues of the body. It can involve the lungs. It can involve the spleen. It can involve lots of different tissues in varying forms and varying permutations, leading to a lot of different complications. And perhaps most importantly, that the chronic inflammatory nature of it is something that means these patients with RA are at very high risk of cardiovascular disease. It's almost like everything that we talk about here, one way or another, ends up coming back to cardiovascular disease. Here, it's the chronic inflammatory nature where CVD ends up being the most common cause of death in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, barring them having a very severe manifestation affecting their lungs or something like that. So that's kind of the summary of it. And so these patients, they'll have a little bit of a different experience compared with those with osteoarthritis. So whereas in the early phases, before they've gone through maybe some dedicated rehab, as it's kind of manifesting, people with osteoarthritis might notice classically, or at least as the textbooks teach us, a bit more symptoms, aches and pains with more use, quote unquote. So like worse, like later in the day, at the end of a long day of like maybe manual labor or physical activity, a little bit achier in that situation. Whereas patients who have more inflammatory forms of arthritis, they might have symptoms that's actually worse in the morning after they get up after a period of, you know, relative rest overnight. And as they get moving, as they, you know, get going for the day, activity tends to actually improve some of those symptoms. And that's one of the kind of characteristic things that we'll tend to ask about is, do you have morning stiffness and how long does it last? And so if it's something that tends to improve with a bit of activity, that would raise our suspicion for one of these forms of arthritis. And there's similar phenomena that happen in other inflammatory musculoskeletal conditions. So people with inflammatory back pain from ankylosing spondylitis and things like that, similar kind of like back stiffness, worse than the morning, gets better with activity as the day goes on, kind of contrasted with more like traditional common back pain, nonspecific back pain that might be, you know, worse after a boatload of use as we often will help people through their rehab and in their strength training world and things like that. Yeah. And I think when you, you know, explain it that way, it would intuit if it were explained that way that, oh, you should exercise more than in RA because it'd make you feel better. However, there's still this old adage, this old, you know, conventional advice. You got to protect the joints. Look, if RA is damaging the joints, then you shouldn't exercise. That's just more damage. But the evidence doesn't support that at all. There are many, many studies on exercise in RA across a wide range of different modalities, everything from barbell training, freeway training, machine-based training, band-based training, aquatic, I mean, just you name it, it's been studied. And almost universally, an improvement in not only quality of life, function, health markers, but also reductions in pain. Like people just do reasonably well almost across the board here. And no radiographic evidence of joint damage. Although, again, that's really insufficient to kind of explain people's symptoms as we know. But the most interesting thing, at least to me, is that there does appear to be some disease modifying activity here. We think this is mostly related to the anti-inflammatory effect, the net anti-inflammatory effect of exercise. Now, when you think about exercise, yeah, there's some muscle breakdown. There's some stress on the tissues. And so that is inflammatory to some degree. However, the net effect of exercise is anti-inflammatory, mostly mediated through myokines. These are little proteins that are released from active muscle tissue that act as hormones. And so that kind of contrasts the inflammatory nature of the rheumatoid arthritis. So it can actually modify the disease itself, effectively the same targets that the medications these people may be on. So we're talking about CRP, IL-6, TNF-alpha. So some overlap there. And that's, I think, one of the reasons why the evidence is so good on RA and exercise. And in fact, this is reflected in the latest guidelines. The European Alliance of Associations for Rheumatology, the UK NICE, and the American College of Rheumatology guidelines all are currently recommending exercise, both aerobic and resistance training. They've all moved to this sort of new paradigm. So despite that being the case, in practice, many patients may still be getting the same old advice to not exercise. Don't stress the joints, mainly because guideline adoption can lag. It's not a problem with the guidelines per se. It's just that people may not be up to date. So some practical considerations. You can give me a yes or no on this, Dr. Baraki. Let me see what you think about this. So if a person has like an active flare, so they might notice like hot, swollen joints, elevated symptoms. Otherwise, this would be an indication to reduce not only the absolute load, so the weights that they're lifting, but also probably the amount of training. I wouldn't recommend stopping per se, but whatever the person can tolerate. Kind of sounds like our general approach to injuries. How does that strike you? Yeah. Yeah. I, you know, this active RA flares is not a situation where the correct path of treatment is immobilization. They can move, right? It's not the time to push into your training necessarily while you talk with your doctor and get it under control. And then you can return to more regular training. So immobilization not needed, normal activities and movement is fine. Yes. Yep. And because RA often affects the wrists, the fingers, and this is how we interact with our environment, including in the gym, it may be preferable to use machines, for example, or other things that are less grip dependent, especially during flares or especially early on in an individual's fitness journey, especially if they haven't really been exposed to exercise before. Straps can also be useful here. It's more of a practical consideration. How does that strike you? Yeah. I think it's totally fine. I've had several patients over the years with RA related grip issues and it's just like, okay, use straps. It's okay. Yeah. Use the tools. Another practical sort of tip here would be like an extended warmup. Now, you know, we get a lot of questions. Should I stretch? Should I do this active mobilization? Should I get a band out and root around a foam roller or whatever? And generally we're like, look, if it makes you feel better and you like it and you got time to spare, go for it. But in this particular case, it's not that I would recommend those types of movements for a warmup, but I would just consider extending or protracting the warmup. So if the person is going to start with a leg press, for example, maybe not just starting on the leg press, but other sort of dynamic exercises, mainly it sort of refers to this idea that they're more stiff earlier on. And to the extent you can get somebody to kind of desensitize themselves through more graded exposure to different movements, that would be a good idea. Thoughts? Very reasonable. No comments. Yeah. And the last part here, this is more for the coaches rather than healthcare professionals. There's a difference, at least in my experience, between folks who have what I would consider well-controlled RA versus uncontrolled RA. So whether that's their medication regimen, other aspects of their medical treatment, individuals with well-controlled RA tend to have, at least again, in my experience, less flares. They seem to tolerate more exercise generally better. So if I were to work with somebody who says, look, I've been having flares all the time. We haven't really sussed out the correct medication regimen for me, but they decidedly kind of an uncontrolled RA person. It's not that I would say, look, exercise isn't for you right now. It's just, I would be more cautious with that person. How does that strike you? Yep. Also reasonable. Yeah. Right. Well, to me, the coach in this question is doing the right thing. This is what evidence-based coaching actually looks like in practice. The client's getting stronger, the symptoms are better, and the research supports exactly what they're doing. Keep going. Nice job. Gold star. Yeah. I agree. I know this question asker, I believe. I think somebody who I've worked with, we know, coached for a long time. So not surprising. He's doing a great job. There you go. There you go. There you go.