! NACnum mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage mortgage into the 90s. We have good evidence of that. And we know that exercise, specifically resistance training, reduces the loss of those motor neurons so you don't lose the type 2 muscle fiber, so you don't lose the strength and the power, so you don't have the fall, so you don't break your hip, so you don't end up seeing Dr. Baraki. There are easier ways to see Dr. Baraki than breaking your hip in the state of Texas. We know we have good evidence from master's athletes showing that it slows down aging and also preserves muscle mass and other interesting things within the muscle, the muscle capillarization, so how many blood capillaries do you have, which is important for amino acids to make their way to the muscles, for sugar to make its way to the muscles, all these sorts of things. So that's the why. As far as how, the physical activity guidelines are fine. Resistance train twice a week, do at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, that would be like steady state stuff, or you can do 75 minutes at least of vigorous intensity conditions would be a little harder where you can't really speak in short sentences, for example. That's like the minimum. I'd probably prefer something close to like double that because I think there are additional benefits afterwards, not only on function and performance, but also in like reducing risk of sarcopenia later on. Basically, you get to build this big base of physical development. Your 401k, your physical 401k is fully funded, and should you need to make a withdrawal later, well, you got some in reserve. And also, you can be aggressive, more aggressive with respect to actually delivering that training load to an individual, mostly because these people are starting with a higher level of fitness, generally because they have less medical comorbidities. There's been less sort of disuse over the years, and so you can be a little more aggressive as far as working up to that. You should still be gradual, but you don't have to take special care because the population you're dealing with is less frail, less risky. So that's the exercise situation. From a nutrition standpoint, we'd still recommend getting about 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per total kilogram body weight. That's kilogram body weight. So if you want to think 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound, that's fine per day, but there's no micromanagement here, meaning like I'm not worried about where you're getting the protein from. I'm not worried about how much protein's in each meal, anything like that. Just at the end of the day, are you getting about this much protein? And that's all well and good. Check the box. Supplements in this case would be per preference for individuals who want a protein supplement because they otherwise aren't getting enough protein or it's easier for them or they're using as a meal replacement to displace other foods. That's all fine. They want to take creatine. That's fine. Modest effect. But I don't really feel strongly that a person needs supplements outside of personal preferences. Yeah. And I would want to point out here regarding the dietary protein sources. I mean, if you listen to a lot of folks in this space, they will, you know, aggressively harp on the need for all of the protein to be animal derived for like optimal efficiency and bioavailability and things like that. Nah. And we have talked about this before that when studies have looked at actual outcomes of muscle gain and strength gain when people are consuming enough protein in the doses that we're recommending. It actually doesn't matter whether it comes from animal or plant derived sources. And we can make an argument that for when people tend to bias it more in that plant derived direction, they also will tend to derive a number of additional health benefits as well. And so, you know, to the extent that somebody, if I have somebody with cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and they're asking me, should I, you know, continue or you're telling me I need protein, should I be consuming, you know, a couple of ribeyes a day or should I consume a variety of protein sources from, you know, beans and legumes and lentils and tofu and various other sorts of plant derived sources? I would say, you know, I'm not strictly in opposition to animal derived protein sources, but I definitely encourage the consumption of many of those plant derived sources as well, because those will also stand to benefit your underlying medical conditions to a greater degree, your cardiovascular disease, your chronic kidney disease, your, you know, things like that, especially when consumed in sufficient doses, there's a lot of other benefits to be had from the other plant derived compounds, the polyphenols, the fiber content, the differences in fat composition and impact on lipids and all sorts of other things. So yeah, I don't, I want to strongly, you know, distinguish our recommendations here for nutrition compared with what folks might hear in many other conversations around sarcopenia in this space that like aggressively narrow in on it has to be animal derived for bioavailability reasons or some other nonsense like that. Yeah, not an evidence based take. And further, if you're like, well, look, but whey is animal derived, I should replace my whey protein with soy protein, and then boom, more plant based. That's what they said. That's probably not going to make a difference. In fact, I feel strongly that it's not. But instead, if you're getting more protein, instead of it's it being steak, or you know, other sort of protein like that, and you instead of you're getting it from plant based sources, whether it's tofu or something similar, that's, that's what we're talking about. More vegetable matter, more plant matter, generally speaking, it just tends to displace foods that are high in calories, not very filling low in fiber and may have other sort of things that you really want to limit to some degree, like saturated fats from from animal sources, for example. But yeah, just swapping like a whey protein shake for a soy protein shake is is not going to do anything. All right. So that's the story with preventing sarcopenia to the extent that we can. And then from a health perspective, under that umbrella, look, try to avoid, obviously, any chronic medical condition, and the ones that you do have, try to optimize them, address them. Don't just say later when I'm older, because all of these things can certainly contribute to developing secondary sarcopenia, like we mentioned earlier. Now, that's umbrella, that's the first kind of umbrella or bucket that I kind of think about. The second one is individuals who've been diagnosed with sarcopenia or who are at high risk for sarcopenia. The first lever we're trying to try to pull here is exercise again. And why? Well, we can't regain the motor neurons that we've already lost, but we can still get stronger, both in low velocity sort of applications. So traditional resistance training, but also high velocity stuff. So more power, which is better for avoiding falls, which is better for avoiding that hip fracture as a secondary to that fall. So you can improve performance. All that is well and good. Now, when you look at the evidence on actual training outcomes, those things readily improve strength, low and high velocities, that's power, readily improve and improve performance on whatever performance battery you want to give somebody. Improving muscle mass seems to be a little more challenging, but I'm kind of okay with that. Look, I want folks to get jacked too, but if they don't gain a bunch of muscle mass, but gain a bunch of function, that's better for sure. And we can also then preserve existing muscle and improve its function, ultimately better quality of life. So that's the why. Easy sell for most folks, especially if they already have a diagnosis of sarcopenia. As far as how, well, this is where it starts to get a little different. So we want people to get at least to these physical activity guidelines and ultimately beyond, but because they're more vulnerable, likely due to long-term chronic disuse, right? So insufficient activity and being ultimately undertrained, they're a little more vulnerable to the dosing right out of the gate. So starting a little bit lower than you otherwise would is reasonable advice. But in saying that, I also must speak out of the other side of my mouth that I have a lot of concerns about underloading and undertraining this population. Yeah, you want to avoid injury risk, for example, but you also want to avoid spinning your wheels and just saying, yeah, this is good enough. Like just walking, for example, or lifting very, very light weights that aren't anywhere close to failure or intentionally slow tempos for some particular reason. All of these things would be less likely to provide benefits. So you're kind of riding a fine line here. And ultimately, you would want an experienced individual to be at the helm. But yeah, we are offering some resources for this. So I just redid our beginner program. Now, previously, this was mostly for younger individuals or other folks who kind of made their way to barbell medicine. And they're like, what do you do? I'm just starting out. What do I do? This is more public facing, but there's going to be a number of different programs in there. One is an express sort of program. It's two days a week. It's completely based on machines and dumbbells. Whether or not this is more accessible to the general public, I suspect yes, just because it's like, look, I can do a leg press all day, but you want me to squat with a bar on my back? I'm not going to do it. While I'd like to unpack that later, I can't do that in an article, at least not to my satisfaction. So that's going to be one of the included templates. It might be perceived as less intimidating, ultimately easier to increase participation. And there'll be a version of that that's aimed at individuals who are either at risk for sarcopenia or who have sarcopenia. So it's going to be a slightly lower dose. So you get those two templates, a more three-day traditional type template for folks who are like, look, I'm 25 years old. I've never lifted weights before, but I want to be serious about it. What do? So you get all of that. That's coming out this week. So stay tuned to the barbell medicine channels. You'll check that out. Now, existing data on optimal programming appears very weak for individuals with sarcopenia. And I suspect it's either AI generated or some sort of English second language type thing, because this is like the latest meta-analysis on this. And I'm going to read a direct quote from this. Okay. A recommended 19-week program includes three sessions per week at 49% of a 1RM, featuring 15 exercises per set, six sets, and 16 repetitions per exercise, totaling up to 1,400 reps weekly. This is a quote? That is a direct quote. This is the worst AI hallucination I've ever heard. Either that or the worst coach I've ever heard. 100%. Yeah. So yeah, unfortunately, there's not great guidelines here for optimal sort of programming metrics. Now, just the way I think about programming in general, one of the acronyms that's used here frequently is FITVP, where that stands for frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, and progression, right? Now, frequency is mostly a tool that we can leverage to distribute the exercise over the course of generally a week based on a person's preferences. It doesn't really matter how you split it up, provided a person can do it, right? So that's mostly a personal preference thing. Intensity, on the other hand, is not really negotiable here. We need the individual to be lifting weights with a rep range somewhere between like three to 20 reps. And most of those sets should be fairly challenging, but not maximal. So depending on the rep scheme that you pick, that's going to determine the absolute load on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, but it should be pretty challenging. So that's the intensity bit. You can't mail that in. It has to be somewhat challenging, and they should try to move each rep with intention quickly, if possible. Try to get those fast-twitch muscle fibers to stick around. Time, this is mostly related to conditioning, but they should be doing conditioning as well because this appears to combat not only anabolic resistance, it improves the mitochondrial dysfunction that is prevalent in individuals with sarcopenia, and concurrent training is not a problem, plus all of the other sarcopenia-independent-type benefits of cardiorespiratory fitness improvement. So that's time. As far as type, exercise selection is really up to the individual what they're willing to do. If you want machines, that's fine. You want dumbbells, that's fine. You want free weights, like barbell-based, that's fine, too. Kettlebells, I don't care. You just have to do it. I do think there are some unique benefits with freestanding exercise from like a balance perspective and like moving the body in space. Perhaps that would be useful to an individual who's worried about falls, for example. But on the other hand, a person who's already worried about falls, ask them to walk out of weight and be challenging, and perhaps that would limit the load that they can use, ultimately compromising their outcomes. In that case, a leg press might be a better quote strengthening exercise to start, whereas the squat training like a freestanding squat would be more like skill practice at first. Sure. And then volume, again, I said it's going to be a little lower than you would otherwise want, but gradually increasing over time. And progression is the same as we've always described, progressive loading. As somebody's fitness improves, as their training tolerance improves, as they get stronger, they are required to put more weight on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, to match their newfound fitness. That's the story on programming. You'll see that reflected in the new sarcopenia version of the express beginner program that'll be up on the website, it'll be freely available. So you your parents won't have to download the barbell medicine app to get a free program. But yeah, we'll have that. So that's the training story. Nutrition story is much the same, but with some additional nuances. So the same protein target 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day, or like 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound. But there is some micromanagement here, because I do really want each meal to contain a significant protein bolus, meaning that I don't want them to have all of their protein at one meal. And I don't want all of the protein to be from sources that don't contain all the essential amino acids or a high concentration of them. Doesn't mean they should avoid plant-based proteins entirely. But some additional pain, some additional attention to this can be important for two reasons. One, anabolic resistance is prevalent. But the big issue, I'm less concerned about that, particularly in an active population, I'm more concerned with these folks, their appetite tends to be low. They tend not eat a lot of protein at in general anyway. And so if they're just like, oh, I get more protein from beans, and you're like, well, that's true. And I like the fiber, and I like all the other stuff. But I really want something that has more essential amino acids in it. So a whey protein supplement can be pretty useful here, particularly for individuals who have who struggle meeting their protein target. I also feel maybe slightly more optimistic about how creatine could positively affect somebody's life. There does seem to be some good data here on it improving lean mass outcomes compared and improve sit to stand performance compared to individuals receiving a placebo. You don't need to, you know, take 20 grams a day like that idiot Rhonda Patrick said, you can take three to five grams per day. That's the dose. If somebody wants, that's fine. There are other sort of supplement recommendations that have very weak evidence and would not routinely recommend. So like vitamin D, it has some evidence around reduced fall risk and improved bone health. So if an individual has osteoporosis, they're going to be on vitamin D or have been recommended to take vitamin D anyway. But I don't think it changes anything with respect to sarcopenia proper. Same thing about fish oil. And I saw HMB in one of these papers and I was like, we know that HMB doesn't do anything. So I would not recommend those two routinely vitamin D. I'm kind of whatever. Do you feel differently about vitamin D since you're the vitamin D whisperer? Right? No, no. I mean, I agree that this population similar, similar to how I described how like my hospital population is enriched for those with sarcopenia, those with sarcopenia, most often due to the collection of medical conditions that they have are also, I'll say enriched for by having vitamin D deficiency that, you know, if the person is willing to take a supplement to improve that, then that's fine. But I'm not similar to creatine. I'm not pitching it as a game changer and certainly not as like getting equal emphasis in our conversation compared with training. Yep. Yep. Biggest lever to pull for sure is going to be training for sure. And lastly about medicine. So individuals with sarcopenia tend to have multiple medical problems. And so optimizing this chronic disease management from a medical standpoint would be useful like obesity. For example, we'll talk a little bit more about this in about 180 seconds. If somebody has testosterone deficiency, that would be a good time to potentially investigate that it does. If you have an individual with testosterone deficiency, and then they are placed on testosterone replacement therapy, TRT, they do see an increase in muscle mass, but improvements in gait speed, or like physical battery tests don't necessarily go up if a person is not actually exercising just again showing that mechanotransduction is the ruler of all these things you have to exercise. Yep, 100%. And other things if somebody's got an autoimmune disease, inflammatory condition, other sort of primary disease, that should be optimized as well. And then also something that may kind of be last on your list of things to do. It's last on our outline here is a sort of medical medication reconciliation. So beta blockers, for example, or glucocorticoids or other medications that either promote anabolic resistance or otherwise lead to decreased exercise or reduced exercise intensity or all of these things. That's tough. I would not recommend just coming off these things just because you're listening to this podcast. Don't go pour grandma's medications down the toilet. That's not what we're saying. But these are things to have conversations about the risks and benefits, especially because sarcopenia and decreased sort of function can compromise somebody's ability to live independently. Yeah, these are things that are, I think, underrated in terms of their importance to talk about. And unfortunately, in the same way that not all clinicians are going to be as facile and comfortable with the types of conversations that I described earlier with patients around this, many clinicians get out of date or lazy with their use of medicines in this space. So like routine use of beta blockers for blood pressure management, and there are other situations where beta blockers have historically been used that now we're learning are probably not ideal uses. So in certain forms of heart failure, we thought maybe it would help. And now we're using less of it in, again, certain types of heart failure or in certain other contexts where there are some types of beta blockers that are better than others. And then certainly with glucocorticoids or the medicines like prednisone, especially when they're prescribed all the time for like bouts of back pain and things like that, not ideal. Of course, that's usually for a relatively short, short course, but repeated short courses over time can be problematic if they're potentially avoidable. And then if certainly if somebody's on long term prednisone, that's more often like for a reason. But if it's being done by a wise clinician, they should also have in the back of their mind, hey, what methods can I use to try to get this person on the lowest dose possible, or on a steroid sparing agent to get them off of the glucocorticoid or the prednisone altogether, because that is almost always preferable to somebody being on long term prednisone therapy as an example.