 Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength conditioning and strength conditioning to modern medicine. I'm your host, Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. And as we head into the holiday season, you're likely going to see your parents, grandparents, or other older relatives. And if you look around the dinner table, statistically, at least one of them is likely suffering from sarcopenia, even if they look, quote, normal size. Now, we used to think this was just about muscles getting smaller, but we were wrong. It's actually much more related to the muscle becoming weaker, which is mostly related to changes in the nervous system, a process that begins decades before you notice it. And in this episode, Dr. Baraki and I will be breaking down the newest science of sarcopenia, why walking isn't enough to stop it, and what you and your loved one should do about it. And now on the other end of the line is the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, yeah, man. It seems like this is a topic that we've been talking about for, like, I don't know, over a decade now, but we were overdue to cover this topic in some detail. So here we are. Allow me to throw some shade for a second, because we've been talking about this for a while. And you and I were tasked with, you know, by up to date to come up with strength training and primary care and like how to do it. So two articles, if you're a healthcare professional and you want to see our stuff, we're up to date. And we realized that up to date, there's a gap there. There's nothing on sarcopenia on up to date as of this morning when I checked. And so we volunteered to like, hey, do you want us you want us to do the sarcopenia thing? And we were told, well, you're not really the experts on sarcopenia. And I was like, question, who actually, who are the experts in this case? Because it seems like most people are just making stuff up. And then, you know, they're very far into the weeds about the pathophysiology and the nomenclature and naming less into the, yeah, so here's what you do about it. And that's not throwing shade at the researchers because look, we're standing on the shoulders of giants. There are some really intelligent people in here doing great, great work. Unfortunately, though, how that's being communicated to not only healthcare professionals, but also to the lay public, there's just a big gap there. And I was like, well, we do that every day. So yeah, I agree. I mean, I think that, you know, if you surveyed a lot of, you know, generalists or primary care folks or even among geriatricians, they might be able to, you know, give you a sense of what this word means, even if they just drawn some context clues or think back to their like Latin roots or something like that. But taking that a step further and saying, well, how are you going to counsel your patient on this? Or what would you suggest for them? Given that, you know, it's not necessarily easy in all contexts to just say, oh, I'm going to refer them to this practitioner because practitioners in this case are a lot of like trainers that may or may not have the, you know, level of understanding needed for the particular patient in front of them with certain medical conditions or, you know, being on certain medicines or whatever the case is. It's, there's definitely a gap there. So here we are. Yeah, look, that's a nice segue into definitions talking about sarcopenia. Because if you look anywhere on the internet, you swing a dead cat anywhere, it's sarcopenia followed by age associated loss of muscle mass. And we're like, hmm, that doesn't doesn't feel right. So and in fact, it is not right. Now, this, the term sarcopenia was originally coined by a Dr. Erwin Rosenberg in 1989. So relatively recent. So if you had, you know, as we'll talk about, sarcopenia in 1988, you actually didn't because the term didn't exist. So I'd be very curious, maybe they just call it like frailty or like, you know, failure to thrive or something, something like that. I'd be very curious. But in any case, 1989, he writes this, it's not really a memoir. It's more like a, just a recapitulation of what happened in the medical literature. So he says, and I quote, in 1988, we convened a meeting in Albuquerque, New Mexico to look at the various measurements related to the assessment of health and nutrition in elderly populations. And I was asked to summarize some of the findings. I noted that no decline with age is as dramatic or potentially more significant than the decline in lean body mass. Hey, look, 1980s. He goes on to say, what is sarcopenia? Is it an age related loss of muscle mass and function or a disease or a process of normative aging? The term actually describes an important change in body composition and function. So as is typical, whenever we think we've stumbled upon something like unique or like brand new, you just actually have to go back further, just divorce yourself from like modern history and go back even further. And you're like, oh, yeah, some are like really smart people were actually like thinking about this way before us. But why do you think from there? So that's not, that's like the coin, the term is coined. Why is it that everybody right now just call sarcopenia age age associated loss of muscle? Like you could ask Google Gemini right now, and that's going to be the thing it spits out. And it's like, why? Yeah, I don't have a strong explanation for it. I think that some of these definitions tend to take and then they just kind of stick. And, you know, if that is the accepted definition of the term, then research using that definition will tend to look at that very outcome. In other words, it'll tend to look at muscle mass as the as the indicator. So it ends up being like a circular sort of thing where the studies reinforce the definition. This is a hypothesis, of course, you know, but he was seemingly ahead of his time where he included the concept of muscle function in there. And so if, you know, instead from the beginning, he had observed that muscle power was something that was, you know, plummeting with aging in these patients. And then from the very beginning, the research path was set on, you know, the loss of muscle strength and power, then maybe we'd be in a different spot. But that didn't seem to be the aspect of his line of questioning or inquiry that took as much as the loss of muscle mass. And similarly, you know, there is a little bit of a parallel. I don't think we're going to get into it in too much depth in this podcast, but I've talked about it elsewhere to where the prevalence and the development of sarcopenia muscle mass in general tends to track to some degree with bone mass. And so we already had this conception of, you know, osteopenia and osteoporosis relating to bone mass. And so, you know, you might intuit that, oh, sarcopenia, just muscle mass, maybe the same thing, even though it is functionally and of course, structurally a very different tissue. Yeah, he also thought about, he said in his little memoir, kind of memory thing, he's like, oh, should I call it sarcomalacia? And but at the end, he like the last paragraph and all this stuff, there's a ton of references here. But in this, in this little editorial, he was like, one question that remains, was it a good, is it a good thing that I put a label on this, basically, like, and he goes, yeah, because now people are researching it. And so, you know, I think if around today, he'd be like, I wish I would have put a bigger emphasis on this and function thing. So yeah, as we dive into a little etymology here, so where do the word come from? So sarcopenia means flesh poverty. So, penia, you've heard like osteopenia, for example, just that means poverty and sarx is flesh or muscle tissue. You could also call it myopenia. And then there's another term that we will discuss here called dyna-penia, so like strength, poverty, a loss of strength, or it could be crato-penia, which I quite like, power, poverty, a loss of power. Now, these are the key variables in the disease that we commonly understand and talk about sarcopenia. And it matters how we define them and the disease. So for example, muscle mass declines about 1% per year after age 50, but strength declines about three times faster per year, and power declines even faster than that. So it can't just be muscle mass, because, and I'll draw an analogy here, and this has actually been codified in the medical literature, it's called the green banana relationship here. So a green banana and a ripe banana might be the same size, but their chemical composition and firmness are totally different. So old muscle, to draw a parallel, can look full on an MRI due to fat or water or other things, but have zero or reduced contractile quality. So you can't just go on size alone. So I'll ask this question to you again, Dr. Baraki, but in a different way, and maybe you'll have a better answer. For a long time, the medical community was obsessed with measuring muscle mass. So even, you know, as far back as 2010, the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in older people, well, their guidelines said that small muscle basically equals disease, that's sarcopenia. But then we saw this paradox in the data where you had people with, quote, normal sized muscles, but they were still falling and fracturing their hips. So can you walk us through why the guidelines have shifted now as late as 2019 to prioritize strength and function over just muscle mass alone? Yeah, it's been an important and interesting evolution. And like many kind of, you know, fields of study and medicine and theories, it tends to get refined over time as we learn more. I remember writing some original articles for Barbelle Medicine over a decade ago on the website and referencing the European Working Group on Sarcopenia in older people, the original version before the second version that you are citing here from 2019. And that's where there kind of started to be this more formalized shift in the way we thought about sarcopenia instead of focusing on the mass aspect to explicitly state that sarcopenia is more probable when low muscle strength is detected. So shifting a little bit somewhat away from mass and more towards function, although the definition and the way we conceptualize it still tended to envelop both. But I think that marked a time when there started to be a bit more emphasis on the strength component. And these guidelines looked at sarcopenia across the lifespan and emphasized that they kind of viewed it as a muscle disease that started earlier in life and you would kind of accumulate these hits across the lifespan in various ways due to what we call secondary causes, meaning like if somebody is accumulating certain diseases or they are progressively more inactive or, you know, one area that's, you know, I observe on a day-to-day basis is each time one of my patients gets admitted to the hospital, there's some literature that these have been termed quote-unquote, catabolic crisis. For example, each time somebody with COPD gets admitted to the hospital or somebody with heart failure gets admitted to the hospital, every time, you know, they end up getting sick, they get inflammation, they spend most of their time in bed, they get put on certain medicines like corticosteroids and things like that that accelerate the process of catabolism and muscle breakdown. So each one of these episodes contributes to the accumulation of these hits kind of across the lifespan. And so they looked at the concept of sarcopenia and they said, well, it's probable if the person has some low muscle strength and if you combine that and they also have low muscle quantity or this concept of muscle quality that you alluded to where it might appear that they have a decent amount of muscle mass, but it is of such poor quality that it doesn't work very well, that was essentially confirmatory of a diagnosis of sarcopenia. And then if on top of that you layered on that this person had kind of what we'll call objectively poor physical performance or low performance as assessed by certain, you know, tests that have been studied that we'll get to a little bit later, that would qualify as more severe sarcopenia. Yeah, yeah. And the key thing here is that, you know, with the old just muscle mass centric or muscle centric, you know, definition diagnosis, it just it didn't correlate very well as far as like it wasn't very predictive of like, oh, these people are going to do worse, they're going to fall more fractured, get more fractures, not be able to live independently or mortality, for example. And so you're like, well, why do we have this disease? And we're going to harangue ourselves to like diagnose it when it's not that great as far as predicting these things. But if you actually change the definition, instead of it just being muscle mass only to actually you need some poor muscle function, and here's how we're going to define that, well, it gets much, much better. And we have good data on that now that continues to emerge. And actually, it looks like the, you know, the pendulum has swung the other way, rather than it being like muscle mass centric, it's more muscle strength, muscle force production centric. I just had an interesting thought. And let me run this by you and see what you think of it. One of the common, you know, things that we talk about all the time that we hear is critiques of BMI. I was just where people say that we're on the same page here. BMI as a tool to assess body fatness or adipose tissue is not ideal in certain circumstances because it fails to account for how much muscle somebody might have as part of that calculation. And what you're suggesting here, what we've been talking about as far as muscle quality goes, or quantity goes, is that even if you are to assess the size of someone's muscle, it's almost in some ways like BMI, because just the sheer size of it does not tell you much about the quality in terms of how much fat is actually in the muscle that is that useful. It's kind of like going in the other direction. Do you think that that holds water? Yeah, I think it does. And I just imagine people, again, if there was just this outrage, like the European working group on sarcomenate, other people have no idea this test is just about muscle size and not muscle strength. Right, right. I also think that, and we'll get to this, that the hand grip strength, it's just one of the tests that you can do in the office doesn't require a lot of skill, like whatever. I understand why it's used, but I don't love it, and we'll get into reasons why. But I think that's like the BMI test also. It's just like, if you want to be upset about things, be upset about BMI and hand grip strength and then whatever. Yeah. All right. But anyway, the whole point is when you shift away from a mass only sort of definition of sarcopenia, and you include strength or even just have strength alone, power alone, it does much better predicting falls, mortality, so on and so forth. And we've linked a ton of data showing that from the sarcopenia definitions and outcomes consortium, there's just too many acronyms here, I think. Now, to add one tiny addition to my prior comments, I think much like BMI though, muscle mass quantitation, if you wanted to measure it, is probably still quite useful at the extremes. So in the same way that I can tell you, if somebody's BMI is 17, I know that they are extremely underweight and I can kind of visualize them when I see them, or if their BMI is 42, I know that they are 100% confident that they are carrying too much muscle mass, whereas there is a range in between where it gets a little, sorry, excuse me, fat mass, there's a range in between where it's a little bit hazier, kind of similar with muscle mass, right? It's very unlikely that somebody with just overwhelming amounts of muscle mass on them is likely to have insufficient muscle function to be able to live a generally healthy life from a functional standpoint, although there might be other issues to speak of with respect to how such muscle mass was acquired. But at the same time, you know, when I think about some of the thinnest and most frail patients that I see, it's like, I can just tell by the sheer, you know, how little muscle mass they have when I can essentially see their skeleton, I'm like, yeah, there's no way you're like extremely functional with this. So at the extremes, that quantity is still useful, but there is a broad range of kind of less certainty, not unlike what we've described with BMI, where you need additional data to kind of adjudicate that. Yeah, although this is a nice segue into our next little talking point here, because there's a distinct situation where a person is likely to actually be carrying either a normal amount of lean body mass or like even an elevated amount of lean body mass, but have poor function, and they also have a significant amount of fat mass, and that's called sarcopenic obesity. Generally speaking, individuals with obesity or individuals with overweight tend to carry more lean body mass than lean individuals. It's just kind of how the disease develops. People just don't gain 100% fat mass. Despite that, individuals with sarcopenic obesity, as Dr. Baraki will tell us about, also have poor muscle function, despite having a significant size of their muscle. So Dr. Baraki, what's up with sarcopenic obesity? What is it? And why is it even that much more dangerous than just run-of-the-mill sarcopenia? Yeah, it's essentially a second hit to their physiology and to their health risk. So it is a kind of a next level up in terms of risk, because it combines all of the risks of sarcopenia, where the person might have insufficient muscle mass, but more likely has some impaired muscle function, leading to the consequences of that. But on top of that, they have the additional risk from the excess body fat, which we have talked about at length over the years on this podcast, from the levels of inflammatory signaling molecules called adipokines coming from muscle, the effects of fat physically infiltrating into the muscles. That's called myosteatosis, and it causes this toxicity within the muscles. That's called lipotoxicity and leads the muscles to become insulin resistant, meaning they don't take up glucose as well. They have impaired metabolism. People's resting lactate levels will be abnormally high in those situations, just because their metabolism is not functioning very well at the level of the muscle. This ends up being a pretty harmful and negative pathologic feedback loop, I would say, in people, because they have both impairments on the muscle side and on the fat side, because both are going in the wrong direction. Yeah. Now, when we try to figure out how many people actually have sarcopenia, because of all the problems with definitions that have only recently been resolved, although there's still some active work being done, it's very challenging to come up with a confident, like, hey, this is how many people have it. But right now, based on the best estimates and the best data that we have, about 5% to 13% of community dwelling adults aged 60 to 70 have sarcopenia, and that goes up to almost 50% for those over the age of 80. Now, I suspect with these new definitions, these new frameworks coming into play, that prevalence is actually going to increase, but we'll need some more data to feel confident about that. There's an interesting nuance here, though, that there are different types of sarcopenia. We talked about sarcopenic obesity, but broadly speaking, you can really differentiate sarcopenia into two types of primary and secondary, primary being mostly age-related, meaning that there's no other specific cause that's evident of this, except for aging itself. And this is really a diagnosis of exclusion. So there are intrinsic biological clocks, not to get too fancy, but there are the little nuclei in your muscle cells. These are responsible for making proteins, maintaining a particular area of the muscle, making sure everything's working well. Well, you get some DNA damage that accumulates there as we age. We can't really reverse that totally anyway. You might have conrial dysfunction, there are some hormonal changes, not necessarily the ones you might think about. Everyone just immediately jumps to testosterone, but I'm thinking more about the hormones produced by the muscle, like myokines, for example, also hormones produced by the fat tissue adipokines, and there's some other signaling stuff. All of this is influx and can't, bother time is undefeated. Okay, that said, despite those negatives, muscles are still very responsive to activity. We've got evidence that people even in their 90s can get stronger, which I think is awesome. But as far as can we completely reverse aging, no. So that's primary sarcopenia, which to my mind, and we don't have evidence on this yet, but I would suspect that is a very rare or a minority of individuals with sarcopenia. To me, it's analogous to when we look at obesity, people say, oh, they're addicted to sugar, or they have food addiction. I'm like, well, that is a very narrow subset of individuals with obesity, but it does not represent the majority of individuals with obesity. So primary sarcopenia certainly does happen, but it's a minority of individuals with sarcopenia. Now, secondary sarcopenia occurs when there's one or more distinct causal factors that act in concert together to basically age the muscle faster. It's like an accelerant. You're pouring an accelerant on a fire here. So disuse is one of these. That's what I would suspect is the primary one, particularly in otherwise healthy individuals or mostly healthy individuals, but also chronic medical conditions that people tend to accumulate as they age. Now, that includes stuff like rheumatoid arthritis, COPD, as you mentioned, chronic kidney disease, heart failure, type 2 diabetes, the list goes on. There's a lot of inflammation goes on there. You can get these, like you said, catabolic crises, particularly if they're admitted to the hospital and taking other agents to treat why they're in the hospital for that catabolism. It could also be nutrition related, whether it's a person who has difficulty accessing foods of food insecurity or as individuals age, their appetite tends to go down. Protein intake tends to drop. So there can be some nutritional element here as well. Is that how you understand the kind of differences between primary and secondary sarcopenia? Yeah, for sure. I don't think that, at least in my type of clinical work that I would ever confidently diagnose a case of just primary sarcopenia, almost exclusively, even if the person tells me that they have no medical problems yet they somehow meet that criteria, it's often going to be attributable to insufficient physical activity and, as you mentioned, disuse. But my patient population that I tend to work with a bit more, at least outside of the barbell medicine context, where we select for people who generally don't have sarcopenia because they're here because they train, are going to be those hospitalized patients who have all those medical conditions that you described. Advanced end-stage organ system diseases affecting the lungs, the heart, the kidneys, the liver, all of those can lead to chronic inflammatory states, changes in appetite, changes in nutritional status. Among the worst of them tends to be cirrhosis in particular, where I think it's a very, very common and under-recognized issue, because a lot of patients with cirrhosis for a long time, they also tend to just retain a lot of water in various areas and then they tend to be swollen. And so they don't physically look as thin and frail, at least until the much later stages. And then you combine that with various other aspects of that disease and it can be particularly catastrophic for them. So most of the people that I see have some combination of insufficient activity, multi-morbidity, which is a fancy term to say they have multiple medical conditions, and sometimes even the drugs used to treat these conditions can have negative impacts on muscle. So like, for example, the frequency that people with COPD are put on prednisone, which is a catabolic steroid that can impact their amount of muscle mass over time, and then poor nutrition or insufficient nutrition in general kind of conspire to increase the prevalence of sarcopenia in my patient population in particular. Yeah, yeah. So to summarize before we move on to diagnosis, sarcopenia, which is size loss, dyna-penia, strength loss, and creatopenia, power loss, well, they're all different. Because strength declines about three times faster than muscle size and it correlates better to actual clinical outcomes like falls, fractures, mortality, etc., the modern guidelines on sarcopenia prioritize function strength for diagnosis over size loss alone, as muscle can be normal sized in sarcopenia but still dysfunctional. That's a nice segue into diagnosing sarcopenia. So how do you know you have it or a loved one has it? This is where things get kind of tricky because even when you look at the guidelines, it's not exactly clear like, hey, do this, it's based on awesome evidence. So just do this. Like, there's no like clinical practice guidelines, a bunch of consensus statements out there. But one of the things that you'll see if you dig into the literature or if you're working in the space is this idea of lead off with the questionnaire, this Sark F questionnaire, which stands for strength assistance with walking, rise from a chair, climb stairs, and falls, which kind of tells you what's in this questionnaire. The problem with this, and this is almost like a direct like analogy to BMI, it has a very high specificity in that if somebody has a positive test for a Sark F questionnaire, I'm feeling pretty confident that they likely do have sarcopenia. But if they don't meet criteria, which is a score of greater than four, I am not sure that they actually don't have it. So it's not very sensitive. It misses almost half of the people that do have sarcopenia, even if they take this test. So if you lower the threshold to a score of two or one, well, yeah, the sensitivity actually improves. And some authors, some researchers have suggested, well, yeah, it improves sensitivity, and it actually is not an unacceptable loss of specificity. And I suspect that's because in individuals being administered this questionnaire, the pretest probability of having sarcopenia is so high that it's like, we're not getting these questionnaires, you and I personally, but like older individuals generally speaking, because it's likely way under diagnosed, far more common than we think that, yeah, you just end up capturing a lot more people. Does that kind of jive with your understanding of this? Yeah, my thoughts on this, I think I've been kind of making some consistent arguments for many years about this at this point, basically starting out from the concept of what is a diagnostic label and what is the point of giving somebody a diagnosis. And from the patient perspective, of course, I understand that it can provide some sense of certainty, some closure, things like that. That's actually not what I'm talking about here from the clinical and management standpoint. What is the point of giving somebody a diagnosis? It is because that diagnosis should ideally inform some degree of our understanding about prognosis, and ideally should impact our management plan, what we do with the person. And so this is a situation where I actually, I'll start out with a different type of scenario to illustrate the point. It is important for me to make a specific diagnosis of cancer in somebody to rule in cancer or to rule out cancer if I'm considering potentially administering them chemotherapy, because I would not want to give chemotherapy to somebody who does not have cancer. Zero to one. And it might, it may be appropriate for somebody who does have cancer, right? In the context of sarcopenia at the present time, we're jumping briefly ahead to like treatment, we are not routinely administering these patients toxic drug therapies. We're not giving them ultra high doses of oral anabolic steroids or something like that. But rather the management of sarcopenia, the optimal management at least at present, involves kind of aggressive disease modification for the conditions they already have to improve health from that standpoint, increasing physical activity, training, nutritional support, things like that. None of these things carry with them such a disproportionate risk that I at least at present have a great deal of concern about the risk of potential over diagnosis here. Now, it might not make somebody feel good to have a diagnosis like this if they don't in fact have the condition. But if ultimately what I'm going to do or if ultimately what I would like for this label to do, especially if as it gains attention among clinicians in practice, be it primary care, hospital medicine, etc., is that it prompts a more dedicated discussion, potential referral to resources for more aggressive physical training interventions, nutrition interventions, things like that. I'm kind of okay with that at this point. With the caveat being that hey, to the extent that those resources might be limited, then yeah, you don't want to like insanely over diagnose people. But clinicians ought to be addressing this with patients, especially those who are at risk anyway. And so yeah, if you ask somebody about their strength or if they're needing assistance with walking or if they're having difficulty rising from a chair or climbing stairs, if they're falling, yeah, any one of those is enough to get me concerned. So in my mind, in my practice, if I'm asking those questions, yeah, a score of one is enough to get me concerned about this person. It might not be the most severe phenotype or the most severe manifestation of sarcopenia, where we need to pull out all the stops. But not unlike our discussions around cardiovascular disease and cholesterol management, it's this kind of cumulative lifelong thing. I'd rather catch you earlier on before you fall and you fracture your hip. And then I have to deal with the rehab on the back end of that, which is a much harder lift than addressing this a little bit earlier. So if I hear that somebody has any of the impairments in that questionnaire, that's already my first tip off that something ought to be done to kind of alter this patient's trajectory. All right. Well, let me play devil's advocate here then. All right. So we have this Sark F questionnaire. And I just imagine all of the obstacles for somebody to actually administer that in practice. So like, I got to download it, I got to ask the questions properly, got to record it, the EMR, whatever. Yeah. Let's just say in the bizarro world, this alternate reality that we now live in, that look, anybody past the age of, let's say 45 automatically, like as soon as your first visit encounter with the clinician at risk for sarcopenia pops up. And so at that point, it prompts the physician to basically counsel them on, hey, resistance training is going to be super important for you. Eating enough protein is going to be super important for you. You have these medical conditions, we should really try to optimize these because these are all things that you should be doing anyway to be clear. And the reason why that time point is so important as, again, we're jumping ahead a little bit, that the pathophysiology of sarcopenia, like when you get down to the level of muscle, this stuff starts in your 40s or even before that a little bit. So the idea is like, let's catch it early, let's have a large strength span or muscle span, whatever term you want to use. And so if we agree that this sort of like push, screw the sarc F, where everybody's going to get this counseling, because that would likely increase uptake, you know, I don't know, that's a big, that's a big, that's a big assumption that, you know, counseling more people in the  and the doctor's office would help more people exercise. I think there's some evidence I could argue that's not very strong, but it's there. I don't know, what do you think about that? Yeah, I think I'm generally prickly about the idea of instituting more things for primary care doctors to do. You know they're just gonna have that. There's, you know, they already have so many things that are mandated and some things that are actually far dumber that are mandated for them to have to do. Totally. And I wish that, you know, for me, in my practice, yeah, I don't actually use this questionnaire because I'm like having a conversation with the person and I'm observing them and I am very consciously attuned to this person's functional status and getting a sense of what is their life like and I watch them move and I try to get them up and walk them around the hospital room or something like that. And those things just tell me what I need to know even without meeting like checkbox criteria that take up that level of time. But I also understand that not all clinicians are like that. And so, you know, there's this fine line to walk between, what do we like mandate in clinical encounters and electronic medical records and things like that and like make doctors pull their hair out compared to just like getting to their patient and having a conversation that's individualized to them but also knowing that, hey, not everybody even does that. So it's a tough thing. I don't have a great answer for it. Yeah, man, I just think like, you know, look, the colonoscopy pops up at a particular age. I think this pops up at a certain age. You get more counseling about it. Maybe there's more uptake. Maybe there's more motivation like, or levers to pull during motivational interviewing. Anyway, okay, so that's the Sarkath. That's a questionnaire. There are other better metrics that if you really wanted to dive into like, hey, how's the muscle actually functioning? And so, grip strength, for example, is one of them. Studies indicate that grip strength values of less than 36 kilograms for men and less than 23 kilograms for women may identify, better identify probable sarcopenia than lower thresholds. And so theoretically, if you had this hand grip dynamometer, which if you've never done one of these things, you just squeeze it real, real hard and it comes up with the number. There's a bunch of interesting stuff on these tests, like which ones are better than others. It matters how textured the material is, the leverage, how big someone's hand is, the handedness, the person had all sorts of stuff. The weird thing is it doesn't correlate super well with actual improvements in dynamic strength. So like Austin, your squat has gone from 285 to over 600 pounds and I don't know that your hand grip strength has actually gone up that much. I know that your hand grip strength asymmetry has gone down, which anyway, that's for another podcast perhaps, but I'm just waiting for Apple to come out with the iPhone 18 Pro Max that actually has like a pressure transducer built into the case. And so you have people just squeeze the phone case and it tells you like, oh, you're at risk for sarcopenia. Look, they already got VO2 Max. Why not have like a grip strength hand built into the case or built into the phone? Do you, are you using grip strength at all? Like when you're going around seeing patients? No, I don't like it. I don't use it. It does require like a, you know, a calibrated or validated device and things like that. And that's just added complexity for little, you know, gain compared with just using a simple functional test as well as like talking to a person. Yeah, so you could use like a sit to stand test. Like, and this, if you're, look, if you're going home for Thanksgiving, you're going to see your loved ones for Thanksgiving, this is something you can do. You don't even need to tell them it's a test or if you do want to tell them it's a test, that's fine too. Maybe they'll try harder, which is ideal, you know, to get a more accurate sort of depiction of their functional status. So, hey, can you stand up from a chair five times as fast as you can? Don't use your arms. And so you can just do this at home. Basically, you start your stopwatch and if they do it under 15 seconds, you can feel a little bit better about their sarcopenia risk. And if it takes them longer than that or they have to use their arms, maybe then you can say, hey, why don't you come to the gym with me tomorrow? That'd be the best case scenario, right? Rather than saying you should work out. It's like, well, yeah, duh, they already knew that. How do you break that barrier? There are other tests, like appendicular skeletal muscle mass, which is a fancy way of saying how much muscle you're carrying. You can measure that with x-rays, that's a DEXA scan, or MRI or CT. I was impressed to learn that there's also another measure of specific muscle groups size, the lumbar muscle mass. And I'm just saying, I'm never getting sarcopenia if they measure my lumbar records. There has been some interesting evidence recently. This is a little bit of a side tangent, but on the use of essentially AI, looking at scans that people are already getting, for example, to estimate their bone density, because if people are already getting CT scans, there are algorithms to calculate their bone density based off their CT scans. And it's like, maybe you would be screening way more broadly, and it's using data that we're already collecting if you did that. And so I suspect that for anybody who's getting an abdomen pelvis CT scan, for example, there is a slice that you could take of their kind of maximum, I don't know, which of the spinal erector muscles or the iliasoas muscle cross-sectional area that they're using in these types of studies that you could collect that data based on what you're already scanning. Of course, the caveat here is that these imaging tools, again, are looking at muscle quantity or cross-sectional area size and not assessing function. The example that you previously gave, the sit to stand, that's like my favorite because I leverage it, not just from a diagnostic standpoint to assess the person's function, but hey, I turned it into their exercise program of like, hey, okay, cool, here's what we're gonna actually do is sets of this to strengthen your hip crudel and musculature and things like that. Yeah, you can also test somebody's gait speed, it's like a four meter walk test or even a 400 meter walk, there's like, can you do that? So yeah, other things you can do at home. So basically, there are a bunch of different tests that you can do. Now, you've kind of already, we're not really burying the lead here, just talking, but how do you diagnose sarcopenia in practice? Is it mostly just the sit to stand? And further, who gets screened and what if any confirmatory tests are needed after? Like, are you following the European working group, like specifically to the letter or are you just kind of cowboy out in a different thing here? No, I'm not actually following those. And this isn't to, you know, throw shade at them or to speak negatively about them, but it's rather that I'm very kind of attuned to this as an issue, point A. And then B is I have a patient population that is highly enriched for those with this diagnosis, meaning like my pre, what I'll call my pre-test probability, or like before I even walk in the hospital room, what's the likelihood that the person I'm about to see has this condition? And it is far higher compared with the general population, just because of where I work in an acute care hospital setting, dealing with mostly, you know, older multi-morbid types of patients. And then my sense of comfort with this involves A, like looking at the person, because at the extremes, it is easy to diagnose. When I see somebody who's thin and frail, skin and bones, and I can see their ribs and their temporal bones and things like that, then yeah, I am very likely to have made the diagnosis almost on site. And then through a conversation with them, depending on the nature of what brought them into the hospital, what their life is like at home, if they need help with accomplishing their activities of daily living, things like that, that'll further strengthen my case. And then if I get them up out of bed and walk them around, or sometimes I've done five times sit to stand in a hospital room and seen how they can do, and more often of the time, they're either unable to get up even once without using their arms, or they might need to use their arms, but it's still very slow. And obviously that'll prompt, not only inpatient physical therapy consultation, but it might prompt a conversation once the patient is ready for that, about the path forward in terms of what can be done. It's not always appropriate to have that conversation in the hospital setting, depending on the context. And if the person is in active respiratory failure, impending they're gonna die soon that I might not be having these conversations every single time. But like I said, given just how common it is in my population, I can look at the person, talk to the person, and then watch the person try to get up out of chair. And that's my more pragmatic sequence of events that doesn't involve carrying around a hand grip dynamometer and following a European working group algorithm or something like that. Yeah, not everybody needs the DEXA scan. Definitely not. So potentially, look if it affects up to 50% of people over the age of 80, and if it's maybe five to 13%, probably closer to 20% of the general population between like 60 and 70 or something like that, should more clinicians be doing what you're doing? What about fitness professionals? And I know, I just go back to your previous point, like look, if we identify this more, how does it change what we do? But I guess if people are looking for it, maybe they're gonna do something about it rather than just, well, they're just getting older. Yeah, I think so, especially when it's paired with more trained or skilled or effective behavioral kind of interviewing, motivational interviewing. I do think that clinicians should be doing it more often, but when I say doing it, again, I don't want to convey the idea that, oh, I'm just like stacking more requirements onto your plate because what I'm doing does not feel like, oh, I'm like checking off this additional box or it's this additional burden on me. Because again, I'm like walking in the room and like A, looking at the person, B, talking to them about their life and what it looks like at home and their ability to do the things that they want to be able to do, which is like part of normal history taking anyway, and then standing them up and that's also part of a routine kind of exam. So it's almost like when we talked about, hey, let's use AI to analyze these measures that we're already getting off a CT scan. This is just me paying attention during the history and physical that I'm already doing. So it's not actually adding a ton in terms of clinical burden, but rather if I'm able to identify the issue and tie it to something meaningful to the person, then that is my lead point to get into the motivational interviewing aspect. If they want to be able to do something and they can't right now, and it's like, well, I just noticed that you had a hard time standing up out of that chair. Do you think that if we were able to do something to get you being able to pop up out of that chair more and more quickly and robustly that you'd be able to do these things that you want to be able to do? Oh, yeah, sure. Okay, let's talk about some strategies that we could use to get you there. So it is baked into what I'm already doing. And again, just the context of where you are can impact this. So if somebody's a fitness professional and you have somebody who strolls into your gym and wants to get started with personal training, yeah, they're already addressing this if they have it, but they probably don't have it in the first place, or at least they're less likely. My person who I'm seeing in the hospital for a hip fracture, 100% chance nearly that they already have it because they fell and they very likely have osteoporosis. And so they probably also have sarcopenia. And so I'm like, my case has already closed before I even walk in the room in most of those situations. So that's kind of the spectrum that we're talking about here. Yeah, yeah, good advice. All right, so we know that with poor muscle function as evidenced by reduced strength, power, and overall performance, the risk of losing independence skyrockets. But we want to catch people way before they are at the cliff. So we're going to talk about the physiology because this is where barbell medicine differs from everyone else saying that sarcopenia is just age-related muscle loss. This isn't just atrophy, it's a neurological event, and we'll get into the physiology right after this break. All right, we're back here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. We're talking about sarcopenia. Now we're into the physiology. We're going to go into why does sarcopenia occur in the first place? And I think the overarching sort of paradigm here is that muscle quality decreases. And what is muscle quality? Well, that's a specific term relating to the amount of strength or power. Really, it's force production created per unit mass. Okay, so muscle quality can be measured as the amount of strength, power, force production produced per unit mass. And this goes down in sarcopenia. So the mass may stay the same or decrease a little bit, but the loss of strength, power, and ultimately force production far outpaces that. But why does this happen? So first up, we're going to talk about motor neurons whereas my neuroanatomy professor said motor neurons. And if that is the correct pronunciation, like shout out to Dr. Tolbert, because I've just ignored that you said that for an entire year, do you think it's like umbilicus versus umbilicus? Yeah, it's somebody that probably said it that way with him way back in the day and it stuck. Or like, do you say duodenum or do you say duodenum? Duodenum. Yeah, okay, same. But like in anatomy, when I was doing my anatomy masters, they were like, it's not that. I'm like, okay, well, I'm just gonna be an idiot the rest of my life. In any case, motor neurons, motor neurons, what these are, these are nerves that go from your spinal cord to your muscles, your skeletal muscles. And so specifically what happens as people age is that these alpha motor neurons, these specifically the ones that innervate or connect to your high threshold, fast twitch or type two muscle fibers, these things die. And when these neurons die, a nearby slow neuron tends to sprout a branch to try to go rescue this abandoned muscle fiber. So the muscle fiber itself, if it's connected by one of these sprouts, one of these branches, the muscle fiber typically survives, but then it's converted to a slow twitch or type one muscle fibers. So you lose your high gear from these type two muscle fibers, which is why you lose power first. You lose this writing reflex, the ability to catch yourself when you trip or rising quickly from a chair. And so that's why people fall and ultimately can fracture a hip, for example. This selective loss of type two muscle fibers explains why muscle power declines so much faster than strength, and why strength declines so much faster than muscle size, and that's why falls are common with aging. This kind of leads into this reversibility sort of question, like, can we reverse sarcopenia? Well, you can't regrow a dead motor neuron, you can only strengthen the ones that are left, and this is why prevention tends to be superior to treatment. And so we've got tons of evidence on this. If you take a muscle biopsy of an individual sarcopenia and you look at it under a microscope, you see a dramatic shrinking of the type two muscle fibers by up to 50%, while type one muscle fiber size tends to be the same. And at age 70, an individual may lose 25 to 50% of their alpha motor neurons compared to what they had when they were age 20. And so the next question then becomes, well, why? Why does this happen? Well, these type two muscle fibers, these fast-twitch muscle fibers, they cost a lot. The metabolic demand of these muscle fibers is higher. They also require a lot of signaling from the environment to maintain them. So mechanotransduction, loading them, being active with them, compared to type one muscle fibers that are just like postural, for example, and you're gonna use them regardless of if you exercise or not. And ultimately with this disuse, not only do the muscle fibers like not have any reason to stick around, but the actual satellite cells or stem cells for the muscles that we call satellite cells basically become unresponsive. And so you lose not only the muscle fiber, right? It changes its morphology and the nerve also kind of goes away, but also the machinery you had to repair the muscle fiber when it gets damaged also goes away. And it's mostly from disuse, although again, we can't completely stop this aging, this biological clock. Interestingly though, with training, again, you can't stop the aging process entirely, but strength training is kind of like a firewall here. It doesn't just build muscle, but it changes the survival rate of these type two, these fast-twitch muscle fibers that are typically destined to die. Now, the activity, engaging in resistance training, sends a signal back to the nerve cell, says, hey, look, I'm still needed. Please don't kill me. I need me around. And this is evidenced by master's athletes, specifically those who engage in resistance training. Because you see master's athletes that are endurance athletes. Previously talked about Natalie Grabo, that 80 something year old who completed the Ironman, which also amazing. But if you look at older runners, they generally show high levels of what's called fiber type grouping. Now, normally under a microscope, your muscle looks like a mosaic. You got fast-twitch, slow-twitch, and it looks like a mosaic. When you get these fiber type grouping, that's evidence that your type two muscle fibers have kind of gone away, and they just have a bunch of type one muscle fibers. So endurance performance is great, but they're not doing much with that type of training for these type two fast-twitch muscle fibers. Resistance training, on the other hand, the story is different. Lifelong strength athletes often show less type two fiber loss and a fiber distribution pattern that looks more like a young person's. So heavy resistance training doesn't just help slow the loss of neurons, it prevented the death of them in the first place. So, and this is evidenced by some interesting data in power lifters, so shout out to power lifters, because I know that the person, the author of the study had to be a power lifter to look at power lifters. There's no way anybody else is interested. The typical general population sees a strength decline of about 1% per year after middle age, accelerating significantly after the age of 60 due to, again, this loss of alpha motor neurons. Strength athletes do much better. In this study on power lifters, men over the age of 69 showed a decline of only 0.35% per year, and women over the age of 59 actually displayed a 2.5 to 5% improvement in strength if they kept participating in power lifting. So this neurogenic atrophy or neuron cell death kills type two muscle fibers, and the general population is slowed in lifelong lifters by like 300%. Really the difference is 0.35% to 1%, which I think is pretty awesome. Yeah, that's an awesome finding, very cool, nice find. Everybody should be a power lifter, I think is the take away. We just end the podcast. Yeah. But there's another factor, so that's the story with motor neurons, all right? But there's another factor, it's not just one thing, that one weird trick, there's another thing going on here. Anabolic resistance tends to become much more prevalent. So Dr. Baraki, what is anabolic resistance and why is it so important here? Yeah, it is a concept, another one that we've been talking about for a long time, and we're kind of more formally addressing here, it's this idea that when you deliver at what we'll call a dose of anabolic stimulus to somebody, and those anabolic stimuli tend to be most importantly physical training, or mechanical stimulus to the body, to the muscles, and secondarily to that dose of, say, dietary protein, amino acids, for example, different people will have a different anabolic response to that dose. So some people might mount a very large anabolic response, a lot of muscle protein synthesis, and others might display a more blunted anabolic response, or a lesser degree of muscle protein synthesis. And in this situation that we're calling anabolic resistance, it is kind of the term used to describe that more blunted response to anabolic stimulus. We tend to see it more often in older folks, although again, I kind of hesitate to ascribe it to aging alone, just like when we hesitated to ascribe sarcopenia to aging alone. Anabolic resistance we know is more common in the context of that, what I called multi morbidity, or when people have multiple, you know, concomitant medical conditions, especially in the like very acute settings. So for example, if somebody is admitted to the ICU with a raging illness or bad case of sepsis, multi organ failure or something like that, we know that they tend to be very, very anabolically resistant, not to mention that they're generally laid up in bed nearly 24 hours a day, things like that. But even outside of this condition with complex medical conditions, acute conditions and chronic conditions, those who tend to be less physically active or have more sedentary behavior in general, that tends to be a significant contributor, especially as folks get older as well. Now, we know that this phenomenon of anabolic resistance is not destiny, it is not permanent, it is something that can be overcome if we adjust that dose of stimulus that we deliver to the person. So this has also been studied to where, for example, in exercise contexts, increasing the volume and or the intensity of activity that is being delivered to the person can restore a degree of sensitivity to that anabolic stimulus, meaning that whereas somebody who is generally sedentary and not moving around and then they might do a set or two sets or something of an exercise might get a lesser anabolic response, if we increase that to three sets or four sets or push the intensity a little bit higher of their conditioning activity, we tend to see a more significant muscular response to that activity. And similarly, when we give them a dose of 10 or 15 or 20 grams of dietary protein, including in particular the amino acid leucine, where it might be a gram or two of that, in that dose of protein of up to say 20 grams, they might have a lesser response in terms of their muscle protein synthesis. But if you increase that to 30 grams of protein or even 40 grams of protein, you might restore that anabolic response. I think that this has been taken, maybe because it's telling some people what they want to hear based on their bias of what we'll call it protein maxing these days, to where they think that, oh, if this is, as people get older, they just need to have more and more massive amounts of protein and that'll solve this issue. But this has also been looked at and just increasing protein intake does not meaningfully impact outcomes in these types of situations. It is supportive of adaptation and recovery and things like that to the training, but on its own, you are unlikely to build a significant degree more muscle just by increasing the dietary protein alone. And so for that reason, both of us I think tend to emphasize way more importantly, the idea of the physical activity, the training, as well as addressing any reversible underlying health factors that you can actually address to restore that degree of sensitivity. We even know that if you take folks and they do a little bit of activity prior to the protein meal, that they can be more sensitive to that lower dose again. So it's almost like your post-workout protein bolus from a shake or from a meal or something like that, they're more likely to have some evidence of restored sensitivity to that when it's taken after physical activity, a brisk walk or an actual lift or some interval training, whatever you're able to get them to do, that sensitivity improves rather than somebody tending to remain insufficiently active and just like taking more protein shakes throughout the day is not gonna meaningfully impact their trajectory here. Yeah, further, even like when people are in the hospital and they're on like a steady, a drip of just like, protein and food. And troll feeding, yeah. They become very anabolic resistant. Now some of that is due to the disease process that got them in the hospital the first time, but that food situation is not helping them. Not that the hospital food in and of itself is like anabolic resistant, just the frequency at which it's being administrated, which is continuous is a problem. All right, well now that we know why sarcopenia occurs, let's talk about what to do about it. Now Austin, how do you normally speak to your patients with sarcopenia about management? You know, did the assessment, you got them up out of bed, you had them do the sit to stand maybe and you're like, dang, this person is much weaker than they should be. How do you talk to them about this? Yeah, much like conversations around non-specific low back pain, where I never use the term non-specific low back pain in these situations, I also never really tend to use the term sarcopenia. I basically do the assessment and I again, try to get a sense of what the person's day to day life and function are like and what their goals might be to improve that function if they have those goals or what their general health goals are. And I basically try to find an in into the conversation in real time where I can tie what are going to be my recommendations for managing sarcopenia to something meaningful to the person, right? So it's kind of like when we have conversations about back pain or osteoarthritis or whatever, you know, condition might be ailing them. What do you want to be able to do? And then are you open to negotiating a plan that might help you get to that goal? So making it meaningful to the person. And so it's the same thing here. If the person has no goals or interest or aspiration in improving their health or function, then I can talk to them all day about sarcopenia or that it's increasing their risk of all sorts of things and it's, I'm going to not make any meaningful progress. But if I can get a sense of what the person's life is like, what they want to be able to do that they can't do now, or if they have a particular health goal and tie it to the very demonstrable impaired function that I just showed them by virtue of the fact that they were unable to get up out of a chair, then I might be able to kind of weave a narrative that makes sense to them to where they, you know, by working on that and improving that ability, they will then regain or build the ability to achieve the goal that they had in mind, the meaningful activity or improve their health in the way that matter to them most. So I know that was a very high level, kind of general description, but that's really the approach that I take. There's not a formula to this. It's one of those things where having more experience with having these conversations and the process of motivational interviewing, you end up getting more comfortable listening to people and you can kind of in real time hear these little threads that they're offering up to you that, oh, I might tug on that a little bit and see if that ends up being a useful lead point into this process of, you know, here's a way that we can intervene or something that we can negotiate a plan that ties into something that you care about and that you're willing to, you know, have some buy-in. And if I have a family member there or a spouse there or a sibling or somebody who is able to kind of be present as well to listen to this conversation, maybe to contribute to the conversation, maybe to offer to join in to this process, that's another way that I sometimes do this in practice. Even, and this applies to general exercise counseling as well. I remember recently having a gentleman in the hospital for a new onset atrial fibrillation and he had obesity and he drank, you know, too much alcohol and he had just some metabolic syndrome and various risk factors for developing a fib. And I had this whole conversation and he was unaware that any of those things contributed to his atrial fibrillation and he really wanted to, you know, address it because of various, you know, life circumstances that I'll leave out for now, but his wife was there as well and she was all about it and they were both, you know, willing to, you know, leave the hospital and act on this, especially knowing that by intervening on these things, it would impact something meaningful to them while also reducing his risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation. So that's kind of the key method that I would apply. And so recommendations for people who are wanting to get into it really has to do with getting some experience and practice with motivational interviewing. And then if you have the really solid understanding of the condition that you're trying to intervene on, then you can kind of weave those things together in real time much more effectively. Yeah, yeah, that to me is where the fund of knowledge stuff where you know the pathophysiology, you know what the person, you know, the risk factors and so on and so forth, you can take that with your fund of knowledge with respect to exercise prescription, weave them together and bada-bing bada-boom. Yeah, that's 100% success rate, that's how that works. We wish. When I think about management here, I think about two distinct sort of like use cases. One is gonna be prevention and the other one is gonna be, well, what do after someone has received a diagnosis of either sarcopenia or like, you know, at risk for sarcopenia. So let's start with prevention. In both cases, exercise is gonna be one of the biggest lever that we can pull as far as why. Well, we know that we retain muscle plasticity, whether we have sarcopenia or not, but even in old age, you can get stronger even into the 90s. We have good evidence of that. And we know that exercise, specifically resistance training, reduces the loss of those motor neurons. So you don't lose the type two muscle fibers. So you don't lose the strength and the power. So you don't have the fall. So you don't break your hip. So you don't end up seeing Dr. Baraki. There are easier ways to see Dr. Baraki than breaking your hip in the state of Texas. We know we have good evidence from master's athletes showing that it slows down aging and also preserves muscle mass and other interesting things within the muscle, the muscle capitalization. So how many blood capillaries do you have? Which is important for amino acids to make their way to the muscles, for sugar to make its way to the muscles, all these sorts of things. As far, so that's the why. As far as how, the physical activity guidelines are fine. Resistance train twice a week, do at least 150 minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity cardio, that would be like steady state stuff. Or you can do 75 minutes, at least of vigorous intensity. Conditions would be a little harder where you can't really speak in short sentences. For example, that's like the minimum. I'd probably prefer something close to like double that because I think there are additional benefits afterwards. Not only on function and performance, but also in like reducing risk of sarcopenia later on. Basically you get to build this big base of physical development. Your 401K, your physical 401K is fully funded. And should you need to make a withdrawal later, well, you got some in reserve. And also you can be aggressive, with more aggressive with respect to actually delivering that training load to an individual. Mostly because these people are starting with a higher level of fitness, generally because they have less medical comorbidities. There's been less sort of disuse over the years. And so you can be a little more aggressive as far as working up to that. You should still be gradual, but you don't have to take special care because the population you're dealing with is less frail, less risk, less risky. So that's the exercise situation. From a nutrition standpoint, we'd still recommend getting about 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per total kilogram body weight. That's kilogram body weight. So you could, if you want to think 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound, that's fine per day. But there's no micromanagement here. Meaning like I'm not worried about where you're getting the protein from. I'm not worried about how much protein's in each meal, anything like that. Just at the end of the day, are you getting about this much protein? And that's all well and good. Check the box. Supplements in this.  ab excuses. And I read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on this read on need for all of the protein to be animal derived for like optimal efficiency and bioavailability and things like that. And we have talked about this before that when studies have looked at actual outcomes of muscle gain and strength gain when people are consuming enough protein in the doses that we're recommending, it actually doesn't matter whether it comes from animal or plant derived sources. And we can make an argument that for when people tend to bias it more in that plant derived direction, they also will tend to derive a number of additional health benefits as well. And so to the extent that if I have somebody with cardiovascular disease or chronic kidney disease and they're asking me, should I continue or you're telling me I need protein, should I be consuming a couple rib eyes a day or should I consume a variety of protein sources from beans and legumes and lentils and tofu and various other sorts of plant derived sources, I would say, I'm not strictly in opposition to animal derived protein sources, but I definitely encourage the consumption of many of those plant derived sources as well because those will also stand to benefit your underlying medical conditions to a greater degree. Your cardiovascular disease, your chronic kidney disease, things like that, especially when consumed in sufficient doses, there's a lot of other benefits to be had from the other plant derived compounds, the polyphenols, the fiber content, the differences in fat composition and impact on lipids and all sorts of other things. So yeah, I don't, I want to strongly distinguish our recommendations here for nutrition compared with what folks might hear in many other conversations around sarcopenia in this space that like aggressively narrow in on it has to be animal derived for bioavailability reasons or some other nonsense like that. Yeah, not an evidence base take. And further, if you're like, well, look, but whey is animal derived, I should replace my whey protein with soy protein and then boom, more plant based. That's what they said. That's probably not going to make a difference. In fact, I'd feel strongly that it's not, but instead if you're getting more protein instead of it being steak or, you know, other sort of protein like that, and instead of you're getting it from plant based sources, whether it's tofu or something similar, that's what we're talking about. More vegetable matter, more plant matter, generally speaking, it just tends to displace foods that are high in calories, not very filling, low in fiber and may have other sort of things that you really want to limit to some degree like saturated fats from animal sources, for example. But yeah, just swapping like a whey protein shake for a soy protein shake is not going to do anything. All right. So that's the story with preventing sarcopenia to the extent that we can. And then from a health perspective under that umbrella, look, try to avoid obviously any chronic medical condition and the ones that you do have, try to optimize them, address them. Don't just say, later when I'm older, because all of these things can certainly contribute to developing secondary sarcopenia like we mentioned earlier. Now, so that's the first kind of umbrella or bucket that I kind of think about. The second one is individuals who have been diagnosed with sarcopenia or who are at high risk for sarcopenia. The first level we're going to try to pull here is exercise again. And why? Well, we can't regain the motor neurons that we've already lost, but we can still get stronger both in low velocity sort of applications, so traditional resistance training, but also high velocity stuff, so more power, which is better for avoiding falls, which is better for avoiding that hip fracture as a secondary to that fall. So you can improve performance. All that is well and good. Now, when you look at the evidence on actual training outcomes, those things readily improve strength, low and high velocities, that's power, readily improve and improve performance on whatever performance battery you want to give somebody. Improving muscle mass seems to be a little more challenging, but I'm kind of okay with that. Folks to get jacked too, but if they don't gain a bunch of muscle mass, but gain a bunch of function, that's better for sure. And we can also then preserve existing muscle and improve its function, ultimately better quality of life. So that's the why. Easy sell for most folks, especially if they already have a diagnosis of sarcopenia. As far as how, well, this is where it starts to get a little different. So we want people to get at least to these physical activity guidelines and ultimately beyond, but because they're more vulnerable, likely due to a long-term chronic disuse, right? So insufficient activity and being ultimately under-trained, they're a little more vulnerable to the dosing right out of the gate. So starting a little bit lower than you otherwise would is reasonable advice. But in saying that, I also must speak out of the other side of my mouth that I have a lot of concerns about under-loading and under-training this population. You want to avoid injury risk, for example, but you also want to avoid spinning your wheels and just saying, yeah, this is good enough, like just walking, for example, or lifting very, very light weights that aren't anywhere close to failure or intentionally slow tempos for some particular reason. All of these things would be less likely to provide benefits. So you're kind of riding a fine line here, and ultimately you would want an experienced individual to be at the helm. But yeah, we are offering some resources for this, so I just redid our beginner program. Now previously, this was mostly for younger individuals or other folks who kind of made their way to barbell medicine, and they're like, what do you do? I'm just starting out. What do I do? This is more public-facing, but there's going to be a number of different programs in there. One is an express sort of program. It's two days a week. It's completely based on machines and dumbbells. Whether or not this is more accessible to the general public, I suspect yes, just because it's like, look, I can do a leg press all day, but you want me to squat with a bar on my back, I'm not going to do it. While I'd like to unpack that later, I can't do that in an article, at least not to my satisfaction. So that's going to be one of the included templates. It might be perceived as less intimidating, ultimately easier to increase participation, and there'll be a version of that that's aimed at individuals who are either at risk for sarcopenia or who have sarcopenia. So it's going to be a slightly lower dose. So you get those two templates, a more three-day traditional-type template for folks who are like, look, I'm 25 years old. I've never lifted weights before, but I want to be serious about it. What do? So you get all of that. That's coming out this week, so stay tuned to the Barbell Medicine Channels. You'll check that out. Now, existing data on optimal programming appears very weak for individuals with sarcopenia, and I suspect it's either AI-generated or some sort of English second language-type thing because this is like the latest meta-analysis on this, and I'm going to read a direct quote from this. Okay. A recommended 19-week program includes three sessions per week at 49% of a 1RM, featuring 15 exercises per set, six sets, and 16 repetitions per exercise, totaling up to 1,400 reps weekly. This is a quote? That is a direct quote. This is the worst AI hallucination I've ever, either that or the worst coach I've ever heard. 100%. Yeah. So, yeah, unfortunately, there's not great guidelines here for optimal programming metrics. Now, just the way I think about programming in general, one of the acronyms that's used to your frequently is fit VP, where that stands for frequency, intensity, time, type, volume, and progression. Right? Now, frequency is mostly a tool that we can leverage to distribute the exercise over the course of generally a week based on a person's preferences. It doesn't really matter how you split it up, provided a person can do it. All right? So, that's mostly a personal preference thing. Intensity, on the other hand, is not really negotiable here. We need the individual to be lifting weights with a rep range somewhere between like three to 20 reps, and most of those sets should be fairly challenging but not maximal. So, depending on the rep scheme that you pick, that's going to determine the absolute load on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, but it should be pretty challenging. So, that's the intensity that you can't mail that in. It has to be somewhat challenging, and they should try to move each rep with intention quickly if possible. They try to get those fast-twitch muscle fibers to stick around. Time, this is mostly related to conditioning, but they should be doing conditioning as well, because this appears to combat not only anabolic resistance, it improves the mitochondrial dysfunction that is prevalent in individuals with sarcopenia and concurrent training is not a problem, plus all of the other sarcopenia-independent-type benefits of cardiovascular fitness improvement. So, that's time. As far as type, exercise selection is really up to the individual what they're willing to do. If you want machines, that's fine. You want dumbbells, that's fine. You want free weights, like barbell-based, that's fine. Two kettlebells, I don't care. Just have to do it. I do think there are some unique benefits with freestanding exercise from like a balanced perspective and like moving the body in space. Perhaps that would be useful to an individual who's worried about falls, for example. But on the other hand, a person who's already worried about falls, ask them to walk out of weight and be challenging, and perhaps that would limit the load that they can use, ultimately compromising their outcomes. In that case, a leg press might be a better, quote, strengthening exercise to start, whereas the squat training like a freestanding squat would be more like skill practice at first. And then volume, again, I said it's going to be a little lower than you would otherwise want, but gradually increasing over time. And progression is the same as we've always described. Progressive loading as somebody's fitness improves, as their training tolerance improves, as they get stronger, they are required to put more weight on the bar, the machine, the dumbbell, whatever, to match their newfound fitness. That's the story on programming. You'll see that reflected in the new Sarcopenia version of the Express Beginner program. That'll be up on the website. It'll be freely available, so your parents won't have to download the Marbelle Medicine app to get a free program. But yeah, we'll have that. So that's the training story. Nutrition story is much the same, but with some additional nuances. So the same protein target, 1.2 to 1.6 grams of protein per kilogram body weight per day, or like 0.6 to 0.8 grams per pound. But there is some micro-management here, because I do really want each meal to contain a significant protein bolus, meaning that I don't want them to have all of their protein at one meal, and I don't want all of the protein to be from sources that don't contain all the essential amino acids or a high concentration of them. It doesn't mean they should avoid plant-based proteins entirely, but paying some additional attention to this can be important for two reasons. One, anabolic resistance is prevalent, but the big issue, I'm less concerned about that, particularly in an active population, I'm more concerned with these folks. Their appetite tends to be low. They tend not eat a lot of protein in general anyway, and so if they're just like, oh, I get more protein from beans, and you're like, well, that's true, and I like the fiber, and I like all the other stuff, but I really want something that has more essential amino acids in it. So a whey protein supplement can be pretty useful here, particularly for individuals who struggle meeting their protein target. I also feel maybe slightly more optimistic about how creatine could positively affect somebody's life. There does seem to be some good data here on it improving lean mass outcomes and improve sit-to-stand performance compared to individuals receiving a placebo. You don't need to take 20 grams a day like that idiot Rhonda Patrick said. You can take three to five grams per day. That's the dose. If somebody wants, that's fine. There are other sort of supplement recommendations that have very weak evidence and would not routinely recommend. So like vitamin D, it has some evidence around reduced fall risk and improved bone health. So if an individual has osteoporosis, they're going to be on vitamin D or have been recommended to take vitamin D anyway, but I don't think it changes anything with respect to sarcopenia proper. I got fish oil and I saw HMB in one of these papers and I was like, we know that HMB doesn't do anything. So I would not recommend those two routinely. Vitamin D, I'm kind of whatever. Do you feel differently about vitamin D since you're the vitamin D whisperer? Right. No. No. I mean, I agree that this population, similar to how I described how like my hospital population is enriched for those with sarcopenia, those with sarcopenia most often due to the collection of medical conditions that they have are also enriched for having vitamin D deficiency. If the person is willing to take a supplement to improve that, then that's fine. But I'm not similar to creatine. I'm not pitching it as a game changer and certainly not as like getting equal emphasis in our conversation compared with training. Yep. Yep. Biggest level to pull for sure is going to be training for sure. And lastly about medicine. So individuals with sarcopenia tend to have multiple medical problems and so optimizing this chronic disease management from a medical standpoint would be useful like obesity. For example, we'll talk a little bit more about this in about 180 seconds. If somebody has testosterone deficiency, that would be a good time to potentially investigate that. It does. If you have an individual testosterone deficiency and then they're placed on testosterone replacement therapy, TRT, they do see an increase in muscle mass. But improvements in gait speed or like physical battery tests don't necessarily go up if a person is not actually exercising. Just again, showing that mechanotransduction is the ruler of all these things. You have to exercise. Yep. 100%. And other things, if somebody's got autoimmune disease, inflammatory condition, other sort of primary disease, that should be optimized as well. And then also something that may kind of be last on your list of things to do. Just last on our outline here is a sort of medication reconciliation. So beta blockers, for example, or glucocorticoids or other medications that either promote anabolic resistance or otherwise lead to decreased exercise or reduced exercise intensity are all of these things. That's tough. Yeah. I would not recommend just coming off these things just because you're listening to this podcast. Don't go pour grandma's medications down the toilet. That's not what we're saying, but these are things to have conversations about the risks and benefits, especially because sarcopenia and decreased sort of function can compromise somebody's ability to live independently. Yeah. These are things that are, I think, underrated in terms of their importance to talk about. And unfortunately, in the same way that not all clinicians are going to be as facile and comfortable with the types of conversations that I described earlier with patients around this, many clinicians get out of date or lazy with their use of medicines in this space. So routine use of beta blockers for blood pressure management and there are other situations where beta blockers have historically been used that now we're learning are probably not ideal uses. So in certain forms of heart failure, we thought maybe it would help and now we're using less of it in, again, certain types of heart failure or in certain other contexts where there are some types of beta blockers that are better than others. And then certainly with glucocorticoids or thin medicines like prednisone, especially when they're prescribed all the time for bouts of back pain and things like that, not ideal, of course, that's usually for a relatively short, short course, but repeated short courses over time can be problematic if they're potentially avoidable. And then if certainly if somebody's on long term prednisone, that's more often like for a reason. But if it's being done by a wise clinician, they should also have in the back of their mind, hey, what methods can I use to try to get this person on the lowest dose possible or on a steroid sparing agent to get them off of the glucocorticoid or the prednisone altogether, because that is almost always preferable to somebody being on long term prednisone therapy as an example. Yep. All right. Now we're going to transition to the last part of this podcast, lightning round. Quick answers to some common internet comments surrounding sarcopenia. First off, and this is one of the things that maybe initiated the development of barbell medicine. Walking is enough. Just walk more. You know, walking has had kind of a glow up, you know, hot girl walks. I don't know if there's an analogous hot dude walks, but if I'm trying to do that, walking is enough. Decidedly, no, in this case, we have good evidence from endurance athletes who, by the way, are doing way more than just walking, much more intensity, but they still do not avoid that type two muscle fiber loss. So no, not going to be enough. Have to do resistance training. It has to be challenging enough to force those type two muscle fibers, those motor neurons or motor neurons, depending on how you say it, to stick around. Non-negotiable. Walking is not enough. Walking is great. You got to listen weights too. Yeah, I agree. And I think, you know, to put a firmer point on this, you mentioned a little bit of a distinction between those in whom we're trying to prevent sarcopenia versus those who already have it and in whom we're trying to treat it. And it kind of reminds me to some extent of our discussions around like cardiovascular disease, for example, where given that it's a lifelong process, if you start away earlier in life, you don't necessarily have to be quite as aggressive, right? You can do some just like, you know, relatively low level run of the activity, do a little bit of lifting here and there. And even though it might not be enough to maximize your strength or your conditioning, it may will be enough to prevent you from developing significant sarcopenia in older age if you're consistent with it across your entire lifespan. Similar to, you know, reasonable control of your blood pressure or your blood lipids throughout your life is probably enough to avert the risk of a cardiovascular event pretty significantly. On the other hand, after somebody has a heart attack, as an example of a cardiovascular event, we have to like turn up the dial to 11 on our control of their risk factors, get their blood pressure as well controlled as we can, get their lipids as tightly controlled as we can. We get very aggressive, very fast after one of those types of events. And in the same way, if somebody does have clinic, what we'll call clinical sarcopenia or certainly a complication from it, like if they have a significant fall with consequences with or without a fracture, for example, suddenly I'm like, you know, wanting to be much more aggressive and particular with all of these things. Now, it might not be the same where where I'm able to immediately institute maximum dose strength and conditioning training, but it's much more essential that they do it and that we progress it, you know, as aggressively as their physiology and recovery will tolerate if we want to reduce the risk of further complications down the line. So the stakes get higher, the intensity of your intervention has to get higher as well. Is the Pilates craze going to contribute to an increase in sarcopenia prevalence in about 20 years from now? I don't know that it's going to increase in prevalence, but it's probably not going to significantly decrease the prevalence. Not helping. Not helping. That's for sure. Also, excellent spinal tap reference. All right. Lightning around question number two. Well, isn't it true that if I stop lifting, a muscle is going to turn into fat? No, there are two distinct tissues, thing one. So it's not like just the muscle that you have is going to like turn into fat. Well, and just like the fat that you have is not going to turn into muscle. That said, as Austin talked about earlier, myosteatosis and lipotexicity is real. You get this lipid overflow of excess fat and it gets deposited in the muscle cells. Now this does all sorts of weird stuff. One, it exacerbates insulin resistance so the muscle is less responsive to all sorts of cool stuff like protein, like glucose, like mechanotransduction. And it also damages the mitochondria in the muscles themselves. So it makes it work. They don't work quite as well. Still, the biggest change that happens between these two compartments, muscle and fat, as people age, they tend to lose strength, which outpaces the muscle size loss and fat mass also tends to grow. But they're not transitioning to one or the other. So that doesn't work. Okay, Austin, take on this, the third lightning round question. It's unsafe to lift after 60. Old people can't lift heavy. What's up with that? Yeah, my admittedly anecdotal evidence on this that I'll share with you is that I'm thinking back over my past, say, decade seeing people in an emergency department and hospital setting. And I have admitted probably zero patients in the 60-plus demographic to the hospital for a complication of lifting. They certainly might show up for a tweak or a strain or a sprain or some ache or pain or routine musculoskeletal injury that are, as we have talked about before, they tend to be non-catastrophic. Whereas I have admitted, presumably, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of folks whose conditions may well have been mitigated or prevented altogether if they had been lifting across the lifespan, even if there was some degree of trade-off for some nominal increase in musculoskeletal ache, pain, or injury risk, which in my mind would be acceptable to me, compared with the risk and complications that I observe in terms of their cardiometabolic health, falls, fractures, injuries, all sorts of other things that are more significant. So if I were seeing septigenarians coming into the hospital left and right for deadlift complications, then we'd be having a different conversation, but ain't the case. So my argument is that it is much riskier to not lift in this demographic than it is to lift. Yeah, life is not a risk-free endeavor. And you have a risk of injury even if you don't exercise. And fortunately, the risk of lifting weights, even heavy weights, even if you don't do it with, quote, perfect form, is relatively low. That state on this is about two to four injuries per thousand participation hours, which is not dissimilar from cycling or recreational walking, particularly if you include motor vehicle accidents that happen there. But that's a separate podcast. In this population, lifting is also very safe. There's not an influx of just injuries, even when they're doing powertraining, like plyometrics, which I probably wouldn't exactly have folks do, but sure, maybe. So yeah, relatively safe. And the risk of not exercising far outweighs the risk from lifting heavy. Most injuries that do occur are not catastrophic. They resolve on their own within about two weeks. They don't require specialized medical attention. So yeah, you should lift. Last lightning round question. Well, Dr. Baraki, look, man, all these GLP-1 agonists, ozempic, wagovie, zepbound, et cetera, aren't they just causing sarcopenia? They are definitely not in general. Now, I will say that there have been some situations where, for example, I have seen maybe a patient who had advanced cancer and they also had diabetes and they were on one of these medicines for their diabetes. And maybe they started cancer treatment and they had no appetite and they're losing weight. And I'm like, okay, well, maybe this isn't the best medicine for you. Those cases are few and far between. As we will discuss on another upcoming podcast discussing GLP-1 agonists in very great degree of detail, these medicines are very useful. And despite the hysteria around them reducing, quote unquote, lean body mass, we'll talk about in that episode, there's differences between impacts on lean body mass versus on muscle mass. Those are not the same thing. And additionally, as we have made the case this entire podcast, muscle mass is not the primary variable of interest here because we know that it's possible to have more muscle mass, but poorer muscle quality if there's a whole bunch of fat in it. And so based on some other very interesting recent evidence, based on certain diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia, the semilean study that you have cited and that we'll talk about there as well actually showed that it reduced the incidence of sarcopenia because as people lost weight, their physical function improved as you addressed their obesity, their physical function was able to get better, which actually led more people to no longer meet criteria for sarcopenia. So I think that obviously clinicians need to use their brain when they're prescribing these medicines. So if somebody's coming in with a starting BMI of 20, probably not the best patient to start on a high dose of GLP-1, although depending on how this class of drugs evolves in the future, there may be some that have maybe a more deliberate less impact on body weight and appetite and more impact on maybe substance use tendencies or various other things. That's a TBD, but this is not a great source of concern for me at the moment. And none of this obviates the need for people to just train. So even if you are on one of these, you need to be training regardless. That's our strongest recommendation. Yeah, agreed. Yeah, for all the, as you said, hysteria surrounding the potential of excessive muscle loss. Show me the data. Show me the data. And until then, I would not say that confidently or with like a lot of panic surrounding the message, but it's a reasonable hypothesis and we want to be risk averse, but like, where's the data? Yeah. All right, let's wrap this up. Sarcopenia is not a disease of the elderly, but rather it is a process that begins much earlier in life when an individual can build their physiological reserve or fund their physical 401k, if you like, finance analogies. First, we must move away from the focus on muscle mass and especially conflating it with lean body mass in general. The real enemy is dynappinia, the loss of force and power, a large muscle that cannot generate force is a liability, not an asset. Second, regarding diagnosis, if you wait for a DEXA scan or for your doctor to tell you that you're sarcopenic, you're too late. Functional tests like gate speed, sit to stand tests and similar are early warning signs that you or a loved one might have sarcopenia. Third, on reversibility, we cannot regrow dead motor neurons. However, we can still intervene with exercise and make sure the remaining fibers are preserved and functioning well. For the healthy individual, the goal is to fund your physical 401k as much as possible, build strength and proficiency across a wide variety of different exercises, rep range and tasks. Generally speaking, get as fit as possible. Future you will thank you. For the person who has or is at risk of sarcopenia at the time to act is now. Start with relatively low volume training and gradually increase from there, making sure that they're pushing themselves, lifting relatively challenging weights and moving the loads as fast as they can. The risk of under training and under loading a person with sarcopenia far outweighs the relatively small risk of injury in this population. Finally, nutrition. Most individuals would benefit from eating an additional serving of two of high quality protein each day, but this becomes even more important for those with sarcopenia where appetite is relatively low and the likelihood of anabolic resistance is high. Making sure each meal has a good dose of high quality protein is likely to be beneficial. Supplementing with a weight protein that's third party tested can be useful, especially for those who struggle to eat enough. However, eating more protein alone will not significantly improve sarcopenia absent of physical training. Don't wait until you or a loved one is weak. The time to start investing yourself is now. And with that, that is a wrap on the Barbell Medicine Podcast on sarcopenia. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining us and sharing his expertise. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all latest nuance and health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.