 ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE ISRE IS the place to be, the only starting strength gym in Australia. So if you're in the area, you should definitely check these guys out. We're going to do a very special format this week again. So last week I had Tom troll me with a two-minute Tuesday that turned into a two-minute Tuesday with an eight-minute afterparty. We're going to be even a little closer this week. So we're going to have Reese here, who is a starting strength coach. He's going to ask a question. Now, Tom's going to get two minutes. Joe's going to get two minutes. Then I'm going to get two minutes. Reese is going to get no minutes. But it's not because we don't like him. It's just because we want to keep this brief. All right. So without further ado, Reese, what is the question? Okay. Would you or would you not recommend yoga to older clients? Why or why not? Say hi to the internet. Hi, guys. Hi, guys. What's up, Rach? Hi. No, no, no. This is for the twos. No? For the twos. Well, my life is like a series of twos. It's for vlogging. Yeah, so Sydney Harbor. Bow time. Bow time. Bow time. Thank you. I generally would not recommend yoga to older clients because I am not a yoga coach and I am a barbell coach. And in general, I think that range of motion is best acquired through strength training. And there are a number of older people who are not range of motion limited in the same way that they are strength limited. As people age, they become more and more inactive and they experience sarcopenia, which is the loss of muscle tissue. It's the observation that people lose something like, what is it, 10% of their strength of their muscle tissue per decade. That is probably not just a physiological occurrence. It's probably mediated by inactivity. And they would be best aided by actually getting stronger. You will actually get range of motion in things like a squat or a press best by actually getting stronger. And given that many of these people would experience very significant increases in the quality of life, I would worry about strength first. In fact, I think I'm under two minutes, right? Brevity is the soul of which I won't ever to be brief. All right. John? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So would I recommend yoga? Obviously, I'm biased towards strength training. But if range of motion is what we're interested in, if that's what we're talking about, I think that potentially you can achieve better ranges of motion by strength training. Because when a range of motion is limited, if you make the muscles stronger, you can actually obtain a better range of motion because those muscles can pull the bones into the ranges that you want them to go into. But I'm going to play a bit of a contrarian role and present another argument here. If somebody had no access to strength training and yoga was the only thing that they could possibly do, then I might say, you know what? Yoga is going to be better than doing nothing because you will get some adaptations to doing yoga. But if you've got the choice between the two, I think the net gains that you're going to get from strength training are going to outweigh what you get from yoga, especially when you take into consideration the time and effort that you put into each one. Strength training for an older person isn't that hard at the start and you get really amazing results, whereas yoga is kind of hard. And the results are... Yeah. Okay. So two minutes. I think good points of views. I kind of agree with my colleagues. The deal is this. So on a return on investment standpoint from muscle mass, strengthening, range of motion improvement, yoga is not as good as strength training. So first of all, range of motion is specific to what you're doing, right? So if you're trying to train range of motion for the squat, for instance, and you're not doing squatting, you're suboptimally improving your range of motion compared to just squatting more. So things like ROMWOD, respectively, yoga for lifters, or yoga proper, which there are multiple different iterations and subsets, are ultimately suboptimal ways to increase your range of motion for squatting compared to just squatting, which is why we don't recommend it. So in place of squatting, right? If you have unlimited training resources, perhaps yoga improves your social circle, improves your mental status, decreases stress levels, this, that, and the other. So it could be useful from that standpoint. From an actual strength and conditioning standpoint, I think that you'd be better served by strength training rather than doing yoga. That being said, if you have somebody who can't do anything else, I find yoga at the far end of things. I would say that's fine. I would rather you do bodyweight workouts. I'd rather you go to the machines and do a machine-based workout. I'd rather you do calisthenics all before doing yoga. And the thing is, the scalability of yoga is less than barbell training or machine-loaded training and stuff like that. And, you know, there's going to be yogis who are like, no, we can scale anything. But the point is, it's still effective. Not can you do it. Is it still effective, right? It's like the CrossFit workout that involves a PVC pipe. Is it still effective? Even though you can do it, the efficacy, I think, drops to a certain level. So this doesn't mean I don't like yoga. Again, if you have unlimited resources, you've been training a long time, you want to do yoga because it makes your life better, knock yourself out. Let's just not lie to ourselves about the reasons that we're doing it. So start from a strength and conditioning standpoint, meh. From a fat loss standpoint, meh. From a range of motion standpoint, I just think it's a nonspecific way to train. So, hey. What are your thoughts on this? Jesus Christ. Did you do that? All right. You have to sit. I'll put the picture up. I'll put the picture up. Yeah. I will definitely put a high rate. That's. Wow. You know. Well done, Plads. Very good. Very good. Very good. I have nothing for that. All right. Guys, thanks for tuning in to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. If you liked the video, hit like, subscribe, share with your friends, and we'll see you next Tuesday. G'day. All right. We're here on the boat with Sydney Strength Training. We've got Joe Comberton, Reese. These are the only starting strength coaches in Sydney. Where can people find out more about your journey? Sydney Strength Training.com.au. Or at Sydney Strength Training on Grand. Okay. Do you guys have any starting training camps coming up? Or what's going on? Any events? We'll probably have a camp maybe in the 50th year. And maybe do a track 60 day. I think it's very good. Yeah. Yeah. But more importantly, look at this beard. Just look at this man. It's like Adam Levine, but jacked. Hot. Yeah. Hot. Hot. Thank you.