! One thing I'd haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz haz But anyway, so this comes up a lot. The best data we have is from the STOMP trial. Great acronym. The effect of statins on skeletal muscle function and performance. STOMP, we love it. They took 420 healthy statin-naive people and randomized them to get either high-dose atorvastatin, 80 milligrams, versus placebo for six months on a standardized resistance training program. There was no significant difference in the amount of muscular strength they gained. Both groups got stronger or muscle size or exercise capacity between the two groups. CK, creatine kinase, did go up on average about 21 units more in the group that was getting atorvastatin. But honestly, for that dose, that's pretty impressive. I would have expected more, you know, if any finding at all. But yeah, that was pretty reasonable to me. Additional data shows that statins amplify the CK response to exercise potentially even higher. Lovastatin, we talked about, had an average of a 75% increase higher. A CK level at 24 and 48 hours after resistance training compared to placebo. So that could be a signal there if you're starting somebody on that at a high dose. Now, again, I alluded to this, but there's more data on endurance. And this is where things get genuinely interesting to me. We could have had a whole podcast on just like, what the heck is going on with statins and, you know, gaining cardiorespiratory fitness. However, here's my take on it. We have limited evidence that statins, especially at higher doses, may reduce baseline muscle oxidative capacity and potentially blunt or reduce the aerobic fitness gains that people get from training. There's one study from 2013 in particular that showed this, whereas some other studies that tried to replicate that didn't find that. So the data is mixed, does appear to be dose dependent. And again, all from mostly small studies, unfortunately. What we do know from meta-analyses and larger studies is that the combination of statin therapy and exercise produces better survival than either alone. And cardiorespiratory fitness still improves. So it's not like it's blunting it entirely if it has any effect at all. So to me, the clinical takeaway here hasn't changed. You should train, take a medication if it's indicated, and work with your doctor to find the lowest dose that gets you to target here. But it is worth knowing that the interaction exists because it's another reason to optimize dosing rather than just defaulting to the maximum. So the picture that's emerging here is that statins don't meaningfully impair training in the average user, but in the subset of susceptible people, and our patient was clearly in that subset. The combination of drug exposure, genetics, and in this case, training stress crossed a threshold where the damage was real and measurable. Since we're talking about muscles, medications, and metabolic syndrome, three of my favorite M's, there's one more thing to watch in the space, and it is terzepatide. You mentioned this earlier. This is that dual GIP-GLP-1 receptor agonist that most people know as either Manjaro or Zeppan. It's generating some interesting cardiovascular data. So in addition to its metabolic effects, clinical trials have shown that it can lower triglycerides by about 25% to 30% and reduce apolipoprotein B, APOB, which is the protein that rides around on cholesterol particles and builds plaque. APOB reduction is a meaningful signal because it tracks closely with cardiovascular risk. A trial called TPLAQ is currently looking at whether terzepatide directly slows coronary plaque progression and the early results are promising. The 2026 guidelines mention terzepatide and semaglutide in the context of weight management with secondary lipid benefits. So like use it to lose weight or, as you mentioned, reduce this sort of address the root cause of what's going on here. But also you get these lipid benefits on top of that. But they're not yet positioned as a sort of primary lipid-lowering drugs like statins, for example. But for patients who have overlapping metabolic, cardiovascular, and kidney risk, what the guidelines now call CKM syndrome, cardiovascular, kidney, metabolic syndrome, this drug class may eventually become another tool. So Austin, I think I know the answer to this already, but I want you to drive it home. What do you think about combining GLP-1s with statins and lifestyle interventions to optimize someone's health relating to CKM syndrome? I think it is an ultra-potent strategy. And so it is very strongly recommended for, you know, when used appropriately in the right patient. It's honestly a pretty remarkable time to be alive with these conditions. And certainly if you're trying to prevent them, if you're eligible or if you have access to these medicines, the use of terzepatide and certainly, you know, the ones that we're expecting to come down the pipe in the coming year or two that are actually one literally just got approved within the past couple days, the next oral agent. Terrible name, by the way. Yeah, I agree. And then as I mentioned, the use of statins judiciously and dosed properly and when appropriate, or if somebody has access to the more potent therapies like a PCSK9 inhibitor also when appropriate or certainly just when they become more accessible in the future might even augment things further. So I think the incentives are there for these companies to generate effective treatments, right? So cardiovascular disease, leading cause of death in the world, obesity and its downstream complications, super prevalent. They're clearly figuring these pathways out. They are competing with one another to generate ever more potent, more effective, safer, more well-tolerated agents. And that's just, I think, I guess if you want to complain about capitalism, you certainly have a lot of reasons that you could. But this seems to be one of the more favorable results that is emerging from that system of competition. Yeah, I agree. I agree.