 what bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl bl pressure. Got to measure blood pressure. It's got to be within range. And I can't say lower is better because obviously that's not true. Yeah, not entirely true for blood pressure. But I would be very hesitant to be permissive of blood pressure that's elevated above 120 over 80 for most individuals, unless there was a specific reason to kind of permit it to go above that. I'd be pretty aggressive at treating it or managing it, mainly because we think there's like this dose dependent risk, not only how high is it, but for how long is it elevated? So the sooner we can get it under control and the better control that is, the better off the individual. What do you think about that? I think it's a reasonable take when viewed through the lens of this kind of like longevity promotion, because there are certainly, you know, situations I'm thinking about lots of the older folks that I see who are already multimorbid and in the hospital or who are like, you know, on the very later stages of their life for whom this is like not at all a major consideration. And I'm much more permissive and I don't particularly care if their blood pressure is 130 or 140. Sometimes even 150, because it's like, you know, if you're on hospice, then that is not something we, why are we even checking your blood pressure? So that context matters, but through the lens of longevity, if that's the lens we're taking here, then yeah, we know that risk starts to go up as that blood pressure starts to creep up over, I think like 115 over 75 or so. That is not to say that necessarily pharmacologically lowering it back down to that level is always going to lead to benefit, but that is just kind of what we observe in a population wide kind of data set. So if you are one of these kind of like maximizers, then yeah, being stringent lower for longer to that threshold would be wiser. Yeah. So that's our first of the borrow medicine vital five. Second thing we're talking about here is apolipoprotein B or APOB. I could have just put standard lipid panel and we say non HDL component, but you know, look, if I get to make the list, yeah, sure. I'm going to do a better job. So apolipoprotein B mainly because this represents your atherogenic load. As far as a single test goes, you can do that. And similar to blood pressures, another dose dependent relationship between this risk factor and cardiovascular disease, the higher it is and the longer it is elevated for, we think that incurs more risk. Now this is a probability based thing. We think that if we lower it, generally speaking, lower is better unless you've developed a medical condition that lowers it for you. In which case that is more problematic, but generally speaking, lower is better. And, um, this would be another part of the barbell medicine vital five. What do you think about that? Also fair. And similarly, uh, the, the context of lowering matters and how aggressive you choose to be, um, is a very individual decision in terms of maximizing lifestyle stuff versus the use of single agent pharmacology, multiple agent pharmacology, and should also be couched in the context of your overall risk. You could have also made an argument, of course, as many people may to include a lipoprotein little a here. I'm also in agreement with you of not including it here. If we're just being limited to five for several reasons, the APOB particle burden in our bloodstream drastically out numbers, the number of lipoprotein little a particles that we have, the numbers are just so much higher of APOB. And that is currently the focus of therapy. As we mentioned, I think on a recent podcast, we actually don't even have the randomized trials yet on a, on lipoprotein little a lowering therapies. And so that remains an unproven thing. Once that is proven one way or the other, then we'll have more to say on that topic. But I agree with excluding that for now. All right. So we've got blood pressure, got APO lipoprotein B for first two. They're not in any particular order, but number three is VO2 max. I think, look, if you're going to go through the trouble of getting things measured and you want sort of actionable insights on what's next, I think having a VO2 max is a reasonable test to be done. Now, whether you do it in a lab, you know, hooked up to a metabolic cart, or you just do a one and a half mile run or the 12 minute Cooper test or whatever, all of those things would be fine to get you in the right ballpark to see, Hey, do I have an average VO2 max? Is it below average or is it nearing elite? And we would try to push people who are able to, to get closer to elite, because we think there are continued benefits above just doing the exercise, just meeting the guidelines, going beyond that and making sure that you're achieving the actual elite level fitness relative to health. Um, as far as that's possible for a person, what do you, what do you think about that? Yeah. Uh, I would just pick a performance test if it were me, but I'm more of a pragmatist in this than somebody who wants, uh, very specific data points like a proper VO2 max measurement. And so, um, I would say if you want to pick your performance test of choice among those you listed and try to PR that, then go for it. Sounds great. Yeah. And moves us onto our fourth, uh, a factor here on the, uh, barbell medicine vital five relative strength. If we've hemmed and hawed about absolute strength levels, like do we care about your absolute grip strength? Maybe it's relative grip strength. Do we care about your absolute leg press one rep max, or should it be relative like a body weight multiplier? And I think we just need a good sort of test for your musculoskeletal and neuromuscular systems being integrated together in a functional way, some sort of functional test. I don't think a sit to stand test is going to be useful enough for a young, healthy, you know, otherwise healthy population who's interested in longevity. Right. And I further, I think that test generally speaking is not as predictive as we'd want it to be as far with like a, for an intervention point. It's not a great screening tool. It's like you can identify folks who already have sarcopenia, for example, or poor function, but it's like the, the change in, in very, maybe small changes over time, less noticeable until it becomes, you know, frank and overt. And at that point you might not have even needed the test. So what do you think? I think, yeah, I think it's a late indicator. I mean, there are other examples of this in medicine, like a hemoglobin A1c, for example, is a late indicator of insulin resistance. By the time that that gets up over the threshold to diagnose diabetes, the insulin resistance has been present for over a decade in most people. And there are other potentially more sensitive metrics to catch this earlier on, um, that, uh, you know, we'll, we'll probably discuss at another time, but, um, that this would be an example of that by the time the sit to stand is abnormal. Yeah. That's a, that's a late stage, uh, indicator compared with, um, other potential, uh, tools. Yep. All right. So that's the first four of the Barbell Medicine Vital 5. And the last one, this may be surprising to you, but I needed something for body composition. Um, I didn't feel like BMI fit the bill. I didn't think that waist circumference fit the bill. And it's like, can we just put these things together and have like a joint metric? Oh, that does exist. And we call it a body roundness index. Now look, the, the name needs work to be clear. It needs to be workshopped. Change it. Right. And I don't think anybody wants to have their body roundness index assessed, um, might be more inflammatory than just than, than BMI generally speaking, but like some decent data available on this so far, not as much as I'd want, but I think reasonably it tells people, are you at risk, uh, based on your, not only the amount of body fat that you're carrying, but where it's located. And that's really, really what I want here. Um, does that strike you as totally like, look, you should have picked something else. This is stupid or what do you think? I think it's a reasonable argument. And you also preempted somebody who might have said, well, why don't I just go get my body fat percent tested? Because the distribution is something that you actually care about and want to have captured in your metric. So I think that's a reasonable choice. If you can get an MRI or a CT that can otherwise tell you how much visceral adipose tissue you have, and you are okay in the case of a CT with billing, being exposed to those little sievers of radiation, more power to you. But I'm like, we could just do this based on measurements and get close enough. Yeah, no, I think that that's fair. The only thing that I see, you know, that, um, uh, you, you might want to think about some sort of assessment for, which I'm not the expert to provide that would be some metric of like psychosocial health and functioning. Totally. How many friends do you have? Exactly. When was the last time you went outside? Yeah, look, we're starting the clock, 60 seconds, name as many friends you could call right now. They pick up their phone. Yeah. There's some sort of mark. Yeah. And interestingly, this is probably bad for business, but like the total cost on these tests on April lipoprotein B is what? Like, you know, maybe 75 bucks, 50 bucks. Not even. Yeah. So yeah, we're going to be selling our Barbell Medicine Vital 5 screening test. It's 50 bucks. Yeah. Right. Get a blood pressure check, get the, get the lipid check, do a performance test for strength and conditioning and then body fat assessment. Pretty straightforward. That'll take you quite far in this game and then have some friends. That's the hard part for some. Wow. Nailed it. Nailed it. Love that. what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what