! Yeah, I bet it's a large number of people who saw whatever this is about to be. So here's the first line from this newsletter that is also published on their website. And I quote, as I write this, I'm wearing a large heating pad on my back like a cape. Why? Because when I parked my car at the grocery store, I made the mistake of twisting around to grab shopping bags from the back seat. It goes on about how she has this author's had low back pain. And then she says, so I thought it might be helpful to focus on how to prevent back pain in the first place. And I've asked orthopedic doctors for their best tips. Now, Dr. Baraki, you are very, very familiar with the literature on low back pain. You have treated a lot of individuals with low back pain. You have worked through low back pain on your own. I would go so far as to call you a subject matter expert on low back pain. Now, if you had a question about low back pain, orthopedic doctor is your first pick? Generally not. You know, this is not intended to throw shade at orthopedists out there, like by and large. No, no hate comms. Yeah. Right. They're generally quite good at what they do, meaning the skill set that they are trained for, which involves slicing and dicing to improve, you know, pathologies of various, you know, orthopedic structures and joints. Joint replacements, for example. I would 100% entrust their well-trained orthopedist, you know, there are also even further subspecialties out of orthopedics who I would trust with their, you know, realms of expertise, be it ortho-oncology or hand surgeons or various other niches. But back pain, by and large, is a non-surgical problem. And so going straight to a surgeon for, you know, opinions on this, it's not to say that they're unreliable for this, but just that there's going to be a little bit more variation in the quality of advice that you're going to get from someone who might, you know, spend most of their day operating on patients for a problem that, by and large, does not require surgery. There are certainly situations with respect to back pain that do require surgical intervention, sometimes purely, you know, orthopedic-related issues, be it spinal fractures, certain disc herniated, herniation-type situations that do benefit from surgery, definitely like, you know, other forms of cancers and other infections and things like that that can get into the spine. But common low back pain, which is what this article author is speaking on, is not something that really needs an orthopedic surgeon to be involved at all in their evaluation or management. And so, you know, you run the risk of something that is very commonly seen when going to specialists in a given area is you end up getting commentary, ideas, advice that are subject to their own selection bias. And so this is, for example, where, you know, in recent years, as pickleball has gotten much more popular, you started to see all these articles about how injurious pickleball is. And it's like, you know, they're interviewing people who see people with injuries, not all the people who are out there doing great and improving their health and function and feeling well and, you know, various things like that, right? If you go to an ER doctor and you're like, can you tell me your opinion on fireworks? And it's like, they are people who only see the really bad stuff that happens when things go wrong with fireworks, right? So there are certainly many of them who have that insight into what is the selection of my population and try to, like, consciously counter that bias with, like, bigger data sets than just their own experience. But I think that's hard to do for a lot of clinicians and is not the default setting. A lot of times when you go to clinicians, they're going to tell you what they know based on – especially the further out they get from formal training. You're going to get less and less evidence-based and more and more experience-based, which is just unfortunately the way it is unless they go out of their way to stay up to date on evidence and things like that. Yeah, yeah. I mean I don't think that this particular author is like an investigative journalist, although I would – I would want that. And then I would want them to think about this, say, okay, look, if I'm trying to write this thing about low back pain, who would I ask? And you could say, well, maybe asking a surgeon. Sure. You know, an orthopedic surgeon, neurosurgeon, something like that. Maybe I should ask a physical therapist. Sure. And maybe I should ask maybe like a clinician researcher, like hybrid that is actively involved in low back pain research. Like to me, that would be like the three horsemen. Like great. Sure. Yeah. You know? But it's kind of like Fox News the other day asked like Texas mom about high fructose corn syrup and cane sugar. It's like, wait, how did you arrive? Like these are the experts? Anyway. Yeah. So that's my first gripe. But like, okay, let's suspend disbelief. Maybe this is a great thing. We're just, this is actually a positive quack watch. Sure. Dr. Arthur L. Jenkins, the third great name, by the way. Yeah. The neurosurgeon in New York City who specializes in spinal surgery, to your point. He says to avoid bending, lifting, and twisting. The BLT, as he calls it. This maximizes the stress on the disc, making it more likely to rupture. As a spine surgeon, I would never do it. And you know that a phrase, look, the guy came up with BLT. Pretty catchy. Right? Pretty quippy. That's been said a lot to patients. Hey, don't, BLT, you got to avoid it. I, as a neurosurgeon, would never do it. Completely ignoring the fact that as you interact with the environment around you, you most certainly will have to bend, lift, and twist. Not only separately, but also at the same time. Can you imagine trying to go about your daily life without ever bending, lifting, and twisting at the same time? Yeah. I mean, I imagine this neurosurgeon just goes about his day like living in a very tight corset that allows him to do none of those things with his thorax. And he just remains rigidly upright and doesn't move. He actually has a series of assistants who carries him around. So it's just like from room to room and like, hey, do this thing. Yes. When lifting an object, make sure both feet are planted and your weight is evenly distributed. Then lift from your legs instead of your arms and back, said spine surgeon at the hospital for special surgery in Manhattan. So there's a second surgeon. I suppose that's not terrible advice. Like you, I guess, in order to produce force against the ground, your feet would have to be on the ground. So that is a physics lesson that we all needed in this newsletter. I don't know about your weight being evenly distributed because like what if picking up something or interacting with the environment forces you into a posture that your weight isn't 100% balanced over your midfoot? Yeah, I mean, I think if we wanted to be maximally charitable to this guy, that if he is advising against, you know, high effort lifting in very awkward positions to which you are unaccustomed. Yeah, there may be some risk of some discomfort associated with that because you are unaccustomed to that sort of thing. But if you went in the other direction and you said that anytime somebody does follow that advice, right, that they are not going to experience back pain, well, that our rehab team would argue otherwise. Because we have lots of folks who, you know, have gone about their lifting careers following what would be considered kind of best advice for like deadlift training. For example, their feet are planted on the ground. They have the symmetric setup. The bar, the load is as close to their, you know, shins as you can get it, trying to maintain your center of mass and everything all aligned and following that. And sometimes people still develop back discomfort. And so I think that there are variables that can be manipulated to, you know, that may contribute to an increased risk of back discomfort or that may lower that risk. I think that our advice historically has typically been in the realm of prepare for the thing you're trying to do and try to be prepared for those kind of things, whether in the gym or in day-to-day life. Like exposure is worthwhile and don't try to bite off more than you can chew in a lot of these situations. And beyond that, if you're still well-prepared for something and you still develop some backache, sometimes things just happen. And these things are not always 100% within our control. And sometimes even people who never do any of these things, be it bending or lifting or twisting, or don't at least recall an incident with one of those activities, they still develop potentially very debilitating back pain. And so, you know, I think that there is like a charitable way to interpret this, but at the same time, it's not the way that we typically try to communicate around these topics to patients because it tends to generate relatively deeply seated kind of hypervigilance around movement. And we're trying not to, you know, ideally you go about your life not really having to think about every, you know, postural detail or something like that, right? Constantly 24-7, that's not realistic in the same way that you should ideally not have to think about, you know, every calorie that is either entering your mouth or being expended by your body. Like ideally we can set up your daily habits, your dietary pattern, your food environment, so that you don't need that constant hypervigilance to everything. Kind of a similar concept when it applies to movement. And so these types of pieces of advice I think are not as helpful as I think that this physician suspected it would be when he provided the quote. Yeah. The third surgeon is Dr. Patel. He's a spine surgeon at Northwestern Medicine. He often sees patients, quote, running into trouble with activities such as pickleball, paddle tennis, and golf. There it is. He says flexibility is key. So build in a warm-up and stretching routine. For example, with golf, add a low back and chest stretch every three holes. As an avid golfer, no. That's the dumbest thing I've heard. Like one, this presupposes that doing regular, we'll call it flexibility exercise, just, you know, some sort of guided, you know, flexibility training reduces the incidence of low back pain, which is not the case. And, in fact, when people get a little overzealous with stretching, it may actually cause more symptomology. But on the course, if I was playing with a person and every three holes they went through this whole routine, I'd be like, dude, what are you doing? Yeah. Like this is ridiculous. They further say don't overload your carry-on bag. That's not a motion that most people do every day. So be mindful not to overload your luggage. I personally never take a carry-on bag on planes anymore. Wow. That's remarkable. Instead of, like, maybe get strong enough to where handling a carry-on is a trivially easy task for you, just never move anything overhead. This is like the doctor advice, like, hey, if that hurts, never do it. Ever. Ever. Yeah. Whereas we come back from a different perspective. It's like, look, I want you to have, to the extent it's possible, unrestricted movement. You can do whatever you want. Unfettered access to the entire cornucopia of the movement library that so far exists in human history. I want you to be ready and be able to do all of that. Fit for duty. Yeah. I want you to be 70, 80-plus years old and still able to lift your carry-on into the overhead bin with no issues and no assistance from anyone else. Have a carry-on. Be able to travel. Yes. And then, two, be able to lift in the overhead luggage. Yeah. And then, finally, and you knew this was coming, steer-clear sit-ups. They may put a lot of stress on the discs of your spine. Core-strengthening exercises, such as planks, Pilates, swimming, and yoga, and also the elliptical machine, are a lot healthier for your back in general. We're personifying the back. And back health, spine health. I mean, this is like a low back pain nocebo bingo card. You got like reductionism to just a disc injury despite most of the low back pain not being related to a disc. You've got this biomedical model where, oh, there has to be an injury to the disc, the ligament, something. And that's what caused the pain, which, again, most low back pain is specifically not. Nothing about doing more movements to like prepare yourself for things that you might face. But instead, just avoid more things. And then disc, disc, disc, disc, disc. And it's like people already, even if they're not in the fitness space and even if – or even if they've been exposed to some of our material or material like ours, you hear disc, disc injury, disc rupture. It still kind of triggers this like – Totally. It's scary. Don't want that. Yeah. And you got all of them here. Yeah. I mean, this is – you could mad lib this as Dr. Miles likes to do and fit in running and your knees. It could be tennis and your elbows or your shoulder. And it's like, yep, all of those sports that deliver a particular stress, a little bit more biased towards a particular body area, people may be more susceptible to discomfort or overuse syndromes in that area. But the solution is not to just withdraw from that activity forever because it has the potential to contribute to some pain experience, but rather it's like be mindful of the dosage, be mindful of your tolerance, your capacity. And if something crops up, here are the tools that you can use to self-manage and get better through that, which is what we aim to – the messaging that we aim to put out there instead of just never do this thing because the solution there is just withdraw from all activity because all activity delivers some sort of physiologic mechanical stress to the body somewhere. And it's like, well, if that dose is off, you might get some pain. And that's certainly a good way to avoid maybe the spine surgeon's operating table for a discectomy, but it's also a great way to end up in the primary care office or the ER with a complication of cardiovascular disease because you develop metabolic syndrome from not moving for a large portion of your life out of fear. Yeah. I guess my question to you is now this is – it is theoretically answerable if the data set existed, but I've been actively looking for something like this, and there's just not a lot of data on this. But my speculation here is that if you took two groups of just twins, identical twins, and you split them right down the middle, one group of twins on one side, one group of identical twins on the other side, the one group of identical twins, they do not exercise. They don't lift weights or whatever, any of that. And the other group, well, they are resistance training. They're exercising, whatever. And you compared low back pain incidents in both groups. Yeah. I actually think they'd be pretty similar. The only study that exists like this is mostly on with cardio only where the one cardio group was doing like six hours a week of conditioning. The other group remained insufficiently active, and the number of injuries, including low back pain, was the same between both groups. And so it's like I don't know actually that avoiding these things reduces your risk of low back pain. And I think, in fact, if you're avoiding all of these things, to include exercise that would directly stress your low back in any sort of way, it actually just leaves you undertrained and maybe more vulnerable. Not to say that you need to be like have the super robust sort of strength and muscle mass or whatever in order to prevent low back pain. But at least it prepares you for the movement more than sitting on the couch. Yeah. It may just be tradeoffs and shifting risks around. Instead of developing an overuse syndrome from maybe lifting a little bit more than you're ready for too much too soon, it leaves you undertrained and underdeveloped so that turning around to grab something out of the backseat of your car is too much too soon. And so you end up ultimately in a similar place. Yeah. If New York Times contacted me and they say, hey, you want to review this just for like accuracy or whatever, I'd be like, yeah, so I think this is mostly harmful, net negative. It does not provide a lot of actionable advice for folks that would actually make them healthier. Instead, maybe we should do some stuff on pain education, like what it actually means to have low back pain. What it doesn't mean is probably not a disc injury most of the time unless you have these certain signs. And then in which case, yeah, it's okay to be concerned and be evaluated. Let's introduce maybe the biopsychosocial model. Let's talk about exercise, like what you can do, find an entry point, all sorts of stuff. But yeah, no, none of that. Let's just – you know what? Let's just talk about not lifting – not having luggage. Never BLT. Great sandwich, by the way. And yeah, if you're going to blast this out to like a million subscribers, I think you have the responsibility to do a good job. Yeah, here's an interesting kind of corollary to this. If we were to translate this into a different clinical setting. Instead of talking to a spine surgeon about back pain, for example, let's say you went to an obesity medicine physician about their best tips to manage or avoid developing obesity. The analog of I just don't carry a carry-on is, yeah, so I just don't eat. I just don't eat. Yeah. That's the analog of this advice. The way that I avoid gaining weight is I actually don't take in any energy, and it's pretty foolproof. There you go. Yeah, just don't eat. Eat less, move more. Thanks, New York Times. You bet. Yeah. All right. We'll be right back.