 cschoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppoop dragging on the floor. He waits. He hopes it will resolve. But a year later, the paralysis is still there. And today, we're breaking down the medical mystery case of the paralyzed personal trainer. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast, where we bring modern medicine to strength and conditioning. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum, and I'm joined by the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, dude? Hey, I'm doing okay. Excited to be here. Feeling well. How are you? I'm all right. I got another mystery case for you involving a frequent guest of our podcast, the personal trainer. My prediction is that you're not going to get it. 50-50 shot. It's a supplement problem. Could be. Could be. Are you ready? I think so. I think so. Can I have one little preamble first? Sure. So just an interesting kind of anecdote is that we heard from a podcast listener recently who, after listening to one of our other recent mystery case episodes that ended up being a case of vitamin D toxicity, ended up actually recognizing symptoms in himself that were potentially related, got his lab tests checked. And sure enough, he had also vitamin D toxicity. And then this is another case that I saw recently in my telemedicine patient population, a woman whose vitamin D level was just reported as greater than 150, essentially off the charts, off the high end of the chart. And that was many months ago. And I asked, what were you told to do after that lab result? And she told me that she was told to reduce her high dose vitamin D supplementation from taking it twice weekly down to taking it once weekly. I said, that is also unwise and we should probably stop it altogether because this is going to last a long time before it gets better. And so we've caught multiple cases of vitamin D toxicity now in people who are kind of supplementing, not truly like mega dosing, just taking more than they need in inappropriate contexts. So, you know, buyer beware out there. Is this vitamin D maxing? Is that what this is called? An inadvisable strategy. We're currently in fiber maxing mode. So advise that over vitamin D maxing. Agreed. All right. Well, Austin, I have a consult for you. Okay, let's do it. The patient is a 24 year old male. He's in the emergency room right now. He came in because his new girlfriend finally convinced him to get his foot looked at. For the last year, he says that his right foot has been dragging whenever he walks. Prior to that, he says he's never had any issues with his feet or his ankles, but that he probably should have gotten it looked at sooner. He says that a year ago, he went off the rails on his diet for about two days. And afterwards, he started a rapid weight loss plan where he reportedly lost 22 pounds in two weeks. He was also exercising during this time, which involved a lot of high intensity sprints, squats, and aggressive stretching. Since then, he's had this foot issue every time he walks or tries to run. He reports tripping frequently if he tries to move too quickly and that he's had to go a little lighter on legs, but otherwise he's able to work out normally. He denies any back pain, any numbness in the groin, any bowel or bladder changes, or any trauma to the area. So Austin, we've got this 24 year old with a one year history of foot drop that appeared out of the blue. The initial story involves high intensity sprints, deep squats, and aggressive stretching. But it happened right as he lost about 13% of his body mass in about two weeks. So when you see a young active guy whose foot isn't working, yet he doesn't have any back pain or trauma, how do you go about building your differential? Is he getting imaging immediately or are you headed to the lab? Cool case. Okay. So I'm going to actually rewind a little bit from some of the kind of specificity that you layered into the case. So oftentimes when we start these things, we have a lot of clinical information, context, who the patient is, their past medical history, their details. And that kind of already gets you going in terms of narrowing things. But I like to start as broad as possible. And so I'm going to like, you know, back up from the fact that he's young, that he's previously healthy, that he had that backstory and just say, I have a patient who is experiencing what you're telling me, labeling as foot drop. Or we could just, we could say there's some kind of like weakness going on in the foot subjective until we prove it objectively on our, on our testing. And this is a relatively common problem. Just when somebody has the concern of weakness is really what I'm going to start with as broad and general as that is. The question when we start out with that is, is it just this kind of like generalized weakness? The person is feeling weak all over. What is, what does that really mean? How are they describing it? How are they experiencing it? Is it more fatigue? Is it weakness in terms of shortness of breath? Sometimes people feel dizzy and they say that they feel weak or is it what we'll call more focal? Is it in a specific area of the body? Are they unable to lift a particular limb or multiple limbs? Are they unable to lift both of their arms? Are they having trouble standing up out of a chair? These are all different things that can help us try to narrow down on where could this problem like live in, in the patient's body with weakness. That is kind of true weakness that there's an area of the body that is not able to be moved quite normally. The way we think about it is kind of, what is the normal physiological pathway to be able to exert force? And so that all starts up in the brain. You start in the brain with kind of your, your pre-motor cortex. And I'm not going to go through all the details of that, but the conscious centers that initiate volitional movement, those, you know, send their signals down the neurological axis from the brain down to the spinal cord, to the nerve roots. Those come out in the spinal nerves that come out from there. Those end in neuromuscular junctions that then meet up with the muscle. And then that muscle is signaled by way of depolarization, some ion shifts, things like that to contract that muscle contraction, pulls on a tendon across a joint and then moves the body part. And so we think from start to finish along that entire pathway to try to identify where could this problem be that would best explain the pattern of weakness that the patient has. So if it's in one very particular area of the body, that does tend to narrow down the places that we look. It tends to be more, is there a problem in the brain in a very particular spot? For example, people might be familiar with, oh, this patient had a stroke and now they're not able to lift their arm afterwards. Obviously that tends to manifest much more abruptly unless the patient has it. And then for whatever reason, doesn't notice it or doesn't think much of it and comes in a year later, um, that, you know, strokes tend to be more sudden abrupt onset type phenomena. The other end of that kind of axis, the nerve axis as we'll call it, tends to be things at the level of the joint, the tendon, the muscle, and the nerve ending that supplies that, um, uh, that muscle or the nerve that supplies that muscle. Those are all other areas that can have problems leading to weakness in a particular area. So if somebody has a joint problem, if they have a ruptured tendon, um, if they, if there's a muscle that for whatever reason is torn or is not working for some reason, and then if there are problems like a neuropathy, um, or a nerve problem that makes it unable to kind of stimulate and trigger that muscle to fire problems that arise in the spinal cord. And those are less likely in this situation because they tend, they're going to be less likely to be so localized to just the foot. We're going to expect to find more often other problems, like some of the things you mentioned, whether the patient might have some back pain or some urinary problems, or they would be more, maybe a little bit more likely to have symmetric problems on two sides of the body instead of just one foot, for example. And then thinking about the timeline of how long this has lasted. Again, I mentioned that strokes, for example, or other kind of like vascular problems tend to be sudden or abrupt, whereas the things that tend to last or develop over longer periods of time or last longer, they might be, for example, an infectious cause or an inflammatory cause that can impact the nerves. There are autoimmune diseases that can lead to nerve problems that can lead to foot drop, for example. There can be toxic, metabolic deficiency type issues that can lead to nerve problems. So people with, you know, heavy alcohol use, I've actually seen this exact thing happen in people who drink far too much on an alcohol related binge and have other sorts of, you know, concomitant problems, deficiencies, things like that. And then lastly, the other aspect of instead of kind of these more generalized problems that can affect the health and function of nerves would be, is there something mechanical or structural going on that is affecting the nerve? And so with foot drop in particular, that is one where there is a particular nerve that tends to be affected and that nerve splays around the area of the knee. You can speak more to this with your background masters in anatomy. I'm more the physiology guy here. But that nerve wraps around the head of the fibula and that then goes down and serves to fire the muscles that would help you actually lift your foot. So if there's something structural mechanical going on in that region, for example, when people have a fibular fracture, I believe is an example of something where that kind of trauma to that area can impact the bone and lead to a foot drop. So to summarize all of that, there's a big differential diagnosis for weakness in general. It narrows a little bit when you have weakness in a particular area. And then I'm trying to differentiate in this case, is it something going on in the brain? A bit less likely, but not impossible versus something more local, meaning at the level of the nerve, the muscle, the junction, things like that down in that area. And so that's kind of what I'm going to be interrogating a little bit more for this patient. Yeah, I really like that sort of concept map that you just laid out as far as how to go from, all right, here is this problem, in this case weakness, and how would you work through this just in a general sense? I really like that for learning or even just thinking about how stuff that happens with humans anyway, you could do it for almost any either behavior or any sort of action or any sort of disease. So anything from eating all the way to like diabetes, like what do you know, what needs to be involved for this thing to happen? Maybe unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on your perspective, you may highlight a lot of gaps in knowledge. And that happens to me quite frequently. When I started thinking through an issue, I'm like, I don't really know much about that particular area. You end up down a rabbit hole and you realize you don't know even more, in which case you call an expert. Yeah, I do this a lot when I'm teaching and I have learners, resident students with me, and they're trying to, you know, I'm watching them try to, you know, come up with their differential diagnosis or their plan. And I just have them like pause and rewind, just like walk me through your thought process. And that simple question often gets just like wide eyes. And despite a valiant attempt, it is very quickly apparent to me how much of a grasp the person has on this topic or whether they have one of those sort of what we call well-designed kind of frameworks or schema for this problem. So what I laid out is every time I see a patient with weakness somewhere, I'm doing that exact exercise, thinking through top to bottom, where could this problem be? What could explain this? And then layering that on top of the timeline, how quickly did it develop or how long has it been going on to narrow it further? Yeah, I remember on an anatomy test, we had this. So when I was in my master's program, it's different than med school, which mostly had multiple choice type answers. That's just to standardize everything. But for the master's program, they were like, now we'll read your stuff. So just write this, write this answer. And it was like, imagine a patient gets shot, you know, in the, you know, from the front of his chest, take me through all of the anatomical structures that this bullet would pass through. Yep, exactly. Immediately apparent. Do you know your stuff or do you not? All right, let's dive back into this. Like it's who wants to be a millionaire. You know, the music comes in and the lights go down low. All right, Regis. Back to our patient. Let's dive into some of this objective data to see if we can get you closer to a diagnosis. So his vital signs are normal and he appears to be a healthy young man in no apparent distress, sitting upright in bed. He's already had an extensive lab workup in the emergency room. So his metabolic panel and his chemistry labs are normal, suggesting that, for example, he doesn't have anemia and his kidneys and liver appear to be functioning relatively normally. Also had a TSH, his thyroid stimulated hormone, a hemoglobin A1c to look at his fasting blood sugar, blood sugar control over the past few months, and his vitamin B12 are all stone cold normal as well. They also ran some inflammatory markers, his ESR, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and a CRP, C-reactive protein. Those were both normal. And of course, your favorite, he had an ANA run to look for maybe some sort of autoimmune contribution that was negative. Now on the physical exam, the motor deficit shows significant abnormalities. He's got zero out of five strength in right ankle dorsiflexion, trying to pull his toes up towards his shin, and zero out of five strength in foot eversion, trying to rotate his heel outwardly. The anterior and lateral compartments of the lower limb, so the front and the side, are completely silent. However, his foot inversion, trying to rotate his heel inwardly, is rock solid. Five out of five strength there. His plantar flexion, trying to push down against the ground at the level of the ankle, is also five out of five. We also checked his hip abduction and extension. Both were symmetric and five out of five in strength. Visually, he has significant atrophy over the tibialis anterior, that's the muscle on the front of the leg, and his peroneal muscles, given that lower leg kind of a hollowed out appearance next to the shin. But the calf remains well-developed and muscular. For reflexes, his patellar and Achilles reflexes are plus two and symmetric. Sensation-wise, he's mostly intact, but he does describe a sort of dead feeling or numbness on the top of his foot, specifically in the triangular patch of skin between his big toe and his second toe, that web space. A sensory exam over the lateral calf is preserved. He also had him walk the hall, and when he did, he had to lift his right leg up really high for each step, and then his foot sort of slapped down on the ground each time. And in the ED, they said, well, look, foot drop equals bad back, so they actually sent him for some imaging. So he had plain x-rays or radiographs of the lumbar spine, the pelvis, and his right lower limb. Those were all unremarkable. He then had a MRI of his lumbar spine to look for disc herniation or signs of nerve damage, and the report just came back. The back is pristine. No disc herniations, no foraminal stenosis, and the lumbosacral plexus looked entirely normal. So, Austin, we've got this year-long weakness with an apparently clean spine and a patient who just spent two weeks preceding this on a crash diet. If the MRI says the source isn't the back and the history says that it started exactly when the weight vanished, how are you changing your differential, if anything? Yeah, I realized that in my prior discussion, I kept it general the whole time and never focused in on the specific context, which I'll do now, because I do have a suspicion of what could be going on here. I think the most remarkable thing about all this, honestly, is I want to know what ER has the interest, the willingness, and the capacity to do that amount of workup on a guy who came in after a year of this symptom and sent him for an MRI in the ER. That should not have happened. End of the month, clodas, cloday. This is not an emergency department problem. But yeah, some of those labs, a little bit helpful. Most of them, I was not really expecting much to be abnormal about them. Again, I think that my suspicion of something going on in this patient's brain, which, you know, interestingly was not addressed at all here, is very, very, very low. The idea of something going on in his back, also quite low based on the history. The exam that you're describing is just a total classic foot drop exam, what you describe as what's called a high stepping gate. And then the specific pattern of dorsiflexion and eversion being, you know, gone while maintaining the functions of the other muscles in the lower leg that are not served by that nerve. So this is a very, very focal process. There still can be generalized systemic diseases that manifest with a single nerve being down. However, not for a year. So for example, I mentioned some of those like autoimmune conditions, there are certain kinds of vasculitis, for example, that can cause neuropathies developing all over the body. We call that something called mononeuritis multiplex that can happen. But again, he's had one nerve that has been down for a year and no other issues that have developed. So already that takes many of those kinds of like small vessel vasculitis like off the table. This is much more likely now to be a local, much more likely to be a structural mechanical type problem in that area than it is something more generalized systemic, like an autoimmune disease or a deficiency like thymine, you know, related issues or that they measured B12. You know, that wouldn't manifest this way either. So things like that. So now I'm much more honed in on like something is probably going on in that particular area. And I would want to take a closer look at the level of the knee and the lower leg and the foot, which we did a pretty good neuro exam from what was described here. There has not been apparent trauma that happened in the area. The context of rapid weight loss. So let's talk through like what can happen in that situation. There can be metabolic changes that can happen with rapid weight loss in terms of say fluctuations in glycemic issues, you know, lipid changes that happen in the blood. We've talked before that, for example, when people undergo rapid weight loss, how that can increase the risk of like gallstone formation and other sorts of things like that. Not at all relevant to this case, but just examples of there are certain physiologic changes that we expect to find when people undergo rapid weight loss in various ways. If the patient is on certain medicines and they lose a whole bunch of weight, maybe the medicine that they're taking suddenly is like way more than they need and that can end up leading to downstream problems. But there are also some interesting kind of structural and mechanical type changes that can happen. And so some of the medical students in the audience might recognize or they might have heard, for example, in the abdomen, there are certain mechanical and structural changes that can happen when people undergo rapid weight loss. So there are like some normal amount of like health, I don't know about calling it healthy necessarily, but ever present body fat in our abdominal compartment, for example, that sits under some of our celiac and mesenteric vessels. And so one issue that can arise when people undergo rapid weight loss is the loss of that body fat that can lead to a change in some of the configuration of those vessels, particularly as they relate to the gut. And so things like the relationship between the, I forget if it's the celiac artery or the superior mesenteric artery and the small bowel, and then that can lead to some like functional obstruction essentially, because you don't have that added padding around it. So that's one like well-described phenomenon of what happens when there is like a rapid loss of this fat depot in that area. And so, you know, in this context, the thing that I, the things that I'd be thinking about somebody with rapid, you know, significant weight losses, a much less likely is there, was there some kind of deficiency that developed? No, that doesn't fit this story, this patient, that timeline. Like if you underwent two days of binge eating, he probably topped himself off on nutrients for a long period of time and vitamins and all those kinds of things that can lead to this. And so losing a bunch of weight in the aftermath, you would still not become abruptly deficient, nor would you stay deficient enough to lead to this presentation for a year afterwards. So that doesn't fit at all the timing and the context here. So I'm much more concerned about a mechanical, like a local structural type phenomenon. I'd be curious about what has his weight trajectory been ever since that initial weight loss? Like did he lose that 22 pounds and then he either maintained it or he continued to lose weight? Because if he had, then that could actually fit where there is some normal, you know, body fat in all of these little areas. And when you lose it, there can become structural and mechanical changes. And there is this phenomenon known as slimmers paralysis, where patients who lose a bunch of weight abruptly, they can end up with issues in the legs, including things like foot drop as a result of just like in that abdominal compartment, losing body fat, changing the orientation of the nerves and the muscles relative to the bones, and they can become compressed. And a compressed nerve, a chronically compressed nerve is an unhappy nerve that doesn't really work as well to fire the muscles. And that can lead to the downstream dysfunction and atrophy and things like that. So that's kind of what I'm worried about. What I would do next, of course, is, yeah, look back at his weight trajectory to see like what exactly has happened there. And then I might, you know, engage because I don't personally, you know, perform things like, you know, nerve conduction studies or something like that. And if that is, I don't even think it's really necessary to make the diagnosis here. But if you wanted to, for academic purposes, to really like localize the lesion to that focal site, that would be a way to do that. Well, fortunately, or unfortunately, again, depending on your perspective, you're going to have to do some interpretation of some nerve conduction studies. Don't worry, I've tried to make this as accessible as possible, not only for you, but also for our audience and for me, certainly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This is this is stuff that's typically in like the territory of neurologists and PM&R or physiatry doctors, not internists. But I actually I turfed this to my neurology friend to get some feedback on this to make sure we're accurate. So yeah, since the spine was clean on the MRI, we do have to start looking elsewhere, like the muscles and nerves themselves. You walked us through that process quite nicely. So electrodiagnostic studies were ordered, which are divided into two parts here, one nerve conduction study, and then electromyography, which you might know better as EMG. Now for the listeners at home, you can think of the nerve conduction studies as a technician testing a fiber optic cable. They tap into one end of the nerve, they send a pulse down it, and they measure three specific things. First, they measure latency. This is the time it takes for the signal to start, essentially the reaction time of the nerve. Second, they measure amplitude. This is the strength or the volume of the signal, which tells us how many individual nerve fibers or axons are actually alive and functioning. And third, they test velocity, the speed at which the signal travels down the wire, which tells us if the insulation or myelin sheath is still intact. Now in this patient, when they tested the motor division of the common peroneal nerve, the results were definitive, non-recordable across the board, no latency, no amplitude, and no measurable velocity. The motor division, the nerves responsible for the muscles that lift the foot and turn it outward, weren't working. For the anatomy nerves at home, the common peroneal nerve, as you mentioned earlier, splits into the deep peroneal nerve, which controls the tibialis anterior for dorsiflexion. Again, it's bringing your toes back towards the shin. And it also splits into the superficial peroneal nerve, which controls the peroneus longus and brevis on the outside of the lower limb for eversion, turning the foot outwardly. In this case, the entire common peroneal distribution below the knee was silent. They also checked F waves. This is a round-trip signal that travels from the point of stimulation at the leg all the way up to the motor neurons in the spinal cord and back down again. It acts as a sort of long-range scout to see if there's a blockage anywhere from the foot to the spine. In this patient, the F waves were also non-recordable. But then there's a twist. His sensory nerve conduction was completely normal. This measures nerves that carry feeling from the skin back to the brain. This tells us that the injury was selectively targeting the motor axons while leaving the sensory fibers largely untouched. Next, we move to the needle EMG or electromyography. This is where they stick a small electrode directly into the muscle to look at its electrical activity. Now, normal resting muscles are pretty quiet. But if a muscle has lost its nerve supply, the fibers can become kind of irritable. They start firing on their own. Now, this is a sign that the muscle has lost its nerve supply, which is also called denervation. In this patient, the tibialis anterior and the peroneal muscles showed heavy denervation. This is obvious from the atrophy that we saw in physical exam. But there's also an electrical signature called fibrillation potentials, which are these small little waves that you can pick up on EMG, another sign that the muscles have been denervated. Interestingly, when the short head of the biceps femoris, that's part of your hamstrings muscle, was tested, something strange was found. This is the only muscle supplied by the peroneal nerve that branches off above the knee. And in this patient, that muscle was stone cold normal. So, Austin, let's look at the map we've drawn. We got a 24-year-old male with a clean MRI. We got a nerve that can still carry sensory information, but its muscle division isn't working. The electrical block has been precisely localized. Everything above the knee is working, but everything below the knee is electrically silent from that nerve. Given that this apparently started right after his weight loss and high-intensity exercise program, do you have a final diagnosis for what the heck happened to this patient? Yeah, this has only further supported my suspicion so far. And one curiosity here, I mean, he did seem to mention that he had a little bit of some maybe subjective numbness on the dorsum of the foot, which could also fit with some of the sensory distribution of these nerves. Maybe it wasn't enough of a sensory dysfunction to be detected by the study. But yeah, a lot of that is, I would say, not necessarily above my pay grade, but adjacent to it because the details of those studies are not really in my field. But yeah, this really heavily localizes it to the level of the knee. And so my suspicion is that there was either some unknown, unrecognized, unappreciated trauma with his high-intensity exercise at the time that affected the nerve at his knee during that time, or this is a case of, again, rapid weight loss-induced so-called slimmer's paralysis, where the rapid fat loss in that area leads to functional kind of compression of the nerve. And again, if his weight dropped and has remained low, or he never regained body fat to kind of restore padding in that area, the nerve would not really have an ability to kind of recover its function, innervate that muscle, and lead to him to be able to lift his foot again. So that's kind of where I'm at. Color me impressed. The diagnosis is slimmer's paralysis, historically known as dieting palsy. It is a nerve entrapment of the common peroneal nerve at the fibular head. It was once a historical rarity associated with prisoners of war and individuals with severe anorexia nervosa. But there's some concern that there could be a modern spike or uptick in cases with the increased popularity of GLP-1s. Now, the pathophysiology you did describe as mostly a functional compression, but there's some thought there's a second hit, so this sort of two-hit model. As you talked about, hit number one is the depletion of that internal armor of fat. The common peroneal nerve is pretty vulnerable because it is tethered as it winds around the neck of the fibula. That's the outside smaller bone in your lower limb. In a healthy state, it's enveloped by the structural fat pad. The fat pad acts as a mechanical shock absorber, and it physically increases the space in the fibular tunnel so the nerve isn't pinched against the bone. Now, when this guy lost 11 kilos, 22 pounds in two weeks, the body presumably mobilized fat stores so rapidly that it stripped away the structural fat pad. And so without that cushion, the nerve was left sitting directly on the bone, leaving the margin of safety for compression at zero. Now, the second hit is the mechanical provocation. So he was doing the high-intensity sprints, squats, aggressive stretching, whatever that means, while his fat pad was progressively getting thinner. And so when active, that nerve needs the fat pad to dissipate pressure. Otherwise, the pressure on the nerve can get too high and disrupt blood flow to the nerve. The nerve do have a blood supply. It's pretty delicate. It's called the vasovasorum. Now, when this blood supply is compromised, nerve conduction temporarily stops. We call that neuropraxia. If it's prolonged, though, the nerve can die, and it must regrow from the site of injury. And this process is slow. This wall area and regeneration, like a millimeter a day, it's slow, and it can be incomplete. That's what apparently happened to this patient. By the time he got to the emergency room, the damage was done. He had spent 12 months with basically zero motor signal reaching those muscles. The receivers, the motor end plates in the muscles of his shin, the side of his leg, had undergone some fibrosis. They were no longer capable of receiving a signal, even if the nerve did manage to grow back. So at that point, his treatment plan shifted from neurological recovery to orthopedic salvage. He underwent a posterior tibialis tendon transfer. Essentially, the surgeons took a functioning muscle from the back of his leg and anchored it to the top of his foot. He kind of had to retrain himself how to walk and pull his foot up with this new hardware. So there's a thought that this might be coming more common, like a pharmaceutical slimmer. The GLP-1 agonists like terzepatide and retatratide can induce weight loss velocities that mimic bariatric surgery. And while the weight of weight loss isn't necessarily a problem when it's appropriately monitored, inappropriate use, and specifically facilities that are like pill mills could be increasing the risk of this. Now, the incidence of general peripheral neuropathy following metabolic bariatric surgery is reported to be somewhere between 5% to 15%. Now, that's after surgery. And within this broad category, the peroneal mononeuropathy, so single nerve issue, is one of the most frequently cited presentations. Historically, again, as prisoners of war, the incidence was about 10% in these individuals. I assume that would happen over a longer period of time just due to kind of what was happening. But in surgical cohorts, the latest evidence we have on this suggests a higher percentage than 10%, maybe closer to 15%, mostly at high-volume centers. And the incidence is probably underappreciated because it's underreported and potentially mild transient cases could be missed as like temporary numbness. So the condition is overwhelmingly unilateral or one-sided. 96% of cases are on one side rather than being bilateral, which kind of speaks to this systemic sort of...  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo the inciting event, the mechanical sort of thing that put it over the top. When studied, the most critical marker risk factor is the velocity of weight loss. So on average, people that get this are losing about 10 percent of their body weight per month, which is ends up in about five point four kilos in this particular cohort. So there's some and there's also some additional risk factors that are kind of uniquely affect this population. So first off, the population that generally goes about rapid weight loss or uses metabolic bariatric surgery or GLP ones, they tend to be more commonly individuals with the history of metabolic syndrome or type two diabetes. So there's already perhaps some baseline metabolic neuropathy going on. And then these individuals can undergo rapid weight loss, which mobilizes the fat from those structural fat pads at this particularly vulnerable area, removing that shock absorber. And then, yeah, there's a biomechanical trigger potentially. So prolonged leg crossing, squatting, kneeling, et cetera. All of this could kind of put it over the edge. And there may be some co-occurring micronutrient deficiencies, specifically for folks on either who've had metabolic bariatric surgery and are being not monitored as closely nutrition wise. So like vitamin B1, which is thiamine, B12 or copper deficiency can all synergistically impair the nerve's ability to repair itself. And a nerve starved of these essential vitamins is less resilient to perhaps that ischemic stress, you know, lack of blood flow caused by the collapse of that fibular tunnel. So treatment typically revolves around weight stabilization, perhaps some B vitamin supplementation, orthosis for the foot. So just to keep it in the correct position so you don't get a contracture and so on. If there's no clinical or electrodiagnostic evidence of recovery after about three months, surgical decompression is sometimes indicated because they don't want those motor end plates. So basically where the nerve attaches to the muscle, that end plate, that interface, they don't want that to fibrose or degenerate because otherwise you're kind of up a creek like our patient. Because after in chronic cases like what he had, yeah, you're going to have to have a tendon transfer so you can walk without your foot kind of slapping the ground. Yeah, I did not know that that was a thing that could be done to manage this. So I'm glad there are some kind of creative orthopods out there who can put people back together again a different way. But yeah, you have to relearn how to like use that new newly transplanted muscle and presumably has, you know, permanent impact on function. You have to kind of relearn how to do basic things, I imagine, with the help. But that's what PM&R doctors are great at. So, yeah. Now, Austin, there's been a few case reports that have come out of individuals on GLP-1s having this. One case was actually titled the terzepatide drop. Have you seen this with any patients? Is this something that's on your radar? Yeah, I've used these medicines with lots and lots of folks. I've not seen this happen yet, although I'm aware of it as an entity. And, you know, I think it's one of those things that is a known risk. It is one of the potential tradeoffs that somebody might experience. But at the same time, it is one of the downsides of, again, just like unmonitored, overly rapid weight loss. And so having kind of it done in a way that is monitored, that is supported, where doses are being adjusted, where nutrition is being monitored. I mean, I've had also patients who I'm actually concerned that, you know, maybe their appetite is being suppressed too much and they're not actually getting in enough nutrition as they are losing weight. And that sets them up for all sorts of other deficiencies and iron deficiency and things like that. So, you know, we are – I'm quite comfortable using these medicines. I've been using them for a while now with many, many patients with great – some with – most of them, I would say, with great success and some who have speed bumps along the way that need to be kind of navigated individually. But, yeah, that kind of monitoring and guidance along the way I think is important rather than just like more is better or faster no matter what. Yeah. Yeah, I wanted to bring this case up not only because it's interesting. I did find it interesting. Yeah. But because it also raises a fundamental question in our field. Is faster actually better when it comes to weight loss? Mm-hmm. We often hear the argument that rapid initial weight loss is more motivating for the patient or the client, which theoretically could improve long-term adherence. But as this case proves, there can be a physiological cost. So I wanted to pivot the discussion towards the actual evidence on weight loss velocity. And we need to look at the tradeoff between the speed of the result and the quality of the tissue loss, specifically the preservation of lean body mass and the avoidance of collateral fattening, which is a physiological phenomenon where the body aggressively drives overeating following a period of weight loss to restore the lost lean body mass. And while doing so, the individual actually gains a bunch of fat mass alongside the lean mass. So let's start with the most obvious question. Does the data support the slow and steady mantra when it comes to weight loss? There's a safety concern. We've kind of talked about that. This slimmers paralysis, mostly related to a weight loss velocity that exceeds 10% of total body weight per month, which would be quite high for most folks. And you brought up gallstones and nutritional deficiencies. Are there any other risks or safety concerns that you have top of mind when somebody is losing weight relatively quickly? I think you alluded to one of them being that, hey, are we having some unfavorable changes in terms of the lean body mass aspect? There are certainly many favorable things. So, for example, if somebody has fatty liver disease, I would expect that to get better rapidly as people because the liver starts rapidly exporting a bunch of that fat. I think I would have to sit down and think like organ system by organ system to decide are there are there concerns from a neurological standpoint? We really covered the main one of deficiencies are the mechanical neuropathies that can develop not much from a pulmonary standpoint, not much from a renal standpoint. I'm sure there can be some things from a cardiovascular side, mainly relating to is there a hypovolemia, meaning is the person not eating or drinking enough and they end up getting low blood pressure, they get dizziness, they might be more likely to pass out. That's something that I've actually seen a fair amount of. And people, for example, who are on blood pressure medicines often need those to be adjusted. The other thing with especially like aggressive crash diets, things like that, where people are more prone to electrolyte abnormalities, you can end up with cardiovascular complications, arrhythmias, things like that that can develop. Let's see what else. So I mentioned the liver, the gallstones we've talked about, the intra-abdominal fat, which itself, you know, the gallstone risk can I've not seen like rapid weight loss associated pancreatitis, but that's probably that may be a thing that can happen, whether by way of a gallstone or if you're liberating a lot of free fatty acids into the bloodstream. And you get like severe high triglycerides, I guess that's another way that you could get there. And then again, not much in terms of the like lower GI tract or the kidneys or definitely the genitourinary tracts, not much that comes to mind. And then from there, it's musculoskeletal nature. So the muscle mass loss is the thing that comes to mind. I don't know how much of an impact I would expect with very short term rapid weight loss on bone health. I'm sure there'd be something detectable. Whether that translates into a negative longer term outcome, it'd be hard to say. So that's my like rapid pass through the organ systems and what I can think of off the top of my head. Yeah, I think that's quite good. The only other thing that comes to mind is maybe on the back end, right? It's like, great, you lost the weight, you know, if that's the target. But if if and when rate weight regain starts, if it's rapid and you were really restricted for a period of time, the refeeding syndrome type thing. We've had cases of like thyroid, thyroid toxic periodic paralysis and some other just electrolyte abnormality stuff. So, yeah, that's a concern. So that's safety. Moving on to what our listeners are probably more interested in body composition. So the impact of weight loss speed or weight loss velocity on muscle mass differs significantly between athletes, lean individuals and the general population with obesity. So for athletes, the data for sure supports slow and steady. Now, there is some nuance here because there are papers out there describing relatively quick, dramatic weight loss to make weight with preserved performance. There are a few different ways to do this. It's not highly reliable or conserved across everybody. It kind of varies significantly. We're going to set that to the side and talk about more just, hey, should you lose weight rapidly or slowly if you're an individual who's really interested in performance or otherwise an athlete? And I think there's a really good study to show the evidence on this and kind of demonstrate our position. So this is a group of elite Norwegian athletes from a variety of different sports. They were randomized to either slow or fast weight loss groups. Slow weight loss group followed a diet that resulted in losing about 0.7 percent of their body weight per week, whereas the fast weight loss group doubled it 1.4 percent body weight per week. So that's almost 6 percent per month. Now, the study ran until all athletes reached the desired weight loss, which was a minimum of 4 percent decrease in their body weight. So it lasts between 4 to 12 weeks during the study period. Both groups also engaged in resistance training four times a week. At the end of the study period, body weight decreased by about 5.5 percent in both groups, with the slow weight loss group losing a higher percentage of body fat compared to the fast group. Additionally, the slow weight loss groups on increase in their lean body mass by about 2 percent, which might be a measurement error, but it's still not a loss, which it seems positive. And their one rep max squat and bench press improvements were greater in the slow weight loss group compared to the fast group. About 12 percent for the squat in the slow group versus 9 percent for the fast group and 13.6 percent for the bench press group who was using a slow weight loss approach compared to 6.4 percent in the fast group. Overall, to me, this suggests like, look, if you're already relatively lean, you know, and you're trying to get even leaner, probably slower is better if performance is a concern. But on the other on the other side of the coin for individuals with obesity, the data really kind of challenges that slow mantra. There's been a few recent meta analyses that suggest for individuals with obesity, the rate of weight loss does not inherently dictate the amount of muscle loss provided that protein intake and resistance training are controlled. We know those are two big levers that like preserve muscle mass. And in this particular population, it doesn't seem like going faster produces more lean body mass loss. Individuals with higher body fat can mobilize fatty acids more effectively and they have more of it to do so. And that can cover some of the energy deficits and preserve some of the muscle loss. This is a lot of the mechanistic stuff that keto advocates tend to cite. But, yeah, it actually looks like this plays out for individuals with obesity who do lose weight a little faster. So you might potentially choose that if somebody was interested in doing so with knowing the potential risks and maybe having that top end velocity ceiling of 10 percent per month in mind. The next thing we've got to move on to is metabolic adaptation. Austin, do you ever talk about metabolic adaptation with your patients? Not using those terms. I think the concepts are kind of baked into my my conversation, mainly when, you know, I have these conversations all the time now with folks who have many times been struggling with their weight their entire life and feel like they're doing everything right. And yet, despite their best efforts, they either struggle to make progress or they make initial progress and then things tend to rebound. And so it's kind of baked in as part of the explanation of how, quote, unquote, the body fights back after your initial weight loss efforts, both in terms of increasing appetite and that kind of question of metabolic adaptation. I put a lot more emphasis on the appetite aspects here, but that's something that's kind of baked into that conversation implicitly. Yeah. Yeah. People talk about metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis or, you know, you broke your metabolism, something like that. You know, they talk about it frequently, but the definition is kind of messy. The way I define it and the way that a lot of researchers that I read define it is that metabolic adaptation is a greater than expected reduction in the amount of calories used in a day in response to weight loss. So, for example, we know as your body mass goes down, you're going to burn less calories because you have less mass. Now, that proportion of muscle to fat loss, those two things require different amounts of energy per day. And so if you lose way more muscle than fat, you could go down more. This is all predictable. Metabolic. That's not metabolic adaptation. Metabolic adaptation is if there's additional reductions in how many calories that you need per day to keep the lights on in your body that we don't predict by just the tissue loss alone. So it's maybe like a metabolic efficiency increase. Data indicates that rapid weight loss increases the metabolic adaptation more than gradual weight loss. And there's actually a really good meta analysis that came out, I think, in 2020. Yeah, there's a deeper suppression or greater suppression of resting metabolic rate. That's basically how many calories you use per day to keep the lights on in your body. In a comparative analysis, rapid weight loss groups who lost about seven and a half kilos reduced their resting metabolic rate by about 137 calories per day compared to only 87 calories per day in a gradual weight loss group who lost about the same weight. They also didn't have significant differences in lean mass that was preserved. So kind of speaking more to that, what we just said, that, look, for individuals with obesity, it doesn't look like they're going to lose that much more muscle mass, if any, if they lose it rapidly. But there might be some more metabolic adaptation. What's not clear to me is if this is actually meaningful, meaning that, yeah, there's a difference in calories by, you know, 50, 60 calories. But most of these studies or short term, eight weeks, 12 weeks, 16 weeks, does this end up shaking out in the long run and does it even matter? For example, we look at even the biggest loser data. The most the people who lost the most weight and kept it off the longest had the most metabolic adaptation. And so to me, it's almost like individuals who are maybe genetically set up in a way to be obesity sensitive to not only the environment, but then also like resistant to weight loss interventions overall. They may just have, you know, this is the lot in life that they've kind of they've kind of got. They were dealt a not so great hand genetically, and it is what it is. And so I don't know that we should be micromanaging or selecting a particular dietary approach or intervention otherwise that focuses on metabolic adaptation. What do you think about that? Yeah, I fully agree with that. And I think that knowing or I wouldn't even claim to know, but having a general sense of just the sheer number of variables that can impact these types of outcomes with this concept of metabolic adaptation just being one of them. It's like you're you're moving a fraction of a tiny chess piece on like this super complex multivariate board. Many variables we can't even appreciate many variables. We don't we can't even modify. So like control the big things that you can and then the rest may or may not be entirely within your control. And this feels like one of those really tiny ones that is both probably less within our control than we would like it to be, but also less significant of a factor than it is often attributed to be. Yeah, I think it's something you can observe, but to the extent you can control it. I don't I don't think so. I think it's more of like an adaptive response and like mostly, you know, managed or influenced by things outside of your control. And then I almost view it as like a like a signature of success. If you didn't get any metabolic adaptation, I don't know that you lost that much weight. Yeah, that's fair. So that's that's the metabolic adaptation arm of this. So moving on to adherence, there's this thought, well, look, you have to go low and slow because that's the that's the only way you can keep it off long term or adhere to this diet long term or intervention long term. Well, contrary to that belief that thinks that slow weight loss is more sustainable, the data suggests that rapid initial results can actually be beneficial for adherence. There's a number of studies on this showing that the amount of weight loss initially within the first few weeks sort of predicts not only achieving that minimally clinically important difference in weight change. So losing at least five percent of their starting body weight, but also maintaining it so can be predictive. And whether this is like a positive feedback loop, like from a behavioral standpoint, like, oh, I was able to succeed. I'm going to keep going. Or if it just identifies those who can be successful, like the people who don't lose a bunch of weight initially, they're like, well, you weren't going to be successful anyway. So good luck. I can't speak to that. But is this something you see in your practice that people they start on these medications or, for example, just lifestyle alone? The initial sort of burst kind of predicts how they do long term. You see that? Yeah, it's tough to say. I think that I emphasize with patients just how individual this whole process is, especially with the use of medicines, that different people respond differently to different medicines and to different doses of medicines. If I had to guess that, yeah, if I start somebody on the lowest dose of terzepatide, for example, and they experience, you know, a dramatic impact on their appetite, they're super sensitive to it and lose a bunch of weight. In general, those people I would predict to have better outcomes compared with somebody who doesn't feel much of anything. And I'm cranking it all the way up to the max dose of 15 milligrams. However, I have also seen plenty of people. And I recently had some of these conversations, a patient who started on two and a half and they were like not responding terribly well to it just yet. And they were starting to get apprehensive. They're like, should I shouldn't I be feeling more? Am I a hypo responder? And I'm like, cool. Like we don't we don't know that yet. There are plenty of people who actually don't really tend to respond a ton to the lower doses. And then we reach some sort of maybe a threshold effect in people. Once we get to seven and a half and something unlocks and then they start making a ton of progress. So I hesitate based on my own kind of observational experience here to draw any sort of confident conclusion other than I've seen massive amounts of variability between people and how they respond. Both physiologically and, of course, psychologically as well. So the process, some people are like totally open and patient and no concerns. Others are much more impatient and want to see a big result on a low dose and get apprehensive if they're not getting there. Other people think that they really want to be on the maximum dose. And I'm like, well, if you're responding well to the lower dose, we don't actually have to increase it. And similar in terms of intensities of other interventions. Right. When it comes to regular dietary interventions, exercise interventions, just people are massively different. The sheer number of variables at play, both known and unknown, is just enormous here. And again, many of them are things that you did not choose or you were not in control of. Right. And so that's kind of part of the challenge that we're trying to deal with, with as good as these tools are that we have still compared with that level of complexity. Relatively, relatively crude, I would say, you know. Yeah. Yeah. And moving on to the final sort of thought between like, look, it's slower, better than faster. What about the potential for weight regain? The prevailing dogma is that slow and steady prevents weight regain. Well, it's not really supported by data as well. Large scale studies, including this Purcell study we're going to talk about, as well as the National Weight Loss Control Registry, consistently find no significant difference in the amount of weight regained over the long term between slow and rapid weight loss. Again, it kind of doesn't really matter for individuals with obesity. So this Purcell study is interesting. It's a randomized trial, 200 participants. One group underwent a rapid weight loss program, 12 weeks, where they want a very low calorie diet, like 800 calories a day. The other one went on a gradual program where they reduced their intake by 500 calories per day. The success rate, the rapid weight loss group was far more likely to hit their target weight loss. About 81 percent of that group was successful compared to the slow weight loss group. Only 50 percent was successful. After three years, both groups regained roughly 70 percent of their lost weight. The rapidity of the initial loss did not make the regain worse. And maintenance was equally difficult for both groups, which is kind of how I view this. I'm like, I don't really care if you go fast or slow. My main concern is that you got there because I think maintaining that is going to be challenging either way. But first, we got to get there to even worry about maintenance. Does that make sense for you? Yeah, I mean, I think we've talked about this a lot where it matters how you got there with certain things. But with other areas, it's like we really care about the outcome. And so to the extent we see a lot of people now, especially like kind of moralizing around, did you get there with diet and exercise? Or did you use the medicines or did you use the surgery? And it's like we put a lot more emphasis on like, let's get there. Yeah. And then and then, you know, the details of how you got there and the implications of that and what does maintenance look like? We can kind of negotiate along the way. This is another super common conversation I'm having with folks who even before we've even started, for example, the use of a GLP-1 agonist. They're like, well, what does it look like when it comes to maintenance? And it's like, well, happy to have that conversation, of course. And I lay it out for them. But it's like we got we got to get there first before we can negotiate. What does that look like for you? And we can't even predict. Are you going to be somebody who needs to continue using one of the medicines? Are you somebody who might be able to get away with lowering the dose or using it a little less frequently? Are you one of the, you know, relatively few people, maybe in the order of 15 percent of people who can actually come all the way down, potentially even off the medicine and sustain, you know, the majority of your weight loss? There's a lot of variation in how this looks in practice. But let's get there is the primary goal. Yeah. The analogy is like with blood pressure. Right. You know, we've talked about on this podcast before that apparently starting with multiple very low dose antihypertensive seem to work better than like maxing out one particular drug. Right. And so imagine you have a patient and you're walking them through this and they're on board. They're like, look, doc, whatever you think is right. And so they're ready to start multiple agents at a low dose. But then immediately right after that, they're like, and when can I come off? And you're like, well, maybe let's let's get there first and then we'll talk about it because, yeah, it directly impacts the risk. Now, this brings up a new paper that just got released. It's getting a lot of traffic. New study from Mass General Harvard. So, you know, it's going to get some airplay. The study is titled Weight Regain After Cessation of Medication for Weight Management, a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. This was just published. I'll link it in the show notes below. Basically, they did a meta-analysis, a study of studies on people who were on anti-abesia medications. And like, look, what happened after they got off? Now, 37 studies were included, about 10,000 patients, and they included all sorts of different anti-abesia medications. So not just GLP-1s, but even some of the older agents. And invariably, there are differences in not only how much weight was lost, but what happens afterwards. Now, the mainstream media and maybe some, we'll call them GLP-1 skeptics is not the right word. Maybe like anti-GLP-1 people, whatever. It seems like that anyway. There's plenty of those out there we know. They're like, look, after you come off the medication, you regain the weight, and you regain the weight faster than if you did lifestyle alone. And so in this particular study, they showed that, you know, the systematic review and meta-analysis, they show that, look, people come off these medications, they regain weight four times faster than those who are on lifestyle change alone, so diet and exercise. Failing to mention that the people who are on these medications lost way more weight on average. And so, yes, the absolute rate of weight regain tends to be faster because they lost more weight in the first place, but also ignores a few other kind of nuances here. So nuance number one, when we just restrict the analysis to GLP-1s on their own and we look at like one-year data of people who come off and they're off for a year, actually seem to preserve more weight loss overall than people on lifestyle alone. Now, whether that, you know, gets back to, you know, null and zero at two years, three years, four, we don't know. But at least in the first year, it looks like, look, some sort of durable effect of these agents. And then two, which is not really a nuanced point, but maybe the total point, like any intervention that causes an effect, you'll likely have to continue doing that intervention to preserve that effect, whether it's diet and exercise alone, whether it's medication, whether it's both, you know, whatever. It's not like you can just do it and be like, okay, I don't have to do it anymore. It's done. Yeah, that's, I mean, honestly, most interventions that we have. Here's another interesting hot take that I will have. I have heard rumblings that there are some groups, and I've not confirmed this for myself yet, that looking into, for example, some of the gene-based therapies around GLP-1 signaling. For example, we have existing, you know, therapies for this in the context of sickle cell disease, for example. There are some that are being studied for lipid management as well, essentially like a one-time dose of this gene-editing treatment that will then lead to a permanent durable lowering of your blood lipid levels, or that will edit your, you know, sickling hemoglobin genes to essentially cure that condition. So I'm curious to see for all of these folks who are vehemently against the use of GLP-1s, because when you tend to stop the therapy, the effects of the therapy do not persist. I have to assume that they will be vigorously in favor of one-time treatment options for this kind of thing. Yeah, they're not going to be either. And I don't know that I am either, because I'm just open to seeing what are the potential benefits, what are the potential downsides, and I will evaluate that evidence, like, you know, on its own when it comes to pass. But it's kind of disingenuous, and it's going to be very predictable how that ends up playing out, I think, on their part. Yeah, if you agree that the sort of root cause of obesity is a genetic mismatch with the modern environment, and then if you secondarily agree that, look, it's going to take some time to change the environment to a satisfactory level that really sort of reverses course here, it's going to take some years. So then you're like, well, I guess our actual target is genetics. And then we somehow identify this genetic target, and we can, you know, create a treatment that directly does that one-time dose, gene editing, CRISPR, whatever. And it does actually change their genes. And now they are well-matched for the current environment. And that's the treatment for obesity. You're cool with that. And further, what does that Venn diagram look like between the COVID vaccine modifies your DNA versus root cause treatment of obesity modifies your DNA? Like, how does that square? With the technology that we have, I mean, identifying, like, to the way that you've described folks as being kind of more obesity-sensitive or obesity-resistant in the context of the modern environment, what are the variables that are most predictive of a, quote-unquote, obesity-resistant phenotype? What do the genetics look like of somebody who is, quote-unquote, naturally lean? And then is there a gene therapy that you want to try to institute to folks who struggle to kind of make them more obesity-resistant? I'm not even advocating for this because it's just like a whole minefield of a complex topic in terms of, you know, editing people's genetics. And at what point in life do you do that? And what are the implications? And things like that. But that's kind of the phenomenon that you're getting at here. Yeah. I don't know. I think it'd be cool, like, great, if possible, you know, that would be an interesting option for folks. But, yeah, TBD. I just find the argument that you shouldn't use GLP-1s because when you come off them, you're going to regain the weight. And it's like, that's like saying you shouldn't exercise because when you stop doing it, you're going to, you know, lose the muscle mass or whatever. It's like, yeah, maybe there's a more durable effect of exercise longer term than GLP-1s. Sure. But for a dietary pattern, it's like saying you can only eat healthy for the next year to lose the weight. And then after that, you have to stop because we don't want you to have to keep doing it. It means you have to keep persistently doing something. Yeah. Yeah. To spite all the other. Yeah. Yeah. It's nonsense. All right. Austin, any closing thoughts on losing weight rapidly versus slowly for metabolic health, long-term health trajectory, and maybe how you contrast that with active individuals, athletes who are looking to be a little leaner but not necessarily for a health purpose. Yeah. I think it's a good topic. I think you did a good job kind of surveying the evidence and this whole episode, including starting from the very beginning with the mystery case, serves to lay out and describe a fair amount of the potential pros and the potential cons of doing this, just like any intervention has potential benefits of potential downsides. And so then our job, whether as people considering these paths before us or as clinicians guiding folks through it, is helping them weigh those potential benefits and downsides on an individual basis. So somebody who is at extremely high risk of cardiometabolic complications, yeah, I might favor a little bit more rapid if I can, notwithstanding this maybe risk of a little peroneal neuropathy that is likely to be either not noticed or transient or something like that. But for somebody who values high-level performance, then the calculus changes a little bit there. And so these decisions should be made individually. And if you have a clinician that you're working with, then you have that level of supervision to have these kind of conversations of what does this look like. And, of course, this is all underscored by our unsurprising recommendation that anytime you're losing weight, you ought to be strength training to do your best to maintain the lean body mass and the muscle mass along the way. Agreed. Yeah, just some more clinical logic that you're spouting here. If the benefits...  aut autopoppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppooppo forum on our amas or whatever we frequently get questions about should i follow a protein sparing modified fast should i do this other rapid weight loss uh protocol and i'm like look you're not an individual with obesity to a level that is compromising your health and you are apparently concerned with performance how do i know that because you're on the barbell medicine forum otherwise how did you make it here so it seems like that's probably not the move for lean mass preservation for strength development and overall like while the adherence may not be different long term i do have concerns about rebound particularly that collateral fattening situation afterwards yeah yeah that's where why there are criteria for patient selection for various interventions now these are not hard rules written in stone no matter what like i've certainly prescribed and done things kind of quote unquote off label from time to time but why for example you see criteria for glp1s in general say bmi over 30 bmi over 27 with a comorbidity as just like here it's just on like general patient screening guidelines now have i initiated one of these medicines in a patient who did not meet these criteria for sure i have but there were specific reasons justifications and based on the conversation and the clinical assessment came to the conclusion that hey the potential benefits of this medicine outweigh the potential downsides for example one recent use had to do with a patient who had a history of like pretty significant like binge eating disorder and despite their best efforts this was a constant daily struggle that they were dealing with yet through daily heroic efforts they were actually managing to maintain a bmi below 27 and so they would you know unfortunately insurance is like now your bmi looks great this person's every day is like an absolute struggle to deal with you know that concept of like food noise and craving compulsions and things like that i'm like yeah seems to me like you stand to potentially benefit from this it's likely to remain a low dose to try to control that kind of give you a sense of control i'm not going to crank this up to max dose and aim for massive weight loss but that's not the aim of this intervention in your situation right similar with metabolic bariatric surgery there are criteria for the type of person who undergoes it we would not generally be doing metabolic bariatric surgery on somebody who's bmi's 25 or something like that you don't see scenarios where somebody gets that surgery and then it's like oh they're losing way too much weight uh we end up needing to put them on you know iv nutrition afterwards to keep their weight up or something like that it's like if that's the case i had questions maybe about the initial patient selection criteria maybe about the way that the surgery was performed uh the way it was set up led to you know over dramatic weight loss maybe they need a surgical revision things like that to like back that off etc so you need skilled clinicians doing this kind of patient selection and then guiding through that process of potential benefits potential downsides are we meeting traditional criteria are we going off label or are you just like not a great candidate for this and why and what are our alternatives instead yeah perhaps the diy use and pill mill situation uh would be not ideal yeah totally all right well that is a wrap on the barbell medicine podcast special shout out to dr austin baracki for joining us on this mystery case if you liked this episode or other episodes please leave us a five-star rating and a review it really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness for everyone here at barbell medicine i'm dr jordan feigenbaum we'll catch you next week and every week right here on the barbell medicine podcast you