 N-3, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults, faults faults, faults faults, faults faults, faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults faults The person's programming does not reflect how they're assessing their progress correctly. The body's adapting, but the program isn't just designed for how progress is being tested. So imagine somebody's running like a full on bodybuilding program, right? But the outcome that they're testing is one rep max strength. It's like, okay, well, you would expect some strength gains to happen in the lifts that are being trained. That's just how we respond to exercise. It's not really specific for the test that you care about the most, right? Or if somebody is testing their one rep max squat, bench press, or deadlift, but they're not seeing any of those exercises in the program, it's like, this isn't really indicative of like you're doing, you're overtrained, you're undertrained or whatever. It's just that the training is not matched to how you're assessing it. The key here, again, is to monitor the session RPE. And, you know, if you're sleep and nutrition are normal, there's probably a programming formulation issue in this case, meaning that how your training does not accurately reflect the variables that you're testing, the metrics that you're testing. The second problem here is monitoring too often. We know that performance varies day to day. Again, it's like your fitness adaptations on board relative to the fatigue you have on board in a particular environment and all workouts simultaneously develop and also test performance. So it can be hard not to anchor to historical performances. So if you're a little weaker, you're like, performance is down. Or if it's a little better, you're like, oh, I actually got stronger. But day to day and even week to week variability can be high. We talked about that in our daily max studies that we cited earlier. And fitness adaptations occur over time. Again, like building a savings account requires deposits to accumulate over time. So when people are saying, look, I didn't get stronger compared to the last time I trained and you're like, well, when's the last time you trained? You're like, they say yesterday. You're like, I wouldn't expect progress to happen. They're like last week. You're like, well, it's only one week. Now, if someone says like for months on end, that seems like a more reliable signal. Now, whether you're overtrained or undertrained, that can be hard to tease out. Fortunately, we developed this training plateau action plan that we released a few months ago. And we think about for strength that your estimated one rep max or tested one rep max should go up somewhere in about four weeks, over four weeks. And that's relative to your most recent estimated one rep max. So not like historical, for example. Same thing for conditioning. To the extent that your cardiovascular fitness is going to go up, we would expect an improvement in that within about four weeks compared to, again, the start. And then for hypertrophy, six to eight weeks is a reasonable timeframe to seemingly observe an increase in muscle cross-sectional area, assuming that the environment is supportive of these things. Again, adequate amount of sleep, adequate nutrition, and that you're actually doing the training. The third way that people get this wrong is the same thing we've been talking about the entire podcast, a mismatch between your training load and the resources that you have to deal with it. And this can happen in both directions. A person who's not progressing because they're genuinely overreached would probably warrant a load reduction, meaning like their life, total life load has gone up. They probably need to reduce their training load. An athlete who is not progressing because they've been systematically underloading and interpreting normal fatigue as a warning signal probably needs to increase their training load. Similar presentations, not progressing, but opposite interventions. So it's the interpretation that matters here. Getting this wrong towards underloading is just as costly as getting it wrong towards overloading. It's probably more common, I think, in the population that reads and listens to overtraining content. I just don't see people kind of getting to a truly overtrained state that often. Does that kind of square with your assessment? You've been in this space for a while. Yeah, I really have little to add, I think, to the way that you've fleshed this out and the way that we think about it, a lot of this involves conversations with people to try to get a feel with how they've been approaching not just their training program broadly, but what it's like for them to approach each individual training session, what it feels like, and we can often draw some conclusions and nudge them in a more favorable direction kind of over time. But yeah, I think I keep coming back to mismatch, which really, you know, there's even some utility in looking at this similar to how we talk to people about injury. If you think about this type of a syndrome as a quote-unquote injury, we would approach it similarly. We often will broaden the variation that they're exposed to, pull back, you know, their RPEs, how close to failure they're getting, and then tinker with other variables like volume and frequency really based on their, like, preferences and their current tolerance. But those aren't, like, the primary levers that we're often messing with even in, like, a rehab context. So there's some interesting similarities there when we look at it as a mismatch between their tolerance and what's being asked of them. Yeah. Yep. And so as we discussed in the training plateau action plan, if somebody presents with performance going down and they're sore all the time, they're tired, their motivation is decreased and their session RPE has gone up and is climbing, probably a good idea to reduce training loads is too high for their current resources. If they're relatively fresh, they're not sore, motivation is high, their session RPE has been going down or it's steady, their training load is likely too low for the resources that they have on board. And so they would likely increase that to get performance to do the thing that they wanted to do. This is all covered in our free training plateau action plan. You can check that out. It's linked in the description. So what do we do with all this? We've got the vocabulary with the caveat that it imposes this sort of false precision on a continuous variable that is noisy. We have some of the biological background with the acknowledgement that the subjective report of the individual outperforms laboratory testing most of the time. And we have a very clear picture now of how challenging interpreting training results can be. So what remains is like, well, what do you, what do you do about all this? We keep going back to assessing trends, right? So with performance, what's happening over weeks and months versus day to day, day to day is almost irrelevant to me outside of like an acute injury, right? Even if someone's strength was down, for example, it's down 30%. I'm like, sounds like you've had a bad run of it, you know, in the last few days. Let's see what happens over the next week, for example. Sure. Session RPE. Is it creeping up? How is your session RPE look over the last week, two weeks compared to the three to four weeks before that? Again, trends, not what's happening on a single day. Same thing with environment. What's your dietary pattern been looking like over the past few weeks? How has your weight changed? How has your sleep looked? Over the last, you know, few weeks, for example, what's your life stress look like? Again, short term, I missed a meal. I slept, you know, poorly last night. I had a pretty stressful day. Yes. Can there be some acute effect, especially severe? Sure. But like everyone who's listened to this podcast has had an out of body experience at least one time in the gym when they felt hungover, when they felt tired, when they missed a meal, when life stress has been high. Training performance is just too noisy to sort of map to a single short term, single day type issue. So again, look at trends in those things. Finally, look at soreness, mood and motivation relative to training load. If you're becoming gradually more sore, your mood is tend to suffer. Your motivation is going down. To me, those are the variables I'm using to tease apart. Is this too much training load for the person right now versus too little? If performance is going down and these things are going up, session RPE is going up, soreness is going up, motivation is going down. Consider the training load is probably too much. Reduce the intensity of the volume. 20% reduction in both of those is a reasonable target. Admittedly, I just made that up. It's speculative. If performance is going down, but these things are steady or improving, session RPE is not going up. It's maybe going down. Your motivation to train is still there. You're not feeling too sore. It's probably too little training stress, too little training load. So you can increase training load, usually volume. If previously responsive to that same program, about a 10% increase. So another set or two is a reasonable modification. Again, admittedly speculative, but that's what I do in practice. If you weren't previously responding well to a program, you're five weeks into it, haven't gotten any fitness adaptations. There's something deeper going on there, potentially with the program, whether it's exercise selection, whether it's your average intensity. There's a lot of different changes you can make. I would start with increasing volume up a little bit and maybe average intensity and then circling back around and saying, hey, look, was this actually a good formulation of training for you with respect to exercise selection, for example? So still, you're addressing these both through programming. If changing the programming and addressing lifestyle factors does not resolve this sort of performance decline, consider a medical workup. Austin, what would that look like for you? If you had a person who's, look, I've got the Barbo Medicine Training Plateau Action Plan. I went through all the steps. Use your guys' programs. Nothing doing. How do you start that workup? And obviously, you're an internist, so this could go in legitimately thousands of different directions. But how would you do that? Yeah. I mean, the easiest answer here is to set up a consultation with a trusted healthcare professional. That could be one of us. We, and I do these kind of consults with people semi-regularly. We offer them through Barbo Medicine to be a bit self-serving there, I suppose, in the sense that, hey, I recommend such a service if somebody is having trouble navigating the space. And maybe if they don't have another trusted clinician or resource that they can work through this with, but I'm looking at, based on the history that they're describing, again, are there localizing symptoms that make me more concerned about a particular area or organ system, or is it a more generalized process, in which case I'm looking at more of these generalized things. In many patients, especially women, younger women, reproductive age women, iron deficiency, again, that prevalence is just so high. And so many people don't test for it or they test for it improperly. A blood iron level is not the right test. A blood ferritin level is the right test, but there are caveats to interpretation. You cannot trust lab reference ranges. So I'm going to rant about that again. Sleep, sleep apnea testing, working with a sleep medicine physician if you need to, looking for a prior history of post-viral syndromes, infections that trigger this kind of thing, endocrinopathies, whether thyroid or testosterone, things like that. If the person's on other medications and supplements, how could those be impacting things? So it's going to really involve a detailed history and then an individualized evaluation and assessment plan. It's not necessarily just like getting a massive panel of like every lab under the sun. I do have people who come in with those sorts of like massive lab test panels that they've had done, whether they've self-sought those things out, whether somebody else has checked them. And honestly, going through them, especially when it comes to hormone testing, a lot of the signal that we end up getting, or I would say not signal, a lot of the results that we end up getting turn out to not be signal and end up being noise that is unhelpful and in many cases shouldn't have been tested at all. So it can be messy and you need to work with someone you trust for this.