 All right, we did it by popular request. We flew Dr. Baraki out here to train, we flew Dr. Baraki out here to train, mic'd up. We don't have the exact same workouts today, so we'll go back and forth, but yeah. We're both starting with deadlifts, and so again, you get insight into our top secret deadlift warmup. All right, let's do it. What are you doing today? Probably some eights or tens, something like that. All right, cool. Yeah, so I've got sets between four and six, and... This is the top secret barbell medicine warmup. I've got to make sure I start my clock. That noise you hear in the background is somebody who's not very well trained dropping their deadlifts. I said that noise you hear in the background is somebody not very well trained dropping their deadlifts, which I do not like. Just don't drop the bar. Look, if Benny Magnuson can deadlift over a thousand and set the bars back down without making a noise, you don't have to drop the bar from knee height. That's how you assert dominance. That's how you just show that you're not very strong. It's like a direct relationship between how strong you are and likelihood of dropping the weight. I mean, if you use Benny Magnuson as evidence... That's what I just said, yeah. If you pull a thousand... 1015 and set it down. Yeah. Oh yeah, it's 1015 because Bolton was 1008, right? Yeah. I just did this bench press warm up video, which is warming up with the bench. And I'm like, why are you know, I don't know why people do all this weird stuff like shoulder stretches and internal external rotation. The people behind me are doing all of that stuff. I didn't even know. It's terrible. I think it's a good... A jack. Can you do one more set or are you good? Alright. He might find a jack. You want chalk? You want chalk? Not for this. Not for that. Alright, camera. You in charge of the playlist? Right, yeah. Alright, so you're warming up. You're doing 8s to 10, something like that? Yeah. Any specific thoughts to like where you're going to go load wise? Yeah, I've had, as I was telling you before we started, a ton of various setbacks in various forms, whether it be some ache and pain stuff, some illness, some work stuff, etc. And so I'm not on a consistent enough trajectory of performance to where I can confidently say I'm shooting for this load today. Yeah. So it's more of a, I'll feel out, I'll feel out how the RPE progresses as the weights go up and that'll help me to kind of, like we've talked about it before, we've described it as like a, you know how they have like hurricane projection maps? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like here's the hurricane and it gets wider, it's kind of like the opposite. It like funnels down towards an arrow point as you get closer and closer to your target. Yeah. I did two sets, no, three sets of 585 for six last week, so theoretically I should be going up. I don't feel great. And I also did a lot of cycling this morning. Yeah. Because I had to get it in, going out of town, so. But, on the other hand, no excuses. No. To quote the philosopher, it's not Drake. Scalpel. Scalpel. I'll tell you I've also been like 188 pounds. Oh my God. Yeah. Yeah. Not good. Well, it is funny though, so like I don't think either of us think that like your body weight has this, especially small changes outside of illness. Yeah. Like really correlate well to strength. But you do note quite frequently when you get lighter. Yeah, I mean I think that I was riding, when I was at my strongest last summer, I think I was riding pretty consistently around 195. Yeah. Or so like 192 to 195 range. Yeah. I've definitely noticed some lean body mass loss since then. Sure, yeah. But you were intentionally trying to like, change your diet and lose stuff. And then some of the stuff's unintentional as well. This stuff most recently has been firmly unintentional. Yeah. I'm the lightest I've been in the last. Are you sub 200? No, I was 201 this morning. Oh, okay. People were like, you're looking huge. I'm like, leaner. Leaner, leaner. Leaner plus shadows. Body hair. Alright. Body hair. That's how you CGI yourself. Alright. what what what what Alright. It looks strong. A lot of placebo going on right now. Now I know that, I know that, I noticed that you're doing a mixed grip. Yes. And you're not alternating every set. I haven't alternated in, when did I start lifting? 14 years ago. I only had to do it one time when my right scapula was hurting. Oh yeah, I remember. And it was just like a weird, yeah. But that was like three months or four months. And people were like, oh, but one side's got to be like different than the other. It's like, human body's asymmetrical. Yeah. And you want those adaptations anyway, right? I mean, yeah, we've cited some interesting research on a lot of the rehab stuff about how athletes adapt and how like tennis players' dominant arm is like longer, yeah, thicker and higher bone density and things like that. There's some stuff on like the front foot on fencers and also on weightlifters when they jerk. Yeah. Rowers, since you guys talked about rowing a ton on the last podcast, similar. Yeah, big row guy. Yeah. Don't worry guys, I'm not using the straps. So I'm putting them on for decoration. You ever feel like you're just in the way? Always. All the time. Well, as a student. As a student, as a med student, you are in the way. Even if you think you're not, you are. That's probably why I hated the OR so much. Yeah, they just like nudge you out of the way. And then you bump something that's supposed to be sterile. Yeah, and you're like, well, fuck. I guess I'll just see myself out. Some better than I thought today. It looks good. Yeah. You forgot to drop the weight though from neat for me. I just need the straps. This is also, people should know, I'm starting with the excuses. This is day four of training in a row. Okay. I did ride. So you're traveling? Yeah, I was cycling for over an hour this morning. Usually don't flip it up like that, but here we are. And how do you usually separate your longer conditioning efforts from? Usually I put them on off days when I'm not lifting. But like Wednesday, I had a lift yesterday. Sure. So I put a shorter one. I was like, well, I ran out of time. Yeah. And then my lips are chapped. So we'll see. Good playlist though. You're doing three sets at whatever? Two sets today. Do you feel like their programming is doing anything that you have not done much of before? Or like anything different about it? No. No, the current stuff, it seems a lot like our high-purchase B and bodybuilding couplets. Which kind of makes sense. It's like, if you feel like you're putting out good programming and you're running good programming, they should probably look. Yeah. People DM me stuff all the time. They're like, hey, what do you think about this? Will you comment on this? Who? Sorry? People DM. Oh. I'm like, I mean, I could. Yeah. But I won't. I got a message when I posted the ACP meeting thing today. Somebody said, it's bullshit. They're all liars. Yeah. Okay. Next. You know, your reply has got to be, yeah, so who are you going to go see when you get sepsis? Yeah. Go find, go see your naturopath. Go see your naturopath. Go see your homeopathic doctor. Yeah. They'll give you water. They'll give you water, but the water remembers that it had antibiotics in it at one time. Was there a presentation on how to get that big pharma money? Or what do you know what I what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what what All you needed to do is just come train with your good friend Jordan. Not hard. I'll probably take one more. 585? No. 585, 675, 765. Well, I like it's warm for me now. Yeah. What's your plan? 45? Yeah. 585, 590. Just saying. Oh, 85 again? Well, you know what I'm saying? Like, I could go up, but like... I can never read your bar speed. What do you think I was going to do? 545. Oh, like I thought you were going to go down. Oh. I'll just do whatever. What's your algorithm on Instagram look like these days? Algorithm on what? On Instagram, on your explore page. I don't really look at it. Oh. This is going to say a lot. Cat stuff from Lorraine. I get watch stuff from Alex. Oh, okay. Entrepreneur is a very common... You know that account? That meme account, Entrepreneur? No. It's like the satire hustler account. Oh, okay, nice. So all of that stuff is very prominently featured. That's because like Sal probably sends me a lot of that. Oh, yeah. Grindset, baby. Right. 24-7. Hustled up. Once we drop seed oils, then we'll be ready to jump to the next level. Sure. I'm just going to try to use... Drop seed oils, acquire crypto. That's it. Next chat is enter the chat. Follow Elon. Follow... I don't dislike this music, but I need something more focal. More focal, sure. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Should have done 545. I didn't feel hard. Look hard. My thing is, if it's under 600, I really can't bring myself to care. Yeah. And so like, it's volitional velocity. I feel like now it's like National Geographic. So like I can narrate Austin's setup. The mature predator puts on his belt while he checks his shirt sleeves. Short hike prior to putting on straps. If you'll note, while he stalks his prey, he will do the short hike again. Watch closely. That looks good. We would probably tell him to stand up tall all the way at the top, but that's pretty good. That looks good. Doesn't it seem like once you lose your rhythm, it just gets harder? For no reason. Yeah. All right. I'll take it. See, had this song had been on, I would not have had to put my own headphones in. For those of you who don't know, this is like the... I don't know if it was a PR song. It was just like, oh, it's getting heavy now. It does something subcortical. Well, yeah. Something in your temporal lobe activates a neural network. You have a sentimental value associated with this song. All right. Yeah, that's enough for today. Enough deadlifts? I got a... I'm going to do either pendulum squats or leg press or something afterwards. Okay. Are you going to squat squat? I'm going to do some upper body stuff and then see how I feel. Okay. My back might be adequately stimulated today. For the next month. Yeah. But after next weekend in Brooklyn, I'm not having to travel every week anymore. Okay. It's been like six weeks of every weekend I'm someplace else. Somewhere else, yeah. So when that stops, training will also get better. I did that a little over a month ago. It just puts you out of your rhythm, you know? Yeah. That's the whole thing. People are like, how can I set myself up for success? To get as strong as possible. If I wanted to in a short period of time. It's like, all right. Super chill routine. Yeah. Not really going anywhere, doing anything else, like whatever. Yeah. Extra gym stress is low. You're in a generally stable place in your life. And on top of all that, you happen to get lucky. Right. That things are lining up otherwise. And then if... In training. For a lot of people, if their life were truly, quote unquote, optimized for these kind of outcomes, they either can't do that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or when they do it, they're like, I don't want to live like this. I want to go out and do stuff and have fun. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. It's like, are you sure you want that? Yeah. For a short period of time. Sure. But then sign up for a meet. And then you get depressed afterwards. Yeah, yeah. Post-meet blues. I get pre-meet blues when you stop training as much. And then you're like, all right, I'm like ready to like do stuff. Heart rate 78. Oh, nice. That cardio though. I do think we should put out some more dedicated conditioning specific programming content. Sure. Because I don't think we have much. All everybody talks about is... It's not cardio medicine. Zone 2. And don't even know what they're talking about. Or what that actually means. And it means different things for different people. The watch now has a Zone 2. Although you can adjust what those zones are. Yeah. Yeah. It's such a like trot you cutting it off there All right, so swap stance ish a couple warm-ups All right warm enough you want this how heavy is that is that like a warm-up load for you? Yeah, okay Oh Sled way I'm like 45 just how you remember it. Yeah Yeah, it doesn't matter the accuracy the precision is what matters So when you're doing when you're doing leg press I told the last time I was on a training blog I was like I just try to make it to the extent I get more quad more knees forward Yes, I put my feet lower. Yeah on the pad and generally a narrower stance Yeah, yeah higher you go is gonna be like more hamstrings more adductor. Yeah, sure Yeah, and then you get a more chance of also like some active spinal flexion to you can hear because it's just Kind of crunching you that way on there. Yeah, how it is organized the way to see to set up There's one over here. That's completely vertical and I'm like I just imagine this yeah sled coming down Five to eight No one cares what you leg press, but I bet you're gonna do it Better be more than you squat is that gonna be your set your way. Yeah. Yeah. I did two more there Two more sets there. Yeah, okay Well, so I think that here's this is a point worth making okay, because I actually ran into this issue recently with a client that if you are introducing movements that are novel or That are variants or patterns or equipment that you are not like habituated to yeah It is far smarter to significantly undershoot be conservative from your initial exposures absolutely and especially if you are otherwise well trained sure because like for both of us like We are very strong in certain ways and we can like you you frequently use sports metaphors like outkick your coverage but yeah, we we have this that the strength to Move loads in ways that when they are novel to us exceed our tolerance for those things. Yeah, I remember talking about this Specifically I just gonna meet like my first pilot to me like four years after that little layoff and then I had like a strongman meet two weeks later Right, I'm like I'm really really strong right now But this is all new to me and I if anything I'm detrained a little bit from the peak. Yeah Yeah, so I was like kind of worried. Yeah, and I think it's worth thinking about when people if they're moving from a kind of a form of Programming that is like very very hyper specific. Yeah to a high of more varied Yeah, kind of program there's bodybuilding strong man like you're not gonna like less and see you're not gonna like how light you have to go at first on new Variations. Yeah, but that's what is necessary. It gives you a runway to though Yeah Yeah, I'd like to artificially create some momentum at the beginning and then like yeah have it realized later on yeah You don't need a spot do you? I just ask the grass like squat. That's right like gross Go go gadget quad I had I had the unthinkable happen when I was in this gym about a week ago a woman who I know Asked me Hey, will you take a look at my deadlift and I was like Sure, okay, because nobody ever really asked, you know If people want to give their advice without being asked and I was like cool So anyway, I saw her doing it and she's like, what do you think? I was like, yeah, I think Great job doing it. You know some positive feedback first and then and then I said compliment sandwich Correct. Well and then for efficiency. I think if you did this this and this differently, you could likely lift more weight You're doing great right now, but if you wanted to take it to the next level from a strength perspective I would do this this and this here to the cues that I would use to achieve that in less words But I'm a sure name for the camera and yes So she went she was able to add 50 pounds to her deadlift for set of five very wholesome Yeah, but I was like, but I didn't go up to her and you're with this out She asked she asked me the weird thing she was doing though also is like she would set up perfectly like hips the correct height and then drop them Yeah, and the bar rolls forward. I'm like seen this super common times. Yeah. Yeah, and she's like She's like what I was told that my hips shouldn't go up And I'm like like well they are yeah, I mean They shouldn't go up from the start from where they are right now. Yeah, but you don't have a choice. Yeah All right, eight reps. Let's go Oh Oh Oh Oh All right, so I did some more thinking about that training stress score You remember the formula kind of thing Generally, yeah For those at home The idea is to take like the zones for conditioning that came from The endurance world obviously and apply it to strict conditioning so zone one 50 to 60% proportion in what like rpe range or something. Yeah, yeah, exactly So like well, there's intensity right so 50 to 60% zone one 60 70 zone two Sure sure all the way up to zone five nine to 100 and then the rpe Matters so that your proximity to failure sure the amount of reps So I was just multiplying all of them, but then I was like You know the absolute load has to play a role Yeah, a thousand pound leg press I'm just multiplying them straight probably like no violate over or under weights Yeah, or it lets certain variables Have more weight than they're worth maybe Yeah I would suspect like rpe and maybe like the intensity range probably Well, so I wonder if you can like decide arbitrarily how you want to weigh Each of those things and then make it an additive Some instead of could be multiplicative, you know, I'm not I'm not smart enough Maybe some people in the comments will be like I'm a genius I don't so anyway, I'm still multiplying all across but I'm adding two additional factors One is whether or not it's an isolation or compound lift so effectively like Just because you were at rpe 10 At 100% or 90% or whatever it's like it's a biceps curl like sure okay, not that much fatigue So that would basically be like a half or one so it's really just altering the total stress the number you get Out of the deal and then machine versus free weight Again, the idea being you just have to you just have to like Generate the thing and then just like Try a whole bunch of scenarios and see if it makes sense or yeah, how you can break it Yeah, the numbers all like all it is is numbers, right? And I think I like using it in order to almost compare programming from like mesocycle to mesocycle or program the program like oh This is giving you 1500 units a week of stress Yeah, and this other one's giving you 2500 you like wow that seems like a big difference now whether or not the magnitude itself is like Prescriptive in that oh, we got to lower it or up But that would be the question is could you then use it and say like Accumulate this many units of stress and then it would auto-regulate itself. Yeah, ideally it'd be something like that Or if you're gonna go up and stress only go up by 20% sure 10% It's just gonna be a long formula that has no validity Yeah, probably none of this is gonna work, but That's what we that's what I think about It lets us occupy our time while during the uh the march towards death. Yeah, right People are like what do you what do you do in your free time? I'm like Uh, well besides golf moto, you know think about think about training. Yeah think about how I can make this better Think about how I can replace myself. Yes shuffle around deck chairs on the titanic to use the uh medical grades Is that is that a medical is that medical? Like when somebody is circling the drain and clearly oh, I see they're like if somebody's clearly going to die and people are talking about like minutiae like should I? Give this many milligrams of something versus something else you call it moving around deck chairs like they're going down. Yeah, yeah Yeah, analogous but in a different context above in the chart and whatnot All right last set you got one more are you done? I'm gonna do one more after you You Three more What do you think about people using bands on leg press? Bands on leg press I do not understand it. Well, there's people that are like oh, they're gonna do reverse band leg press Reverse band. Yeah, so you would like anchor it up there and it would like help you like just changes the force curve right easier at the bottom I mean, I guess it's not any better or worse than banding any other lift. Yeah, it's about the same, but I'm like If you're trying to do like Trying to generate like high velocity stuff and you're using the bands as like some sort of load to get you to react in a particular way like Okay, I don't buy into it I don't know that you should be on machines at all really That's what I'm saying though. Yeah, probably not on machines. Yeah, you could do it in maybe a testing like a like clinical research thing Just remove the skill component, you know or If you had somebody that was super sensitive at the bottom And you know the other thought I had and this is something that I thought about too because People obviously want to mitigate any as much strength loss as possible if they're rehabbing and so they will I've seen a lot of people and I probably at some point done similar things where I've tried to Like keep it as heavy as I can in the range that I can tolerate and then like find ways to unload it Yeah, just don't think that works all that well. No, no, this ends up prolonging the process. Just Take the overall load down. Yeah, it'll be fine My thing is like if you get somebody who for example, they can't do a bodyweight squat with too far advanced to them Um, but they can do a leg press But when you try to make them do full depth, they're sensitive at the bottom. You're like, all right Can I unload that but still expose them? Sure. Yeah, you use bands? To kind of like unload and gradually go lighter and lighter and lighter. Yeah, the point is we got to get off the band at some point All right, three sets eight to twelve All right, let's go Oh, looks like we're doing 15s today or whatever that was Yeah, it's nice to train with Austin Wholesome. See if we get another 15 Sick quad pump Some quad pump I guess I'm gonna go for it. Nope, that was it. Oh boy Come on quad. Let's go Oh boy What's up bro? Oh All right Single leg hamstring stuff today Not gonna show you the other angle because this is a family channel A little heavier today, so somewhere between 8 and 12 what what what what Oh, yep, that's it man. Oh boy. Let's go symmetry. Too much. Yeah, so on these sort of things, all I'm trying to do is like only move the joint that the muscle is acting over. So in this case, I'm trying to keep my hips still and my low back still and just flex my knee. Same thing on the quad extension, leg extensions, all I'm trying to do is just extend the leg but keep my ankles and hips pretty much static to the extent I can. Whether or not that actually promotes any additional growth IDK, but that's what I'm trying to do. One thing I try to do is just alternate the leg that I do first just to make sure that I'm getting like somewhat equal amounts of fatigue. You know, the fatigue is building up during the set. So the second leg is going to be a little harder, a little more fatigue there. And so yeah, just alter the leg that I do first to kind of balance that out to some extent. Whether or not that does anything, I can't tell you, but that's just the way I do it. All right, second set. Let's go hamstring. What? Sorry? No more strength? Yes, I was. Yeah, I remember you. I was over there with my buddies. Okay, cool. I recognize that guy. Yeah, Austin. Nice to meet you, man. What's up, bro? Huh? I was just asking people. I was like, I wonder what Austin's doing right now. Oh. I wonder if he's thinking about me. Did some lateral raises, some dumbbell overhead breaths, and some cable row. Did you get a sick pump? Moderate. Mild to moderate pump. Or as the youth type. Mid? Yeah, mid. Mid. I just ran into a dude who recognized me from Noble Experiment last night. What? He was like, hey. And I'm like, is this going to be a barbell medicine conversation? He was like, no, you were at the bar last night. I was like, well, yes. Anyway. Austin's getting picked up by the end of the ball. Weird that you noticed that. I guess that place isn't very big, so. Yeah. It was a cool spot. Have you ever been on a pendulum squat before? No. That by far is the hardest variation I've ever done. Really? I can only do three plates. That red thing? Yeah, yeah. Austin does pendulum squats. I'm going to try it out. Should you pull this thing down? So you just get under it. Yeah. Austin does pendulum squats. I'm going to try it out. Should you pull this thing down? So you just get under it. Oh, yeah. Seems like that would be nice. Yeah. Like I said, I only did like three plates for a couple sets of, I think, eight. If I hadn't already leg pressed, I would have done this. Yeah. Yeah. It's always taken though because people are like, oh, quad gains. It's super smooth. Yeah. It's a nice machine. Three more. Sweet. Last one. One more. Come on. All right. I finished up with calves. We're doing 10 to 15 reps. One set left for normal. So three sets. It should be somewhere in that three to one RIR. We went up in weight this week. So let's try to get 15 on this first set. One set. That's not confidence inspiring. One set. One set. I said what are you doing step bro? This is my second to last set but battery is about to die and this is going to be it. Shout out to Austin coming out to San Diego for the ACP conference and then thanks for watching make sure you like, subscribe, do all that fun stuff and we'll take you out to doing everyone's favorite exercise calf raises. Oh you're fine. Yeah yeah. Austin, say bye to the YouTube folks. See you, I don't know, a couple years when we get around to doing this again.