 sivek.com.com.au.au. All right, hey welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel or Instagram TV wherever you're catching this. This is another form review training vlog. I do promise there's other content to come. We've got some podcasts and Q and A's and two minute Tuesdays and other cool little videos that we were working on. And Baracki is coming here next week so we're going to do a whole bunch of filming. But for now, we're going to do some training vlogs. So this is footage from Thursday, yesterday. And we've got Brockie, myself, and Leah doing a bunch of different stuff. So let's hop into it. All right. So this is a supplemental squat. This is high bar squats. High bar. 375. So let's see if I can do a little bit better job here than I did last week. I think this first rep, I almost fall on my face. Yep. That just didn't get the knees far enough forward that first rep. That's better on the second rep. And usually when filming, it would be nice to get the feet in the shot. What I'm seeing here is I could probably get my knees forward faster so that they don't... Yeah, that one was pretty good. This next one looks like... Yeah, that's pretty good too. But the first few reps, I was letting the knees slide at the bottom. Versus getting them there and holding them there. And that's true regardless. So the type of squat. So all right. We'll go into this next video here. This is 385 again. And people are like, wow, you're using the talon grip. Why are you doing that? Honestly, that hand injury I had, I don't really know where it came from. But it had been bugging me. And this doesn't hurt at all. And I think it helps me get my elbows a little bit better. I don't know why I didn't frame this up very well. But yeah, so depth is good. I am doing a better job going straight up instead of backwards at all with my hips. Again, I should have framed this up better so I could see my feet. So this is not very useful. I can tell you that my sock is crooked. So I like that about myself. That bar went a little bit forward on the way down. That one was okay. And, you know, given my kyphosis, I'm okay with this. My hips tolerated this just fine. So I ended up doing four sets of that. Now, since I was the only one in the gym, I had that little self-handoff life. So this is 325. Touch and go. So Monday was paused bench. This is a touch and go. So you can see my whole setup. So I spot my grip. It's about a finger width and a half or so from the, and then the thumbs width from the start of the knurling. Take my grip. Big arch. Set my shoulders back against the bench. Pulling back hard. Good. Yeah. So the only big difference between touch and go or before, between doing a self-lift off and getting a lift off is that I, um, I set up closer to the rack, which I don't really like to do, but it helps decrease that moment arm between the shoulder and where the bar is in the rack. And so I prefer to be a little bit further away. Um, but if no one's helping me out, I gotta, I gotta do it myself. So, um, my touch and go bench is actually less or maybe only five pounds. Pounds more on the best day that I've ever had, uh, that for, uh, than my pause bench for a single rep. But for repetitions, um, I find that my touch and go is much higher than my pause bench. So if you guys look back on Monday, I did three 25, four sets of six paused and touching go, I'm doing the same for eight. So I just think, uh, uh, the repetition, um, you know, when the reps go up, it's a little bit better, uh, for me for touching go compared to paused. Uh, but for a single, I think I'm just so efficient at doing the, uh, paused, pause work, um, that it's, uh, uh, a little bit better for me doing, doing the pause rep than touching go. Uh, and this is, uh, I think my last set. So, uh, again, here you can see my leg drive. So I, that's where I keep my feet. Um, I'm, I need to do a better job keeping my feet perfectly flat on the floor. Um, I don't know why I'm wiggling around, but again, watching video is helpful. So yeah, you can get in all sorts of weird habits if you don't watch. So here we are watching. Oh good. I forgot. I took my shirt off. Um, so yeah, again, we don't have, uh, any, uh, uh, heavier dumbbells than the, um, than the hundreds. So I'm going to do these first set of 12 again and just watching these again. You don't know until you watch. I probably would have focused on fully extending my arms a little bit more. Um, yeah, well, can't be perfect, but yeah, I think, uh, next week. So I did four sets of 12 here next week. I'll either add a set. I think that's what I'll probably end up doing that. I was going to add a rep to each set, but I think I'll just add another set. That'll be the plan. I think, uh, unless I switch exercises. So we'll, I'll do a little mini block review. Uh, here's Leah safety squat bar squat. So this places the bar up higher and forward. So it's similar to a front squat, but not quite. So front squat, high bar squat hybrid. Um, notice the knees have to go further forward first and chest needs to stay up. Uh, she is pushing up on the handles during the descent and ascent. So that way, um, you know, she can keep her thoracic spine pretty well set. And I made her do these for a bunch of reps. So that's why the weight is fairly light. I believe this is 200. That's what I wrote anyway. Cause the bar is 80 or 85 pounds depending on the manufacturer. I think actually some of them are heavier, but the most common ones, I think this is a, either a rogue or elite FTS or either 80 or 85 pounds. So with straight bar weight, that would be, you know, 165 plus, you know, another 35 or 40 call it 200. Uh, yeah. And so that rep, you saw her hips kind of shoot back a little bit and a little bit there too, but you know, these are pretty solid squats and we like safety squat bar squats for developmental squats. You know, if you can handle them, although Austin doesn't like them, he did them and got a bunch of weird knee pain. And so, you know, finding the variations that end up being useful for you is, uh, that's one of the things we need to play around with for competitive lifters who are more advanced. Uh, this is Brocky not doing West side or going to equip lifting, but he's using a knee wrap. So knee wrap store energy during the descent of the squad and, uh, uh, uh, act as sort of a spring on the knees. And so he's going to do an easy four 95 for, I think six actually making more than that, but I can't tell. And I forgot if he told me, so, uh, yeah, these look really good. Lift his chest on the last rep a little bit, but I think it's the first time in knee sleep or knee wrap. So that's a pretty good. Brocky gets a pass. So another training blog down. Hopefully you guys are enjoying these. Um, we might do a section where we request some user video from you guys and we can do form review for you guys. In addition to our own stuff. That way you guys are looking at what we are looking at and, uh, we can point out that stuff. So anyway, thanks for tuning in. We'll catch you guys next time. Make sure to subscribe to the barbell medicine, YouTube channel. Catch us on Instagram live. Thanks for watching.