viaviavia. tallow, and butter as primary fat sources, and it shifts away from high-fiber plant-based foods like legumes. Now, while the debate rages on social media, many on both sides seem to miss the big picture. It isn't enough to know what to do. People need support and actionable items in order to change their behaviors. Put simply, they need a plan. To meet that need, we have officially launched the Barbell Medicine Fiber Action Plan to connect clinical science with your next trip to the grocery store. In this new four-part audio series and downloadable guide, we are diving deep into the details that the headlines miss. We're going to show you why the old soluble versus insoluble framework on your food label is outdated and what to do instead. We're going to expose the extrinsic fiber trap, explaining why those high-fiber brownies and gummies don't deliver the same bioactive benefits as eating the whole plant due to the effects of the food matrix. For those of you focused on heart health, we'll discuss how adding psyllium husk to a low-dose statin can be as effective as doubling the medication dose alone. We'll also address the viral claims that fiber is nature's zozempic, and we'll tell you the truth about what it actually does for satiety and blood sugar without the influencer hyperbole. We're even going to look at your colon. Well, not literally, but we do discuss why you need specific, slowly fermentable fibers to create the anti-inflammatory molecules like butyrate where they're needed most. No colonoscopy needed. Then, we'll give you practical tools to implement this, including a meal building tool, a ramp-up protocol so you can increase fiber without the bloating, and specific strategies to filter every item that goes into your grocery cart. If you're a Barbell Medicine Plus subscriber, you can binge the entire four-part audio series and download the full PDF action plan right now in the Plus feed. If you're not a subscriber, head to the link in the show notes to sign up. You'll get immediate access to the audio series, the action plan, and the article, as well as exclusive Barbell Medicine Plus content, product discounts, and more. The controversy in nutrition isn't going away, but having a plan can help you cut through the noise. Stop guessing, get the guide, and let's get to work.