 All right, welcome to the show. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We're going on a field trip today, as you can tell, we're not in the studio. We're going to the gym. Big surprise. So I'll take you guys with me. We're mic'd up, so it'll be fun to hear some of my thoughts, answer some questions, do the whole thing. All right, let's go train. All right, I think this is training vlog, I don't know, 43, 42? We'll figure it out afterwards. But yeah, I'm going to take you through an entire upper body workout, mic'd up. This is the last week for my block change. So, last week of this stuff, but take you along for the ride. Let's get some music. We are going to listen to Morgan Wallen Radio. Not what you expected? All right, let's go. All right, starting out with Penley Rose. So, start the warm-up, which is Penley Rose. So, I got four sets of... Shoot, I guess I should change it. I think it's four sets, six to eight, five to eight. I know we did 275 last week. Oh, cool. Oh, it's a deload week. All right, yeah. So, we're switching next week. So, there's a deload week. Got two sets of five to eight. Got two RIR. I know I did 275 last week. So, we did 280 or something like that this week, if I'm feeling okay during warm-ups. So, yeah, the warm-up here is just empty bar, a couple sets of... I don't know. I don't even count. It's like five to ten, get warmed up, start adding weight. Biggest difference is it's more strict than what I do for powerlifting, because really what I'm trying to get out of it's a little different. Not so much deadlift strength. Or transference to that. It's more just like back gains. I guess I could've picked, you know, something like a... I could've picked something like a Cedar Row or whatever and be more strict, but I just like lifting heavy weights, so... And, yeah, I put chalk on my hands first thing when I come in the gym, pretty much. And that's it. All right, first warm-up set, 135. So, I just set up like a deadlift, pretty much. A little bit wider grip, though, about thumbs width. Yeah, I'm just currently trying to eliminate any sort of like hip extension and then just control it. All right, let's go up. I can't decide if I should just keep the camera rolling and then like talk to you guys in between. I don't know. You'll have to let me know if you guys like this mic'd up thing. I can't tell. I know other people do it, but it's obviously different than our normal training vlogs, so... You'll have to let me know. I feel weird talking to myself, but... Anyway, second warm-up set. It was 135 and I was 225. Usually rest minimally. Slow the weights and go until I get to the work sets. So... All right. I'm gonna go up to 280. The idea is I use this. I'm gonna go up to 280. The idea is I use this. I'm gonna go up to 280. The idea is I use the same warm-ups each week and as long as they feel okay and not unnecessarily hard. Go up to the weight. 280. I'm gonna try to do the two sets of eight. RIR range is four to two, so RP six to eight. Let's go. Big Q here. Hips up high. Keep them still. Bring the bar all the way in your chest. Control it. Let's go Morgan Wallen. Let's go Morgan Wallen. Let's go Morgan Wallen. Hope I get better at counting one of these days. I think that's eight. Heh. You guys might be laughing. Roughly three minutes have elapsed. So do second set. Didn't love that first set. Felt like a little sloppy but see if we can improve it. Be a little more tight. Let's go. Let's go. Nah, I gave myself a B for that. Alright, let's move on. So incline dumbbell bench, because I do incline regular bench the other day. All the flat benches are taken though, so this is supposed to be my fourth exercise. We're going to make it the second, flip it, because it's a deload, and we're bodybuilding, so I guess it doesn't really matter. So we'll work up to a set of 12 to 15, same 4 to 2 RIR, so RP 6 to 8. We're sticking somewhere in the 100, 120 range. Start at 50s. Alright. Those were 50s. If I take another jump, do 80s for a set, and then see where we're at. Alright. Alright, so that felt pretty good. So I'll probably just go to 105s. That's what the difference. Two sets of 12 to 15 in about 3 minutes. Alright. 105s. 12 to 15. Hope I can count. Hope I'm strong. Still Morgan Waller. Still Morgan Waller. Morgan Wallen. Alright. I gave myself 8 out of 10. Dismount. I rated that like a 7. So 3 RIR. And then I'll do the same set again about 3 minutes. And try to get at least 12. Yeah. Well, I guess I'll let you guys hang out during a rest period. Otherwise it's just me lifting weights. Yeah, so the question is like why 12 to 15? I'm really just trying to make the weights as light as possible. Especially coming back from the shoulder thing. Which is feeling great pretty much right now. And also just the desire to work in that sort of... Still hypertrophy, but still like a strength endurance total rep range. For moto, general physical preparedness. Just not really interested in benching 500 right now. So yeah. You guys can also notice I'm trying to like bring the dumbbells all the way down to my chest. And pause for a split second. So no rebound. Yeah. And then why this angle is this? It's a high incline bench. Anything 45 degrees or above I call a high incline bench. Anything like 30 degrees or below low incline bench. Yeah. The higher you go, you're definitely going to move more focused towards the anterior delt. And maybe some of the upper pec. Lower you go, down to flat and decline. More pec, less shoulder. But the data is not super reliable there. And it's mostly on EMG which doesn't really correlate to muscle growth necessarily. So I don't really care what angle you do your benches at. And you shouldn't either. Outside of preferences and obviously objective outcomes depending on what you're looking for. So whether it's growth, strength, etc. Strength being specific. Growth being kind of something you have to measure over a longer period of time. All right. About another 30 seconds and we'll do this. Let's go. All right. Move on to the next one. Third exercise. Some pull downs. Check the rep range. Two sets of 6 to 10. Yeah. So, got 365 on there because I just always count as a 45. Whatever it is. People are like, how much does the leg press sled weigh? You know, it's like, oh, it's 45 probably. You just count the plates like you would a normal barbell. So, two sets, 6 to 10. Deload a week here. So, keep them strict. That's probably RPE 6.5, something like that. 7, maybe close to. So, 3 to 4 RIR. You can use that. You know, RPE is a proxy for reps and reserves. It's not always like that. Like for singles, they'll be different. But anyway, so we'll rest three minutes. Do it again. Yeah. So, you guys would like to let me know in the comments, do you like the mic'd up thing? What do you want me to do in between sets? Do you just want me to speed through the whole workout? You know, cut everything or hang out and talk to you guys? So, if you tweet at me or leave a comment on the video, maybe I'll pull up your questions and answer them in between. Yeah, do you have like talking though in the middle of the set? I don't know. I think you guys are going to hear some weird noises. So, this is the first time I've tried this mic'd up thing. I don't know. We'll see. Before anybody asks, I'm 5'10.5". I weigh 2.05 ish. Sometimes a little bit less, sometimes a little bit more depending on the day and what I ate the day before and sleep and whatever. So far, we're 40 minutes into this workout. Normally, workouts will take somewhere about 85 to 95 minutes. Yeah. I don't know what other questions people normally ask. I kind of forget. I got workout brain right now. I'll tell you, this bodybuilding thing is interesting. Like, you got to do the same like level of focus for powerlifting, like for each set to kind of make it count. Does that make sense? Like, powerlifting, you got to get psyched up to like execute, lift one rep heavily or, you know, instead of five or four, whatever, heavy and focus. Here, it's like you got to focus on execution, being strict in a way, you know, not 100% obviously, but, and then just bringing the effort. Still, you got to do a lot of volume. So it's hard to do that for all the sets all the time. But it's a different, it's just different experience. I don't know if I like it yet. I haven't really gained any weight. So I don't think I've gained that much muscle. I feel a little fuller, especially my calves. Now that I've actually done some calf races in my life. The first time ever doing them. So on a leg day, we'll take you through that. But yeah. All right. About another minute. We'll do this thing. I guess this D load workout is going to take right at like 60 minutes. Yeah. Normally, it's not a D load. Doing double the volume, maybe plus a little bit more. So start super setting stuff at the end. And then, but yeah, you know, the biggest problem is like setting up different exercise stations, warming up and getting set up and stuff. So cutting down the sets doesn't really save me a whole bunch of time. Cutting down the exercise would. But sometimes when you're planning exercises, planning a program, just taking consideration how many stations you need to have, how much set up, breakdown stuff, just adds time to your workout. All right. Second set. Six to ten. Now you can take this to two RIR or so. That's RP8. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. All right. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. All right. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. that. I'm using the Barbell Medicine app also, so you guys can use your own programs, get access to our templates. You get one free week if you want to check it out. So if you got an injury or something, you're like, oh, how do I train around a knee injury, low back pain, whatever. Knee template, low back pain template, whatever. Try it for a week, see if it's a good entry point for you. And yeah, it's available only for iPhones right now. It's like your Blue Bubble Gang that got out. But Android one's coming soon, and we'll make an announcement for beta testers and whatever. But all right, so start warming up on the flat press. Just do the barbell. All right. All right, so the Equestrian wide feed-up bench, again, just trying to lower the weight. That was after I got all the range of motion back and strength back after the rehab stuff. Just really didn't feel like benching heavy, right now. So. Little hamstring cramp there. Oops.edueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedueduedu Alright, pretty warm. So just do this for one, see what the weight should be and then do my two sets. Uh, 8-12, two sets. Same thing, 4-2 RIR, so let's go. Hopefully no hamstring cramps. Not confidence inspiring when the bench creeps while you're setting up. Oh boy. Alright. I'm gonna reset. RP-6, 4-RIR, do another 3 minutes, do another set. Drake says we gotta do at least 10. Hey, what's up? Hey, what's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? Oh man. It's that creep again. Again, not confidence inspiring. I wonder what these benches are rated to. I'm gonna say that was somewhere between 10 and 12. I lost count. Alright, getting into the end of the workout. My arm stuff now, triceps, press downs. So, today is regular press downs, overheads on the other day. Got two sets, 12 to 15. Pump the triceps up for the guys or something, whatever that is. Hey, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, Ah, that's probably a little light. Alright, we'll go up. So, now we're trying to bump the RPE up a little bit, so take it all the way to at least one, two to one RIR, so RPE eight to nine. A little difference, but isolation stuff, you just don't worry about, you know, outkicking your coverage, too much fatigue for incrementally more stimulus. Rest two minutes this time. Just because again, it's deload. Two sets, not gonna really make a difference here. Oh, it's three sets, that's right. Yeah, okay. Same thing, two minutes. Yeah, one thing is like you go to different gyms and they got different pulleys and leverage ratios and stuff like that. So, like how do you warm up, you know. I just like doing the same reps that are for the work sets all the way up, you know, add a little bit of weight. A lot of times I can predict it just based on how it feels on rep one or two, get pretty close. But I normally use the other, like a double pulley type set set up on the end of this particular apparatus. I don't normally use this one, so I just kind of guessed and I was a little off, so. Alright, we'll get better here on the second set. Alright, what do you predict the response is gonna be to a mic'd up workout? Mic'd up workout? I think it's really big right now. Is it a thing? Yeah, I've noticed, I mean, again, I'm not an influencer, so like. I purposely stay away from other Fitfluencer material. I'm like, we're, like I don't like most of this stuff. Like there's that one girl, I don't know if her name is . We'll bleep that out for the two. You know what I'm talking about, right? Yeah, yeah, alright. Like she was doing some with a couple of girls the other day. Oh, okay. I noticed that it's just been happening more, but I think like, I thought about it, I thought about it for me, but it would just be a bunch of like degenerative . Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of self angry . You know what I'm saying? Like, so like I'm breathing hard, so it's weird noises in between, right? So I don't know what it's going to sound like, but it's weird noises. Like while I'm doing stuff. And then it's like, alright, so you're watching my rest periods and I'm like talking about stuff. I have to get field questions from the YouTube comments. So you're looking for a post or what are you looking for? No, no. So I just posted on my YouTube, right? Oh, then long format, absolutely. So it'll be fine. Long format, I would, I think long format would be so much better because then you're actually requiring something other than just like a visual. Yeah, yeah. Like you're actually getting inside of what's going on, what's going on, and then your thoughts thoughts are tween. Alright. Your thoughts yourself would be valuable in the sense that you've been doing this for how long? Yeah, 15 years. Yeah. Alright, you heard it here. You heard it from Dakota. He said it's going to be a win. So we'll see what you guys say in the comments. What's your fault though? Unless it's just a weird ASMR thing. Cause in which case I don't think that my, my stuff is not ASMR. You gotta talk a little slower or a little deeper? Get into it. Breathe on the mic. Yeah, make it real breathy. Yeah, make it real breathy. Yeah. Let's go triceps. Come on. Two more. Come on. Oh God. Alright. Second to last exercise. I got this. Some curls. So, reverse delt fly. That's what I want. Just grab on the ropes. Straight elbows. Great elbows. Okay. Two more. Come on. Oh God. Alright. Moving on. Second to last exercise. I got this. Some curls. So, reverse delt fly. I like doing like this. Get a little more. You get a little more action on that upper back. That's what I want. Just grab on the ropes. Straight elbows. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Oh yeah. Last set of, it's supposed to be 6 to 10. So, see if we can get another 10 here. Let's go shoulders, come on. Straight arms, let's go. Oh, wicked triceps pump after that too. Three sets, 12 to 15. This might be a little light. Yeah. Alright, we'll go up and wait. Second set, 12 to 15. Again, trying to get to RP 8, 9-ish. Now that one might have been too heavy. Yeah. I don't really, obviously, use machines that much. I don't love them personally, but I've literally never done creature curls before, before this block. So, I'm just doing them as like a different type of biceps exercise that I've never really done. Most of them is usually just dumbbell or barbell curls. Usually only when my elbows will start hurting. So, just do something direct for them. But yeah, not a lot of biceps curls in powerlifting for me. Or really at any point during my development. So, this is just different. Still is different. And yeah. So, I'll probably actually go down and wait. And add one of these guys. Give it another minute or so. Get my third set. Last set. I kind of wish this thing went down further. Or maybe like that was like a handle. You could like unrack it and then let it go down further. I hope I'm not doing creature curls on my next block. I do not like them personally, but if you like them, they're great. I like the, you know, the ease of setup. Yeah, maybe there's a reason why I've never really done creature curls before. Alright. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Last set. Oh, yep. That's it. Alright, that's a wrap. Like, if you guys like this mic'd up thing, let me know in the comments below. Let me know what you want to see next time. Got questions, maybe I'll answer those. Or whatever, but yeah, this is an upper body workout here on the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. Make sure to like, subscribe, do all that fun stuff. Catch you next time.