 All right, training blog, and I'm pretty good on that one, yeah, I'm pretty good on that one, yeah, I'm pretty good on that one, now. Still another deload workout, this time lower body, I'm gonna take you guys through this one again, starting with deadlifts, here we go. So, yeah, just like the last video, first movement, this is the warmup, I literally walk into the gym, grab the barbell, and go. So, and then, and then, and the other people are the same, they're not just like the! So, if you like this, we've got an oversized hoodie, I think I got the shirt underneath, you'll see that here in a bit. And then we got some hoodies, and some shorts, uh, still a few flags left I think too, but, anyway, alright, enough self-promo, we'll get to lifting. You know what we need? Some country music, to drown out this nonsense. I usually don't pay attention to music in the gym, but, this stuff's exceptionally bad. Let's go, uh, let's go Luke Combs radio today. How about that? Good enough. All I'm just trying to do is just trace the bar down my legs, feel a good stretch in the hamstrings. Yeah, usually do like three or four sets. Add weight, and go. Alright, so, today's workout, yeah, deadlifts, leg press, leg extensions, leg curls, calves, and some ab workout. At the end, still deload, so, not too much volume of each. Shouldn't be too long of a video, we think. I'm just really thinking lats here. Alright, you're good enough. Time to add some weight. Alright, first set, 135. I'm not actually using straps, don't worry guys. Alright, we got two sets, four to six. Somewhere in that four to two RIR range. Uh, this is a deload week, so, nothing crazy. Thinking, 585 to 620, somewhere in there. Alright, so, you guys see this, the old rest periods. I'm gonna just load it, and go. I'm just trying to do plate jumps all the way up, probably. Um, question, why use straps? The biggest thing is, like, when doing multi-rep sets, especially on rubber platforms that are bouncy, like these are, just tears up my hands. So, I see no reason to do that, but if I was doing singles, I would not use straps, obviously. Or getting ready for a powerlifting meet in general. Um, usually use straps on higher rep sets, accessory work, stuff like that. Again, just to preserve my hands from getting torn up, which is really hard to lift without straps then if your hands are torn up. Yeah. Alright, cool. We'll go up. You guys ever grab a plate and you're like, that's definitely not 45 pounds. Yeah, I think that one was, uh, light, probably 42, 43, but I don't know how calibrated my hand scale is. For non-competitive powerlifting, even competitive powerlifting, honestly, it really doesn't matter. If it's close enough, that's alright. It's just like, you know, you'd prefer to use calibrated plates, uh, if you're really trying to dial in your numbers within, like, a few, you know, 1% or something like that. But, for general training, people are like, oh, but what if it's off 2 1⁄2 pounds? It's like, let me lift 2 1⁄2 pounds less or more. Who cares? Um, you know, really trying to, like, I don't know, send it every single session and going up 2 1⁄2 or 5 pounds, regardless of how you're feeling and how your performance is and how to scoop it anyway, so, um, yeah. The weight on the bar is just a tool, so. Alright, let's go. Yeah, it's fine. Alright, another plate. Alright, so, yeah. Just do plates, plates, plates all the way up, plate jumps, and then, uh, pretty much haven't taken any rest except for loading the weight. Now I'll take 2 minutes, pull this for 1, figure out what I'm going to do for my top set, and then top stats in this case, because, uh, yeah, 2 sets of 4-6, so 4-2 RIR, RP 6 to RP 8. Um, yeah, I'll probably wait to address the questions from the last vlog. Uh, really appreciate you guys doing that, by the way. Uh, useful. I'll probably just do it in a separate vlog, like a form check vlog or some other sort of, like, Q&A thing. Cause I just think my brain stops working when I'm training, and then, uh, yeah, I don't know. I don't want to make this a chore. I kind of like this, you know? Just, you know, just things I would be thinking about, rather than, uh, you know, just answering questions, and then it's like I'm working all the time. So, yeah, uh, hang out for another 90 seconds or so, pull this, and then go up 15, 585. 6? 585, 6? 585, 6? Something like that? Two sets, yeah. The Q I really like using now under those, particularly for me, cause I always got my hips too low, um, for a long time. Kicking the bar forward, bars forward are where it needs to be, it's off the legs, and, uh, you can keep it off the legs at the start, but then it'd be off the legs, like, just above the knee, it's making it less efficient. So, I'm thinking about getting my shoulders in front of the bar, and keeping them over the bar off the floor. So, hips a little higher, shoulders over the bar. Keep them over the bar off the floor. The whole idea of, like, keeping your hips low, you can't do that when you don't live anyway, so, just like a red flag, somebody's giving you form advice that you don't know what they're talking about. Um, not to directly call anybody out, just saying, like, it's not possible to lift heavy weights off the floor with your hips low, shoulders behind the bar, can't do it. So, I advocated for that, just to just don't really know what they're doing. So, yeah. For me, shoulders over the bar. Keep the bar close, uh, all the way up. And, uh, yeah. Put the old belt on. Just do it for my last warm-up set, so the work set doesn't feel too different. Yeah, it's fine. Well, let's go. Six. All right, let me load this, and I'll come back and hang out. So, just loaded. Six. Um, gonna rest, like, three minutes or so. I would talk, but I think I just wanna focus on this, so I'll come back. The only thing I'll say is that, uh, I've got a pretty cool new article coming out on belts and what they do. Like the science of, uh, lifting belts. I'll do a podcast on that too, but, yeah. I'm just gonna focus on this, and when the workout dies down to something that I care less about, we can maybe talk about deadlifts and whatever else I'm doing. Heart rate's seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. Seven. I'm going to play nine right now. Let's go. All right, not super great, but good enough. Do one more set. All right, so set the timer four minutes, do another set. Yeah, just not feeling super fresh today for whatever reason. I know it's a do load, I guess, and just kind of, well, who knows what the reason is. But yeah, this is the right load for today. And do another set, four or five reps, probably like RP8, and then move on. So yeah, I was originally supposed to do RDLs for this block, but for me RDLs get pretty heavy just like regular deadlifts, and I prefer regular deadlifts. And in the context of a powerlifting training program, I would just do both. Right? But since this was like my only heavy pull from the floor, I just prefer to do deadlifts. I don't know that they're great for hypertrophy. I don't know that RDLs are any better really. It's like a lot of fatigue and, yeah, some hypertrophy stimulus, but that's, that whole calculus really more applies, I think, to more advanced people, rather than people just starting. There's a lot of people who could, should probably spend a good chunk of time doing the compounds, heavy, heavier anyway, than worrying about what's optimal for hypertrophy. It's a pretty slow process anyway, so it's like, yeah, get strong too. And get strong in the compound lifts, and I think that's reasonable advice. I don't want to do it on a linear progression, just I think that model is not very sustainable long term and has its own, you know, problems. Should be auto-regulated, ideally, and should have a variance of rep ranges and exercises and the same thing. But it should probably still get strong too, even if you are just principally concerned with getting bigger and getting stronger in some big compound movements. Again, not really reinventing the wheel here. Alright, I'll shut my mouth so I can catch my breath and do this next set. Alright, we're doing leg press, second exercise, two sets, six to ten, four to two RIR. I use pretty much the same stance as my squat, maybe it's a little narrower. And then, yeah, a little narrower and less toe out. Just maybe focus on the quads a little bit more. It could all just be bro science, but yeah, that's what I'm trying to do. So, I'll form up. I go all the way down. Alright, warming up. Add some weight here. Looks good. Looks good. Looks good. I just, I just wish, I just wish they would turn down the music. I know it sounds like, like I'm shaking my fist at this guy, but I honestly do. I hate, I hate this music. And I don't dislike rap. I like a lot of rap music. Just not this rap music and it's like noise pollution to my ears. Plus, how are you guys going to hear what I'm saying? Nah, I'm just kidding. It's, whatever. It can be loud. I just really don't like it. Alright, two sets, six to ten. Yeah, big thing here for me is full depth. So, a little bit slower on the way down to make sure I go all the way down. And then, yeah, full lockout. People are like, don't extend your knees. Like, why quadriceps do that? So, definitely do that. Yeah. Let's send it. Let's send it. Let's send it. That doesn't sound good on. Alright, 675. Not so bad. Come back in about three minutes. Do the second set. Second set of leg press. Funny, you guys can probably hear this over the music, but like, it's definitely catching on the way up. It's not confidence inspiring. It's like the bench the other day that was like creaking. It's like whatever this thing's sliding on does not sound good, but. Alright, last set. Yeah, so big breath in, start, full depth, and then you can move it up as fast as possible all the way to lockout. going. One. Two. Four. oh oh that's it all right only nine but get it up all right hamstring curl i make sure the pads like just above my heels yeah that's good doing three sets of eight to twelve yeah so just really focus on dragging the heels to my butt and uh controlling the rep oh boy maybe a little aggressive six three more cool cool all right yeah so the like rp7 ish that's what we're looking at like uh three rir to one rir so rp7 to nine um yeah again you can just take isolation stuff a little bit closer to failure um without as much fatigue cost and even if you do get more fatigue it's just not that much um compared to like taking a compound lift uh failure so one thing when i'm thinking about like fatigue costs of different exercises i'm thinking about total muscle mass being used the load being used uh range of motion being used um just from like a biological standpoint psychologically like previous history uh plays a big part like if people are really anxious nervous or whatever about a exercise type it's gonna cost more than if somebody either has no experience with it or positive uh previous experience so like somebody coming back from an injury like a knee injury and they're doing like single leg work they might be pretty keyed up about that social social influences so like you go to a different gym and it's all you know hyped up chalk dust flying everywhere metal ammonia it's gonna cost a little bit more uh and then same thing with like people priming you so you can have positive or negative expectations based on people priming you like oh that looks really heavy or oh this workout's gonna be real tough it's like a group workout thing so just something to consider when you're trying to compare go for it man all right a little crowded in here so miss the second set this will be last set try to get 10. two three four heels to the butt come on all good needed that break anyway oh all right second to last exercise yeah well got calf raises and ebb stuff after this so oh you're good i just start oh okay somebody's probably hip thrusting with it odds are in here yeah uh just to let everybody know hip thrusts are fine there's just nothing really special about them and it's a good lift to do in addition to your deadlifts or deadlift variations or squats and squats variations but like only hip thrusts i don't know all right three sets eight to twelve just focusing on really pushing from here actually like like pulling my legs up i know anatomically it doesn't make any sense but that's what i'm thinking about yeah yeah that probably wasn't heavy enough let's do two more sets eight to twelve anyway to go back to hip thrusts thing i think people see them on social media right like people are doing them and again they're fine it's just like if you're saying oh they more glute hypertrophy than squats or deadlifts i don't think i would say that there's been some issues on the way they've been studied and! and again why not both um i feel like i see people doing a ton of hip thrusts and not enough squatting and deadlifting particularly with the same sort of enthusiasm people will load up hip thrusts with very heavy weight and i'm which i'm pro doing that like yeah go heavy enough to meet the proximity to failure that your program sort of calls for at the end that particular rep scheme but you got to do that across the board do it for squats do it for deadlifts and it's like if you can hip thrust 500 pounds 600 pounds 700 pounds but you can't squat you know over 300 pounds like suggest the training of your squat could maybe use some prioritization if you're interested in being strong it's just about hip thrusts and bunch of weight like ignore all that but um yeah i think people uh who don't do any hip thrust at all should probably do those uh in their program once in a while uh so i don't think i'm hating on hip thrusts i just think doing that to the exclusion of squats and deadlifts or variations thereof just like doing squats and deadlifts to the exclusion of doing any hip thrust ever in your program it's kind of like unilateral training like do a little bit you know the seasoning if you're an sbd person or interested in that but a lot of weird stuff going on in the gym right now all right second step eight to twelve go go gadget quads so okay all right three minutes i'm doing next set uh last set leg extensions let's go at least 10. might feel overzealous but let's go quads okay oh that's it oh boy that sucked real bad all right second to last exercise standing calf raises i don't love these things just trying to pause the bottom for a few seconds feel a stretch and uh yeah the weight's really light for how much weight i could like lift but just trying to feel it if that makes sense but anyway i didn't have any calves before this and now i have some calves so that's good um um Give it two minutes. Do another set. Alright, second set here in this cacophony of noise and weird stuff. Tryna pause in both positions. Oh yeah, that's a pretty good pump. Oh, yeah. I got calves now, so that's good. Yeah, I never really did calf stuff. If it was programmed, I would have done it, but it just wasn't in there. I think in hindsight, yeah, I would have done a few things differently. I would have moved on from non-auto-regulated training much earlier on. I didn't really get any stronger after my first year of training. For another three years, just running non-auto-regulated stuff, very specific stuff. And yeah, I mean, knowing what I know now, things would have gone differently. But it was a useful process to learn. And at the time, there was just way less information. Now is like a deluge, an overload of information. It's really hard to parse through what's good and what's not. So, as you guys are probably well aware of. But yeah, I would have done more calf work in my developmental stuff. Not a lot, but just some. Never did it. Same thing with curls and tricep work. And I did tricep stuff as I got more into powerlifting because that's highly recommended. And yeah, so I definitely was doing that. But no bicep stuff unless, like I said, my elbows hurt. No calf stuff. No unilateral stuff until much later on. So I would have done that earlier on and used that to build this big base of physical development and then apply that specifically later on. So yeah, some regrets about that. But better for me to go through it and, you know, be able to prevent you from making the same mistakes. So, all right, in the comment section, this is great. Austin and I argue about this all the time. Learning curve, right? My view is that you want a really steep learning curve. Because then when you go through it, you're learning more faster. His thing is the steep learning curve is bad. But, I don't know, maybe the energy to overcome that or the knowledge that you need to attain to move forward on the curve. Maybe that's what he's referring to. I don't know. Let me know what you think about this learning curve thing. Which way do you view it in the comments? All right, last set. Yeah, let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Alright, last exercise, we're going to do some hip extensions. Some people call these back extensions, but you really have to like round, flex the back and extend it. This is more of a hip extension. Back extensions you can do by rounding over each segment and then extending each segment. Usually we'll do it on a GHD or something like that. But yeah, so this is just going to be hip extensions, do a couple sets, get a stick pump, call it a day. We'll exit this video with a request of like, subscribe, comment, do the whole thing. And it's me doing hip extensions. Glad to see these prisoner style come up, try to squeeze my butt, get all the way to extension, feel my chest to open up. So yeah, there's some obviously spinal flexion and extension. This is mostly hip flexion, hip extension. Big squeeze at the top. Yeah, there we go. Getting a pump. Low back and glutes. Mostly glutes, but... Good. Alright, yeah. Like, subscribe, comment, do the whole thing. Training vlog 43. I kind of like this because I get to do it while I'm training. So not a big time suck. But yeah, if it becomes a burden, we'll do something else. Anyway, thanks for tuning in. See you guys next time. Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr Pr