 ender Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Lind Let's see, we're starting off with Baraki. I believe this is 600 for a single. Notice, again, a little bit, this was much better than his 620. Now it was a little lighter, but apparently he did that when people were lunging into his line of sight, which is an interesting thing. Here is 610, I believe, that's what it looks like, for a set of three. And let's go back and watch this again. So he's using straps because his hands were beat up and that's fine, you know. And if we, I'm gonna go frame by frame, and that's how I actually analyze this stuff. Watch the logos on the plates. No movement on that second rep, so that's straight up his legs. A little movement on the third rep. And let's watch it one more time. So this is the third play through here. We'll watch it from the first rep. Just watch the logos on the plates. A little push forward on the first one. The second one is super, super straight. You don't see any movement. And then the third one, you do see that. If you wanted to quibble something on the second one, you'd see a bar, it looks like it comes a little off his legs. But in any event, 610 for triple, very stout. All right, now back into me. Now this is only 405, so this is a warmup set. So the prescription was six at six, six at seven, six at eight. Three more sets of six at eight. So this is only 405. Still getting my bearings back here with the low bar squats that I've been doing other squats for a while. Uh, these are actually fine. Um, you know, I don't like, I would prefer to keep my head a little more still during this, but overall I'm okay with this. Elbows look to be a little bit better. No problem here. Now I look at the feet. Look okay to me. Depth looks fine. Racket is 405. No one cares. This is 425. So I just went up a little bit. Uh, the idea is to go up like 5% for each, uh, uh, single RPE increase if the rep range is the same. So this is 425. That one was borderline, but I'm, I think it's to depth. That one was fine. Depth wise. Yeah. Back angle. Hip drive looks good. Notice the hips are going straight up and not backwards. That's one thing we see all the time with people who end up good morning their squats. Their hips end up shooting back out of the bottom. That one was a touch backwards. So I cue those people. Just keep your knees forward out of the bottom. That one, eh, lifted my chest. Also may not have counted to six. Uh, no one needs to see that again. So this is 445. I see my camera trying to fight focus, uh, due to my friend Katie in the foreground, but she has a Barbell Medicine shirt on. So I can't really, uh, can't really talk too much trash. So I ended up doing four sets of six here at 445. Let's see what we can find out here. So, looks pretty good. Yeah, I would like to keep my head still, more still there, but... Depth is good. Elbows are staying straight. Nice hip drive straight up. That one, maybe a touch backwards. Good depth. Yeah, it's all good there. Again, I may not be able to count to six. Uh, okay, so now I'm doing presses. This is supposed to be press with belt, but, uh, I forgot to put my belt on this first set. So this is 215 for six. Um, only thing I'd say here is I'd, well, that one was forward. Notice the difficulty in lockout. But I'm doing the classic press here. If you guys haven't seen the article, I'll link it in the description below about how you end up getting a really good hip drive. I think that's better than the way it's taught the, uh, starting strength. Although I would, I would also say that this is a style of the Olympic press. And now I put my belt on. Notice just how much better this ends up looking. And I don't know why, other than the fact that my Valsalva is a little better. And, uh, that one, you can see my toes came up. So one thing you have to watch for with the classic press is the toes coming up. And I think that a wider stance tends to mitigate that. Uh, okay. So we'll move on here to this third set. Believe we're still pressing. Another 215. So I did four sets of sticks here as well. Yeah. The only thing I would do here is make sure that I'm actually locking out the presses. I don't know why I'm getting so excited here, but you know, each one's from a dead stop and I prefer those rather than a touch and go press, which I program sometimes for a variation. And now you get a 4k view of Keeley. Thanks. Autofocus. Uh, and the third movement of the day was close grip bench press. Now for close grip, I pick the, I grab the bar right at the start of the knurling. So it's about 16 and a half inches. I do 275. I'm doing sets of 12. This is fine. I think, yeah, I would probably yell at myself about this lockout. So I would like to lock it out every time just like that. But, uh, you know, on a close grip bench, your elbows are going to be more tucked than on a regular or wide grip bench press. And you're going to touch a little lower. We wrote or talked about that in the bench press video. So you haven't checked that out. I'll link that in the description below. So in any event, that's training from this past Monday. Hope you guys liked it. Uh, make sure to subscribe to our YouTube channel. And if you're not checking us out on Instagram TV, you should do that. And thanks for watching. See you guys soon. Bye. Bye.