ненене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Cue the mystery music. This is a real study, a real report of a real patient that was published in the medical literature. And what I'm going to do is deliver the details of this case piecemeal to Dr. Austin Baraki, who's on the other end of the line. And we're going to see if he comes up with the correct diagnosis. Now, I'll also be giving you guys prompts to pause the podcast if you want to play along at home, if you're a medical student, if you're a physician or otherwise just, you know, stay at a Holiday Inn Express. Whatever you want to do, see if you can come up with the correct diagnosis as well. Dr. Baraki, what's going on, man? Hey, doing all right. As usual, just my normal alternating life between hospital and non-hospital things. And so right now I finished rounds this morning, did some teaching in the hospital with my residents and now ready to do this right before I do some training this afternoon. Would you prefer more hospital stuff or less hospital stuff? I guess there's a third option where like the amount of hospital things that you're doing is adequate and you would prefer no change. So you get to get the options. Yeah. I think in my current position at this point, I'm at a point where I would say like adequate to slightly less would be acceptable to me. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, that's fair. Yeah. I am also at a point where I have adequate amount of exposure. Exposure. Yes. Yeah. To potentially less would be fine. Because that means that everybody I know and care about and love is healthy and otherwise not interfacing with the medical system. So a few announcements before we get into this medical mystery case. First off, we just released a new template, second generation bodybuilding one. So the previous first generation was four day only, which did not suit a lot of people's schedules. So I made it a three day and four day. Updated the programming based on feedback and some kind of digging that I've done with data collection we've done in the app to see how people were doing. So updated the resistance training programming. I updated the conditioning programming pretty significantly on both fronts. Also expanded the text that comes with the template, particularly talking about training splits, incorporation of supersets. You wanted to use those to cut down on time and obviously conditioning as well. So if you're looking to put on some muscular size, that's your main priority. Or if you want like an offseason program, if you are a competitive strength athlete, this would be a good template for you. So you can check that out. It's linked in the description below. Or you can go to our app or on our website and poke around on there. Also, again, we do have our program library. If you were a subscriber to our program library, you get our entire cadre, all of our training programs for one low monthly price, $12.99 per month. And now you have access to this newest template. So that's also linked in the description below if that's something that you're interested in. Recently published a new article on collagen protein, which I recommend sending to people you don't like. Mainly because like, you know, if you don't want to read the article, I'll just cut. I'll just cut to the chase. Collagen protein is not a good source of dietary protein. Or much else. That's what I'm saying, right? So like it's like if if you are a collagen protein enthusiast, you like collagen protein. My question to you is, are you you mean to tell me that the amino acids that make up collagen protein, which are the same amino acids pretty much of any other protein source, although it is missing at least one of them, tryptophan. Again, you mean to tell me that these amino acids are smart. They're intelligent. They know exactly where to go and what to do. If so, that's I'll have where you're having. I'll smoke what you're smoking. Let's let's go. In any case. Yeah. So if you've ever wondered about collagen protein, whether or not it really works to reduce joint pain, to improve skin, certain skin parameters. Well, we're going to we dig into that with a bunch of citations listed as well. If you want to go on to some of the primary literature. Also, again, we do have our testosterone course that Dr. Austin Baraki spearheaded. So if you want to learn everything there is to know about testosterone, at least as far as how it applies to training, health, maybe what do if you're considering maybe managing some low testosterone or what we call testosterone deficiency. We have a course available for you. That's linked in the description below. And if you're not interested in a course, but you're more interested in like a low testosterone or testosterone, quote, optimization action plan, which we actually hate that that phrasing. But if you were interested in that, that's available for you for free. You just go over to the article on low testosterone that we have on our website and you can get that action plan delivered to your email. And if you've ever wanted a Barbell Medicine coach to weigh in on your technique, your exercise technique, you can now do that for free. So head over to our website, barbellmedicine.com, click the shop tab and then scroll down and click form check and we'll take care of the rest. Last but not least, I am doing a nutrition webinar. So for those of you who don't know what a webinar is, because I feel like that's almost like a millennial term, like an elder millennial term. Yeah, it's like a it's like if you said facsimile to it. You're like, do they know what that is? Nonsensical term. That's right. I'm hosting that next. It'll be Monday, June 9th. I believe it's at noon or 1 p.m. Pacific Standard Time, something like that. And it's I think it's $13 U.S. to to attend. And so a bunch of people are going to be there. I'm going to answer some questions, do a Q&A should be should be pretty fun. And if you've ever wanted to know what I know about nutrition, here you go. You can sign up for that link is in the description below. All right. This is my particular favorite part of the mystery case series. Is Dr. Austin Baraki going to correctly get the diagnosis? And I'm sad to disappoint everybody. The answer is yes. He's going to get it. I have full faith in your anatomy recollection and your ability to deduce based on clinical presentation what's going on. Oh, anatomy. OK, well, he opens netters. Do you remember before we get in? Do you remember what atlas, what anatomy atlas you used in medical school? Were you a netters person or a graze person or like a? I remember the textbook cover was gray and blue, but I don't remember who the author was. Yeah, you were a graze, a graze person. There you go. I remember when I went to EVMS, that's where we both went to medical school, that they recommended graze. And I was like, come on, guys. Now, and to be fair, like I don't I don't I'm not getting paid anything by like anatomy text publishers or whatever. The problem with the atlases, which I actually don't. Is there a different plural of the word atlas? Is there like no idea? Just atlas. Anyway, the problem is just pictures. Right. So if you're not involved in a course that has like a syllabus and a bunch of written stuff, you're just looking at pictures, which can be useful for like ascertaining relationships and such. But if you're not taking a formal course paired with those, the atlas itself is like not that useful because you're just like looking at photos and like, I guess this is fine. So I actually liked Moore's clinical anatomy much more because not only was there text associated with it, but there was a lot of like clinical pearls because I mean, before I went to medical school, I actually got a master's in anatomy and it was super interesting from like structure, function, relationship. You know, I got to teach anatomy. So all that was useful. But as far as like clinical pearls that you would actually see in clinical practice, not terribly useful. You know, the anatomy, my anatomy was good. But like, how does that translate to actual clinical care? The Moore's clinical anatomy, that was my recommendation. Somebody out there who's like, you know, an orthopedist or something might say, oh, you got to get this particular, you know, sports medicine or orthopedic, you know, anatomy resource. I'm like, that's fair. But I think if you're a medical student, medical student adjacent, Moore's clinical anatomy is my recommendation. I don't have a discount code. I'm sorry. I can't hook you up. Yeah, I would just trust your judgment on that. Anatomy was fine, but not my favorite. You like physiology. Yeah, that explains my specialty choice. As an internist and non-surgeon, his physiology pathophys is way cooler in my opinion. But anyway. All right. Moving on. So, yeah, you're going to get this. Are you ready? You ready to start the case? Let's go. All right. Here we go. 38-year-old, previously healthy man presents to the emergency department via EMS due to an acute onset of severe head pain, dizziness, and vomiting while playing golf. Prior to the presentation, the man had been playing golf without issue. On the 18th hole, after hitting his drive, he reports a sudden onset of dizziness and loss of balance. At this time, he said he noticed a severe head pain. It's predominantly located in the back of his head and the base of his neck. He subsequently vomited several times. He was unable to stand without bracing himself on the cart, which prompted his playing partners to call 911, where he was transported immediately to the hospital. Now, his past medical history is significant for a number of neck injuries sustained during college football and wrestling. One of these injuries was diagnosed as a subluxation, which is basically just a loss of normal position of both his C5 and C6 vertebra, which did not require surgery. He was also hit by a car later that year, sustaining a laceration to his skull, but no spine injuries. The patient denies taking any medications, any supplements, or using any illicit substances. But this particular case report had lots and lots of golf-related info. So, for example, he said that the patient considered himself a novice golfer, where he would take on average 95 to 100 shots for a round of 18 holes, which, if you're not a golfer, that's not bad. It's not good, also, but if it's true. To be clear, though, if it's a true, like, oh, I break 100, but it's like shoot under 100. If you truly shoot under 100, that's not bad. Most people lie about what they shoot on the golf course. Like, and I actually have a hat. It's my favorite hat to wear when I golf. It says no one cares what you shot, which is true. This is pretty true. This is analogous to people saying, you know, like, when they're asked, like, how much they lift, they just embellish, right? They're like, ah, about 315. And then you load 315 on the bar, and it staples them. And you're like, okay, well, you don't lift that. So, in any case, not great, but not good. But he's an avid golfer. He's been playing for 10 years. They talk about his setup when he goes to hit a drive. This is an exceptional level of detail. I suspect because when they publish these case reports, it is possible that despite golf being one of the top 10 most widely played sports in the entire world, I think it was number 10 last time I checked this, that some people may be unfamiliar with, like, what golf is. And they're like, he stands, you know, with the ball, you know, equidistant from his front and trail leg with his arms fully extended and his lumbar spine at a 20-degree angle relative to, like, all this sort of stuff. They name his driver. They tell you the brand name of his driver. He was playing a tailor-made. They said the material of the driver, which was titanium. And then he said the patient reports trying to swing, quote, as hard as I can when he hits the golf ball, which... Hell, yeah. Hell, yeah. In any case, back to the medicine. Yeah. The patient is currently endorsing nausea, dizziness, and head pain that he rates between 8 to 9 out of 10, predominantly located in the back of his head and his neck area. So if you wanted to play along at home, this would be a time where you would pause and you would summarize the patient and maybe give a differential diagnosis, just a list of things you think possibly could be. And if you want a gold star, extra credit, perhaps, you would also think about, well, what would I do next or want to know next to help narrow down my list of potential diagnoses? Okay, now that you've paused it, I'm going to turn it over to Dr. Austin Baraki. What's up with this patient? Yeah, this is an interesting and very concerning presentation. So I'd summarize I'm 38-year-old without a ton of other medical history aside from some multiple traumatic neck injuries, let's say. Coming in with acute, severe occipital headache associated with dizziness, vomiting, inability to stand while he was hitting golf balls as hard as he could. That would be my summary of this. And so there are a lot of different ways that you could approach this. If I were teaching an approach to this case, you could pick any of these symptoms and work through. What's the general differential diagnosis for headache or for dizziness or for vomiting or for inability to stand? And so I won't go through that exercise for each of those individual symptoms. But in general, when we've done this kind of thing before where patients have multiple simultaneous symptoms, we tend to pick the one with what we call the greatest specificity or the thing that localizes us the most. And so vomiting, for example, is something that can come from so many different causes. It can happen from gastrointestinal conditions. It can come from cardiac issues. It can come from neurologic issues. It can come from just like medicines. It can happen when patients are anxious. It can happen from withdrawal, all sorts of things. And so vomiting can come from so many different places that it's not where I'm going to focus my immediate attention. Whereas this patient seems to describe a couple of things that really localize me to their head and neck. Obviously, the pain that is described as being very specifically sudden onset, severe and in the back of the head. And it's associated with other things that fall into that neurological central nervous system, head and neck type realm to include dizziness as well as his inability to stand. So when we think about headaches in general, by and large, most people who have headaches, they're benign, right? A primary headache like a tension headache or a migraine or something like that. But once you have that type of headache syndrome associated with other what we'll call kind of red flag type symptoms, that changes your framework for this, your differential, what we call to secondary headaches, headaches that are coming from the head and neck from some sort of structural abnormality or physiologic abnormality that's going on. So this includes, you know, new onset headaches that are either what we'll call super sudden onset. The term thunderclap headache kind of comes to mind when we see when we hear about this patient story. But there are other non-thunderclap or non-super sudden onset headaches that can also be concerning. So patients who have headaches and fevers, if they have a weakened immune system, if they have a history of cancer, kind of like when we talk about red flags with back pain, many of the similar types of concerns will arise if the patient presents with a headache and many of those things. Now, again, in this situation, we have what we're going to call a thunderclap headache, just abrupt onset severe headache. And even more concerningly, it's associated with these other neurological symptoms. So the way I think about abrupt onset symptoms, this is something we've gone over actually several times. Anytime something comes on suddenly, I think about did something rupture like a blood vessel? Did something spasm also like a blood vessel? Is there a vessel that's obstructed, blocked by a clot? Is it dissected? Is there some other form of leakage or some sort of sudden onset problem? And by and large, the vast majority of things that happen suddenly relate to vascular problems. Also, in the brain and in the heart, you can have electrical problems that happen suddenly. But this does not fit kind of an electrical phenomenon. And then obviously, like orthopedic things, fractures and tears and things like that can also occur suddenly. So I'm most concerned for some sort of a sudden onset process in this patient's head and most likely where they're pointing as their pain is in the back of their neck. That can also lead to some of these neurological symptoms. So I'm concerned about a vascular problem, sudden onset in the back of the neck. For example, something like a vertebral artery dissection is a relatively common thing. And we see it in patients with certain types of traumatic injuries. We see it in association. I'm going to stir up some controversy here in patients who undergo chiropractic or neck manipulation, as well as in patients who are doing things like what this patient did. So I'm wondering, was he swinging as hard as he can? He's doing aggressive, violent, twisting motion with his prior history of traumatic neck injuries. You know, I can envision a scenario where he has some orthopedic abnormalities, some osteophytes, various other things going on in his neck and predisposed him to develop some sort of vertebral artery dissection. I'm not 100 percent anchoring on that as my final diagnosis just yet. Obviously, we would need a CT angiogram of his head and neck, which will be one of the first things that happens when this patient rolls into the ER. But that would be where I would start with this patient. Yeah, no, that's very good. And I always thought that, you know, despite your misgivings about anatomy, that it's not your favorite. It was just OK. Yeah. I thought neuroanatomy in particular was absolutely fascinating, particularly from like a Sherlock Holmes type of standpoint. Yeah. Because localizing the lesion is super fun. I remember my very first neuroanatomy exam during my master's program. The like end the final boss. Right. You go through all of the multiple choice questions. The end was like a free response kind of thing. And this dude, apparently you didn't know like what what happened to him. You just had the constellation of symptoms. You say, oh, here's where the lesion is. Right. Yeah. And then you figure how to figure out, like, how could this possibly have happened? Turns out the dude took like a an ice pick to the middle of his head. So you had that's why he had symptoms on both sides. And you realize a lot of people are like, well, how is that possible? Yeah. Usually it's one sided. Anyway. Cool. Neuroanatomy is cool. I agree. If you like neuroanatomy, you're cool. That's that's all right. You are correct that if this person walked into or was delivered to an emergency room anywhere in the United States, probably anywhere in the world, they'd be shipped off for imaging immediately. But suspend your disbelief. Sure. And say that you went and saw the patient prior to this. Totally. There's a backup. So the patient does appear uncomfortable sitting in the bed. But he's alert and oriented. He's able to give a history. He's a large dude. He's five eleven to thirty five jacked. He played college football as a wrestler. It's basically Spencer Nadolsky, although I think Spencer's taller than five eleven. Yeah. His head exam is atraumatic. That's good. He has no tenderness to palpation anywhere, particularly where he says that he has pain, but it's not tender on palpation. His heart exam, lung exam, both stone cold normal. His neurological exam is significant for a number of things. First off, you notice that his eyes have this low frequency oscillation where they drift slowly away to the left and then rapidly back to the right. He's pretty much unable to stand due to dizziness. But once standing and you tried to get him to walk with some spotters nearby, his gait was wildly uncoordinated. He would fall almost immediately towards the right. However, other than that, when he's sitting in the bed, his motor exam for his upper and lower extremities are pretty normal. Normal reflexes, both the upper and lower extremities. No labs are currently available because you're like, this guy's got to go off to imaging. So before we go any further, and if you're playing along at home, this would be another time to stop. Maybe re-summarize the patient and refine your differential diagnosis. What do you think about this patient, Dr. Baraki? Yeah, our 38-year-old with that prior neck injury history with thunderclap headache, dizziness, vomiting, inability to stand. And on his neurological exam, what you were describing is a phenomenon known as nystagmus, where he has the slow phase to the left and rapid shifting of his eyes off to the right. And basically, we are observing lesions or the results of lesions in this patient's central nervous system in his brain. And most concerningly, not only with the location of his pain, but also the areas of the brain that kind of control the types of functions that are broken in him, like his ability to coordinate, like the kind of position of your eyes, things like that, and symptoms of dizziness are what we call the posterior circulation or in the back of the brain, the blood vessels that feed the back of the brain and the brain stem, which is where a lot of critical stuff kind of functions, including your, like I said, your cerebellum and brain stem, which are fed by these blood vessels in the back of the brain, including the vertebral arteries and a bunch of branches off of those. And so, you know, if it's interesting how, you know, a patient could have these types of symptoms, but if they said, I've had these symptoms, they've been kind of gradually worsening over the course of like months, that would put us in one particular bucket of the types of conditions that can develop and progress at that kind of slow rate, like a tumor, for example, growing over time. Or if it happened over the course of a few weeks, you would think about certain other types of conditions, or if it was a few days. But here we're in this situation where he was fine, and then just abrupt, sudden onset. And so, again, I'll return to the leading concern in a patient like this is some sort of vascular problem. So sudden onset neurology in general, you're worried about stroke, stroke, stroke, stroke, stroke, versus seizure, versus something else when something shows up this suddenly. And strokes can be due to lack of blood flow. They can be due to blood clots. They can be due to bleeding into the brain. And so that's why this patient needs immediate brain imaging. They would go for a CT scan of their brain, CT angiogram of their head and neck, ideally, you know, within the first hour that they show up, if not much faster than that, depending on the resources of the center. And so it appears you have sent me a representative image of this patient's brain. And half of their cerebellum appears to be very unhappy. And so I am, in fact, concerned that this patient has had essentially a relatively large stroke in the back of their brain, which when we think about strokes in the brain, that often relates to a lack of blood flow for some reason, whether it's due to a clot that developed in the blood vessels or was sent into those blood vessels or if the vessels, again, spasmed, dissected, all sorts of problems. So our suspicion continues to rise higher and higher for a vascular problem in this patient's head and neck. Yeah, this patient was whisked off to the radiology department. He had a head CT and an MRI. Both performed, showed this hypodensity in the right posterior fossa. And so if you're watching this on YouTube, you'll see the image on the screen right now. You're looking up, basically, at the patient from the underneath side, and you see that white, almost homogenous area. Not supposed to look like that. Yeah. Not supposed to look like that. That's one of the areas of the cerebellum. So you were correct so far. Now, the question is, I can't give you any more information because you're at a limited academic center right now. For whatever reason, you can't get any more information, and you have to make a diagnosis now based on the information I provided. What's going on with this patient? I think my best guess continues to be what I described earlier. So, you know, this patient has this prior neck history, and he had this aggressive rapid twisting motion, which is, again, a setup for patients developing something like a vertebral artery dissection. You know, in a much older patient who didn't have this traumatic history coming in with this kind of thing, you might think, okay, maybe they had an atherosclerotic plaque rupture leading to an ischemic stroke. If the stroke was in a different area as well, you might say, okay, maybe they have atrial fibrillation and they sent a clot up into their brain or something else like that. This guy is relatively young. We don't have a history of a ton of, you know, cardiovascular disease or risk factors for that kind of thing, as well as even more. I mean, the differential diagnosis for what we'll call, quote, unquote, stroke in the young is actually quite lengthy and detailed. But here, again, just the rapid twisting, hitting the golf ball as hard as I could continues to pull me back towards a dissection as the most likely thing that I'm suspicious of here. Yeah. So he was transferred to a tertiary care center where an angiogram was performed, showed a thrombus in the right vertebral artery beginning at the level of cervical vertebra number six, C6. He started on IV heparin, which is an anticoagulant, and then that was followed by oral anticoagulation. After two weeks, his neuro exam was back to normal. He was asymptomatic, and the oral anticoagulants were discontinued at the time. So I'm going to give it to you. You said vertebral artery dissection on your very first differential diagnosis, and you kept saying that, and everything points towards vertebral artery dissection. Yeah. It fits. This case screams that. And I think the recognition of this pattern just comes from having seen a fair amount of this over the years, although not necessarily from swinging a very particular titanium golf club. As was described in this case. Do we call this a golfer stroke? Oh, I see what you did there. Yeah, not bad. All right. So I wanted to talk about vertebral artery dissection, and we've talked about dissection a number of times on these medical mystery cases as well as some of our cardiovascular-related content. But just as a reminder, a dissection is a tear or a separation in the layers of the blood vessel wall. You have multiple layers in the blood vessel. The inner layer is called the intima. And so if that layer tears or separates from the next layer, the muscular layer, for example, you can get blood between those two layers. And you can even get an outpouching where blood is just collected. It's not flowing how it should, however. And so effectively, you have this false lumen, the space filled with blood. And because that blood's there and not going to where it should, bad things can happen. So in a vertebral artery dissection like this patient had, this is a common cause of stroke in young adults. The mean age is 44 to 53, which is relatively young compared to something like an embolism or like something related to atherosclerotic plaque, for example. The epidemiology suggests that there's about one per 100,000 individuals per year, although the actual incidence is likely higher since many cases have minor or no clinical signs. It is possible to have one of these and not really know, like, what's going on. But if it's severe enough, it is highly likely that you're going to know. The anatomy, as an anatomist, is very interesting to me. It is possible to have dissection in other arteries supplying structures of the cranial vault in the head. But the vertebral artery itself is pretty interesting. It pops off the subclavian artery that's down in your chest, and it ascends through holes. It goes up through holes in your cervical vertebra, C6, all the way up through C2, these little holes called transverse foramina. And then it bends around the atlas, which is the first cervical vertebra, before entering the big hole in the bottom of the skull. We call that the foramen magnum. Now, the vertebral artery supplies blood to the brainstem. And, in fact, both vertebral arteries come together to form the basilar artery. It sits on part of your, you know, the brainstem structures and supplies blood, again, to the brainstem, to the cerebellum, and posterior aspects of the brain, just as you mentioned, the posterior circulation. It is pretty vulnerable as it enters the base of the skull, particularly as it bends around C1. It's just kind of exposed, hanging out there. So, yeah, some vulnerability there. If there is a vertebral artery dissection, the most common complaints are head and neck pain. Again, it's acute onset. It doesn't tend to, like, smolder for a while and then get worse. It's pretty severe all of a sudden. It's usually on the same side as a person is having symptoms. So, if you are an astute listener, you notice that this patient was falling to the right. For example, his nystagmus, the FAST component, was to the right, which indicates the side of the lesion, which is, I think, pretty interesting as an anatomy nerd. As far as other symptoms, yeah, depending on how large the defect is, how much blood is not flowing in the correct direction, how much blood is missing that would otherwise be there, and the mismatched demands versus supply, you can get all sorts of other symptoms. So, this patient had difficulties walking, standing, the coordination. The coordination problems pretty much just point right to the cerebellum. You're like, ooh, cerebellum's pickled. And then some other signs related to the brainstem, where he's also missing some blood flow. The risk factors for vertebral artery dissection are also interesting. Obviously, trauma is one. Can be minor in some cases, but obviously major trauma would be on the top of the list for risk factors. Connective tissue disorders are another problem. So, things like Marfan's, fibromuscular dysplasia, which is actually the most common connective tissue disorder that presents with this, but also like Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and other stuff. You can also have anatomical issues. So, if you had like a bone spur on the cervical spine, which this patient may or may not have had, they didn't report that. You could have an elongated styloid process. That's a little bony thing coming off of the temporal bone. And if that's super long, that can actually like rub against or even sometimes puncture the vertebral artery. Bad luck. Bad luck, indeed. And also, yeah, chiropractic neck adjustment. Although, if you go to the UpToDate article on this, they just hand-waved this away. And I think they just didn't want to deal with any sort of like emails related to this. They're like, causality is difficult to establish. And they're like, yeah, we're just not going to like wade into those waters. Yeah. Yeah. I'm somewhat reluctant to do the same. A lot of the debate around this, you know, some of the pushback I've seen, for example, from chiropractors on this or those who perform this type of neck manipulation, they'll say, well, the patient, you know, came in with neck pain and we performed the manipulation to treat it. And so the neck pain that they came in with was actually the, you know, the dissection that they had before we manipulated them. And I'm like, that may or may not be true, but that doesn't make it better because they're having a dissection and you're managing it with manipulation, right? Even if you didn't cause it, perhaps you might have, you know, thought about recognizing that maybe this patient's having that, which I know, you know, if they're having frank neurological symptoms, many of them will recognize, oh, if this patient is having, you know, vertigo, ataxia, whatever, I'll send them to an ER. But if it's a more subtle one, you know, I don't know how you differentiate whether somebody's having a vertebral artery dissection or not. If they don't have neurological symptoms, it's not something that you would be able to determine. And that's not to say that anyone with neck pain needs an angiogram of their neck done. But it's just, yeah, that's why this is also tricky and controversial and people argue about it a lot. So my personal philosophy is not to have people mashing on my neck. And I generally advise the same to others. Seems reasonable, but I assume that, you know, somebody is going to come at us. And yeah, we'll deal with that. As far as treatment goes, anticoagulation is the preferred treatment, although there's been some thought to like do nothing because some people it tends to resolve. It obviously depends on the amount of symptoms, the patient presentation or whatever. Now, here's the interesting thing. Why are we treating a bleed with an anticoagulant? I mean, that's really what we're talking about here. Like, look, man, you're bleeding into a space you shouldn't be bleeding into. Why are we giving you an anticoagulant? What's up with that? Yeah, because when blood sits someplace too long, it can clot. And the clot can then, depending on. !нененене, Milliarden,нене, Milliarden,нене, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden, Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden Milliarden the like ongoing management of their neurological syndrome that we usually have stroke neurologists for that purpose. And so I'm not the expert to guide those exact types of decisions, but this is very different than somebody who has, for example, what we'll call a hemorrhagic stroke, who is like bleeding into their brain from a ruptured aneurysm or from, you know, a blood vessel that ruptures in the brain. Those are definitively not treated with blood thinners, but here when you have a dissection flap and a clot associated with it leading to stroke, then that's the justification for it. Yeah. Would you have gotten, if I, on the angiogram, if I would have said string sign, would that have conjured up pathognomonic vertebral artery dissection diagnosis? No, but if you had showed me a picture of it, I would have identified a dissection flap. And so that's, that's the key. String sign is not a term that I'm used to throwing around for that, but yeah, a flap is what you're looking for. I didn't recall the string sign, but I was like, no, I don't know, man, it was a long, long time ago. So yeah, I'm clear. So as far as the prognosis on this, pretty good. Most people do pretty well. And I know what you're thinking is you're like, well, look at the brain. He just said that half the cerebellum was dead. This dude was fine in two weeks. It turns out if you restore blood flow pretty quickly, like people do generally well, which is why it's important to like recognize this early on and like seek treatment. So that to me is the major take home here is that any sort of trauma, particularly that involves neck movement that, that results in what we would just call short-term or acute neurological signs, whether it's headache, loss of balance, nausea, you know, they've talked about tooth pain without any sort of dental problem, for example, anything, anything like that. I'm like, yeah, you probably should get evaluated. Yeah. I think that's reasonable advice. Yeah. I just can just imagine somebody was like, you know, a personal trainer, work with a client or whatever, and then bad luck, you know, happens and they, you know, rack the bar and they're like, oh man, I got a headache, man. Pretty, pretty gnarly. And like immediately my brain is like, well, does this person normally get headaches? If no, I'm very suspicious. And then if that person was like, oh, I can't really even stand bracing myself on the rack. I'm like, yeah, don't pass go to not collect $200. Probably EMS. Yeah. Let's get the rest of the session. Your gains will be fine. Let's get you to the emergency room. Yeah. Agree. Cool. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine mystery case. If you're watching this on YouTube, leave us a comment, like, let us know if you like this stuff. We'll probably keep doing it even if you don't, but you know, for the algorithm. And yeah, before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all these nuance and health and fitness from everyone here at Barbell Medicine. I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine podcast.