 blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo blo of intermittent fasting that restricts feeding to only between 1 and 9 p.m., for example. So the debate proposition is as follows. Intermittent fasting is beneficial for health and weight loss. Austin? Okay. So the other thing we sometimes do is we'll take a particular position to alley-oop the other person and set them up when they are perhaps more familiar with some of the data, as is the case here. So I'll kind of discuss what has historically been some of the purported benefits of this. So I'll take the affirmative that it is, yes, beneficial. Of course, as you mentioned, there's a bunch of different ways in which intermittent fasting can be set up, ranging from extremes of like alternate days or extended fasts to just a daily period where you limit your eating to a particular time window. I think the latter is one that is more accessible to people and more often what they're getting at. Sometimes it is a later in the day type fast, like you said, between 1 and 9 p.m. Other times it's more concentrate your feedings in the earlier part of the day. And there's been various purported benefits to this strategy over time. Some people have suggested that it has benefits for this cellular process called autophagy that I'm sure you can address and I recognize we'll debunk here shortly. But others relate to things, for example, like our insulin sensitivity tends to fluctuate throughout the day. We tend in general to be a bit more sensitive in the earlier part of the day and a little bit less in the later part of the day. And the theory being that maybe matching your food intake to periods of higher insulin sensitivity earlier in the day feedings and limiting things later in the day may have some benefits there. This also ties into the entire field of research that was pretty hot in the couple of years ago called chrononutrition or chronobiology relating to our diurnal kind of rhythms earlier in the day, later in the day, kind of variation in our physiology. And perhaps that there may be strategies to kind of match your food intake best to your own kind of diurnal or biologic rhythms. And the idea being that, you know, there was maybe some preliminary evidence that that improved glycemic control or your blood sugar levels, particularly in patients with metabolic syndrome and diabetes, and potentially even some impacts on weight loss, although the majority of impacts on weight loss do ultimately end up seeming to come down to overall calorie intake. And this does, in fact, seem to be a way to restrict people's overall daily calories if you restrict your eating to a particular window of time. The most perhaps annoying way that I can say that it is beneficial for health and weight loss is to say, well, the opposite of intermittent fasting would be continuous feeding, just constant calorie or energy intake, which seems like a ridiculous concept. But there are a lot of people who, you know, just basically graze nonstop all day. But the extreme situation of this is actually something that we see in clinical settings and hospitalized patients in the ICU, where we'll have patients on continuous tube feeds. Sometimes if they're unable to eat for whatever reason, they can get basically a tube feeding formula that meets their nutritional needs, you know, overall, but it is delivered in this continuous slow infusion type pattern. And there have been plenty of, you know, there's a decent amount of data looking at that and indicating that there are some negative consequences to just continuous nonstop calorie intake in terms of inducing insulin resistance, for example, compared with having what we call more bolus feeding, where you get a meal and then a break in between, and you get a meal and you get a break in between in terms of insulin sensitivity and muscle protein synthesis and things like that. So what I've laid out is a whole hodgepodge of different theoretical purported and in some cases, evidence based benefits to at least having periods during the day when you are not in fact eating it. But the other, you know, consideration here is like, when we're talking about intermittent fasting, do we just mean that you go periods of time between meals not eating? Or is there unique benefits to spending extended periods of the day without food intake or alternate days, etc? So I'll leave, I'll leave the rest to you. Yeah, no, that I think that was a great summary of what would be the affirmative position. And rather than bury the lead and go through a bunch of, you know, definitions of what is intermittent fasting and this, that and the other to really clarify what we're talking about here, I think it's well understood that we're talking about periodic, periodic, periodic intervals of avoiding food and then jamming all your food into like one period of time. So time restricted feeding. When you look at the actual evidence on whether it's cardiometabolic outcomes, so risk of heart disease, proxies for blood sugar management, so hemoglobin A1c, you look at cholesterol levels, when you look at weight loss trajectory in individuals who are subjected to a, the intermittent fasting protocol versus a regular sort of traditional dietary pattern, there's no unique benefit to following the intermittent fasting sort of approach. And so that's kind of the gist here. Like, if you agree that you can answer this question, like whether or not intermittent fasting is beneficial for health and weight loss by through empirical data, basically just testing it. And then you look at the data and it says, well, no, there's no unique benefit to following this, then great, that, that answers the question and allows us to further discuss the role of using this sort of approach, whether it's in a clinical setting or whether it's in, you know, a more dietary pattern preference sort of setting. And I think that's probably the most useful discussion. So it's not that intermittent fasting is bad per se, because some people prefer this sort of dietary pattern approach. You know, they, they want to, that's easy for them to adhere to a health promoting dietary pattern with respect to energy intake if they don't eat during periods of time. Also, there's decent evidence in individuals with insulin resistance or issues managing their blood sugar. If they shift most of their meals towards the earlier hours in the day. So that sort of chrononutrition you alluded to, where people eat most of their calories at breakfast and lunch, and then a smaller dinner, and then don't eat a lot in the evening hours. That kind of goes out the window when people exercise at night, but that's a different, different sort of discussion there. And then also to your point in the clinical setting with continuous tube feeds versus bolus feeding. Yeah. I mean, that's pretty good evidence that people should not be eating all day, you know, if you can avoid it. It doesn't mean that those folks don't lose weight though, because they do, but whether or not there are others, you know, health related sequelae. So if it's loss of muscle mass, insulin resistance, for example, those things all tend to do a little bit worse with continuous feeding compared with bolus feeding in that particular setting. So I think if I had to summarize this, it's that there's not a unique benefit to intermittent fasting with respect to health outcomes that have been tested or weight loss as it's been tested. The sort of theoretical mechanisms, whether it's autophagy or something, that's actually been measured. And that's pretty much only related to calorie deficit or calorie surplus. So two traditional, a traditional dietary pattern versus an intermittent fasting related dietary pattern. If it's the same amount of energy intake, the amount of autophagy is going to be about the same. Same thing with inflammatory profile, same thing with, you know, various hormones of interest that people might be, you know, get geeked out on. And so again, all of that is sort of mechanistic, theoretical potential benefit. But then when you look at the actual outcomes, whether it's weight loss, whether it's proxies for health related sort of trajectory or actual health outcomes, there's just no real benefit there. That doesn't mean that we don't think that intermittent fasting is a fine way to eat. It's just not like a preferred approach because it doesn't have enough evidence to show that it's superior. So it is an approach, but whether it's a superior approach remains yet to be proven in the literature. And I think that's the best way I can summarize it. Yeah. So if I can kind of translate, because there were some aspects of that, that again, if we have a new listener who's not familiar with a lot of this topic or the language, might be helpful to kind of translate some of that. It sounds like, and I think we would agree that this is an approach, as you said, that if it meets somebody's preferences and lets them meet their, their dietary kind of pattern goals and things like that is completely fine. But for those for whom this is not a preferred way to eat, if they say are trying to lose weight, they do not need to go out of their way and suffer to force their preferred dietary pattern to fit into this paradigm under the guise that it is going to give them even more benefits compared with if they ate the same kind of overall calories, macro breakdown types of foods, meals just distributed in a different way. Yeah. Is that fair to say? Yeah. And I think for the number of people who find intermittent fasting easier to stick to, they're like, look, I didn't want to eat breakfast in the first place. This allows me to eat the correct amount of calories that I need to sustain a healthy weight and body composition. If I otherwise just restrict my food from one to 9 PM for every person that where that's the case, other people will by missing breakfast and maybe, you know, a early morning snack will overeat during that period to end compensate. And so it's like some, you know, you know, horses for courses, you're gonna pick their pick the right approach. Well, I had a question on my Instagram, ask me anything was like, hey, how long is too long for like a calorie deficit? And actually this is relates to this intermittent fasting thing or fasting in general. The longest fast we have on record is over a year. I think it's 382 days by Angus Barbieri. He was 456 pounds when he entered, he voluntarily admitted himself to the hospital, then did not eat anything for over a year, 380 something days and lost 250 something pounds. I think it was 180 pounds when he was discharged. And it's like, well, you could fast for a long time. And in fact, if you wanted to be a real jerk and somebody asked, hey, what's the fastest way to lose weight? We just, we just don't eat, you know, whether that supports like other sort of things you want to do with respect to like physical performance, you know, social sort of interactions or whatever. But yeah, you know, the, the honest truth, if someone's asked, well, what's the best diet to lose weight the fastest? Well, it'd probably be just not eating, I guess, if you had to say. So get admitted to a medical ICU or a burn unit and then don't eat. You will rapidly lose weight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can confirm. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. Absolutely. We'll be right back.