 sctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctctct I'm fortunate to call my friend and colleague, and we travel together. Because we're hetero life partners. Correct. Now, this week's Tuesday is going to be a little bit different. So I was thinking, what do I want to do? What do I want to do? I did some liver use on stuff like sauna and caffeine usage. And I was like, let's do something a little different. I want Tom to come up with a topic that is related to training, health, lifestyle. I don't know the topic. He kept trying to ask me, what don't you want to talk about? What do you want to talk about? I'm like, hey, man, I want this to be a surprise. So here's the deal. Tom's going to introduce Tom. Then he's going to start his watch. He's got one on. 30 seconds, you've got to go by. That'll probably be sped up on the video. Then I have two minutes to respond. So not only is this week actually going to be two minutes only, this is going to be off the cuff. Tom is testing me. He could be trolling me. Oh, it's true. I don't know what he's going to ask. And we're going to roll with it. But anyway, greetings from Sydney. Tom, do you have any final? Do you have any final thoughts on this thing? Are you nervous? Not in the least. But if I had a better Australian accent, I'd actually try it out. But if I were to try, it wouldn't work. No, but you have a great New Zealand accent. You're like a native Kiwi. It's true when I say Eeks. Eeks. Eeks. It's my favorite breakfast food. All right. Okay, so Tom, I'll ask, what are we going to talk about today? And then as soon as you finish it, you've got 30 seconds, and then you're going to give me a 3-2-1 countdown. This is basically a crossfit wad with intellectual stuff going on. And then I've got two minutes to answer. And I had no idea what I was going to ask you up until about 30 seconds ago. I feel like this is like a magic trick with no, like, backstory. Sorry, guys. But anyway, all right, let's do it. Talk about pause squats and why you might want to put them in a program. Okay, we're going to talk about pause squats. We'll be right back. 2, 1, and go. All right, so pause squats are a useful variation. They're very specific to the regular back squat in that they're fairly heavy. Their range of motion is the same, and the mechanics are ultimately the same. So reasons I would include them. Reason one, if someone needed a variation on the squat that was a little lighter in order to generate the correct amount of fatigue and stress during the training week or whatever the period is to drive the adaptation, a pause squat would work nicely for that. So it's usually a little lighter but not too much lighter. So that works well. Also, if someone had a technique issue that I thought they could be addressed with a pause squat, so for instance, they were always going too low or potentially squatting high, you can correct depth a little bit. If their posture at the bottom of the squat was also compromised, you could use a pause squat for that. Alternatively, if someone's dealing with hip or knee pain or really any lower limb pain, sometimes eliminating that stretch reflex allows them to either train around or train through the injury with less pain per session. So pause squats can be pretty useful there. Most of the time I program at two-count pause squats, but you can do three-count, four-count, even five-count depending on the application. In general, I do these belt lifts because, again, the point is to do them with a little less weight than your regular squat. Certainly, if you get close to a knee, you can throw the belt back on because you want to use maybe to crank out the fatigue. But, yeah, pause squats, good variation, very specific, usually doing belt lifts and respond really well to rep ranges in that sort of five to eight range. That's kind of the line range, three to eight, five to eight, something like that. Dude, you did it with five seconds left. Hooray! We had a set of five left. You did five. Yeah, so pause squats are super useful. I use them a lot. I find, you know, just Austin and I, our programming is pretty similar. We find that there's a pretty good carryover from the pause squat to the regular squat. And instead of, and during our development cycles, we don't just do regular squats like squat with belt all the time. So the pause squat is very similar, allows us enough variation to, you know, not maybe either overreach or sort of get a little desensitized to the effect of the squat with belt. So it's kind of a little variation without going off the reservation. So something off the reservation would be like a Cameron Barr, you know, good morning to change. It's so non-specific. It doesn't mean that it doesn't help you get stronger. It's just I'm not sure what the transference is of an exercise to a specific motor pattern like a squat. And I do think that two-count or three-count pause squats up in that range is probably generally useful for trainees that are coming off knowledge progression too. So you can introduce them fairly early on. So the last thing I'll say is that on, like, if I was going to switch the body to an advanced novice program, very often I'll have them deadlift first on the light day because they get to do the deadlift first. Then they're less fatigued. Then they get to press or bench as normal. And then they're going to finish with paused squats. Because I think that light squat day, basically what you're saying is you want a little bit less stress, but you don't want to reduce the stress so much so that you're not allowing your lifter to progress. So that's usually my change if I'm going to switch somebody from the standard novice linear progression. I'll have the second day be a deadlift, press or bench, whatever they're supposed to be doing, and then pause squats. Do you use pause squats with your trainees? Rarely. Although I do have to say. No. I often use box squats more. Okay. So I actually, I have begun to incorporate them a little bit. And I hate to admit this in front of you because it seems needlessly, I don't know, needlessly, like, being nice. But it may actually be your and Austin's influence. We're running off on you. Yeah. Well, I've been using them. I've used them so much myself. I've used them so much. So I've seen their, I've seen their usefulness. I've seen it. I've seen it. The, you know, that is an interesting question you raised between the pause squat and the box squat. Like, why not just do a box squat? In fact, you could make an argument that the box squat, since you're actually stopping on a surface, that you don't run the risk of accidentally using a stretch reflex to get you out of the bottom of the pause squat. Well, you, that is true that you do eliminate the stretch shortening cycle provided you don't actually bounce off the box. A couple problems with the box squat potentially. One is that because you actually get to stop and sit on something, it may alter your mechanics. And I can see people sit very far into their hips, for instance, or take a bottom position that's otherwise, you know, something you could not actually do without a box there supporting you. Two, you're applying another compressive force from the bottom, also on the spine, which I don't think it, you know, mechanically is particularly injurious, but certainly something to consider there. And then also, because you're not forcing yourself to stay so tight at the bottom, you're not actually going down or up. I think that it's easier to get a little looser or relax a little bit on the box. Also, you can kind of rock back and forth, which is, again, something you wouldn't really do with the weight. The problem with the pause squat is not pausing. You kind of just, like, slowly, like, go through your stretch shorting cycle. Or you pause, and then you go down and up. Right. Or at the bottom, you relax, which, again, just relax at the bottom's bad. I use box squats less, although occasionally people with some lower external pain, I'll have them do squats above parallel to a box and, like, work that box down. Or pins inward, too. The problem with a box squat is you've got another piece of gear. Yep. And if you want to get below parallel, you then need to spend some time either with a video camera or someone spotting you to find it. I use it, actually, to try and exaggerate the bottom position for people that don't like to lean over or people that are moving forward because it actually is a useful kind of stopping point. So the weakness in the box squat or potentially strange kind of position can be useful in trying to overcorrect for another deficiency. Yeah. Or also, for instance, if you have a person who's coming to your gym who's just learned how to squat and they don't want to go all the way down to death and you want to give them some sort of cue, works way better than a medicine ball. So, good question. Maybe when you should use a medicine ball for squat depth. Answer, never. All the time. No, look, the little dinosaur ball-looking things are great for many things. They're not good for squat depth. One, they move around a bunch. Two, they're soft. Three, the height isn't necessarily correct. Four, if someone were to, like, reach their hips back too far and miss and then, you know, trip over a round object versus that sturdy box. Yeah. So I don't see a real good reason for that other than they're cheaper and more mobile than actual boxes. Mobility is important. Anyway, so, yeah, I think we've kind of thoroughly exhausted box squats in our two-minute Tuesday. Thanks, Tom. Thank you. So maybe next week, if you guys like this, we'll have Tom do this again, but we'll be in Melbourne. So, hey, if you guys like the video, hit like below, subscribe, share with your friends. Thanks for tuning in. We'll catch you guys next time. Bye. Bye.. Bye..