! What are we talking about today? So in the past, you've said that your two-minute Tuesday videos have an eight-minute after party. And when I heard that, I chuckled. So I'm going to consider this video, we're going to have like a two or three-minute pregame before the two-minute Tuesday. So we have to briefly explain something before we get into it. So will you define, briefly define in your own words, specificity as it relates to programming training? Sure. Is it important? If so, why? So just to get that out of the way, let's talk about that real quick. All right. All right. So the pregame. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. So the pregame. Talk about what is specificity. Yeah. So the way I define specificity is any movement or activity that closely mimics the test. So as it relates to training, we can consider the big three, the squat, the bench press, the deadlift, or in strength lifting, the squat, the press, and the deadlift. Any movement that closely mimics the movement is specific. Are those movements are those movements are specific. So for example, a squat is very specific from a training perspective to the squat, whereas a leg press is less specific to the squat, though they both train the same muscle groups. So as far as is it important, it is a very important consideration when making programming decisions for a trainee. A related term that I think we should just get out of the way first is sensitivity. So I define training sensitivity as the result you get from a given amount of training stress in a particular movement. So imagine you got five pounds. If you could somehow discern that you got five pounds on your bench press from doing five sets of five with just a regular bench press, right? And you got the same improvement from doing three sets of five close grip bench press. You would be more sensitive to the close grip bench press than the regular bench press in that sort of scenario. And so the sensitivity to training matters as well. You get desensitized to training as you continue seeing the same movements over and over again. This is part of the repeated bout effect. Repeated bout effect states that you get better at both recovering from and performing the things that you are repeatedly exposed to. So the first time you run a 5K, it's terrible, right? The second time you run it, it's less terrible. And the hundredth time you run it, it's not terrible at all. It's not even a stress. In fact, it will no longer improve your ability to run a 5K. You're answering my question before I even ask it. That's good. Dang it! Well, so I think it's important to address all of these things beforehand so that when you ask the question, I can get into the specifics of specificity without having... I mean, this is the pregame, so we have to lay the groundwork. Okay. So, now that we've established the fact that specificity is an important factor, right? Why, then, does Austin, who's my coach, not have me put on a singlet every day, work up to a max or a heavy single squat, bench, and deadlift multiple times a week? Because you would think that if I practice powerlifting every day, every training day, I would get better at powerlifting, right? Sure. So, why am I not doing that? Well, so it's not that that's wrong. So, theoretically, there's a time and a place for hyper-specific work. When you're trying... You're no longer trying to build strength as much or develop it. You're trying to translate the existing strength that you have to performance. So, effectively, you're saying, this is the amount of strength that I have. How do I display it maximally on the platform? So, what would you do? You would squat with the belt, you know, plus or minus a singlet, preferably with clothes, you know, frequently. You would do the same thing with a deadlift and a bench press if you're going to a powerlifting meet, right? With little to no variation, because at that point, you're just learning. You're hyper-refining your skill, okay? Now, the more and more you expose yourself to this, again, you desensitize yourself to it over time, which is why that training doesn't work for very long. That's why peaking doesn't work for very long. Effectively, you're translating developed strength, okay, into performance, and then when you no longer are sensitive enough to that stimulus, you don't adapt anymore. You're just... You've kind of run it out, right? So, that's the deal. So, if you were three weeks out from a meet, that might be a reasonable strategy, all right? But if you're 12 weeks out from a meet, then you're trying to develop as much strength as possible, right, before it's time to... Okay, now it's time to perform. If you're a novice lifter, these are not things that you're necessarily considering, but later on in your training career, when you're talking about periodizing your training over time, you want to take into consideration, well, when is my competition, if I have one, right? If you're an athlete, then you are competing by definition, okay? And then, how long does it take me to get into peak form? What, you know, so, one, how much result do I get off of being super specific, and then how long does that last? So, for me, it's like a two- or three-week thing. That's all I have. And that's legitimately, I could just squat with a belt for every squat variation I had, bench, one count paused, every bench variation I had, deadlift, like a regular pull. If I do it for more than two or three weeks, I'm going to actually regress. Because there's not enough training stimulus to preserve. So, interesting. Most people would probably respond, well, the reason you don't work up to heavy singles every single day is because it's too stressful, right? Like, potential for injury goes up, whatever. You can't recover from it. It's too stressful. But you might flip it and say, it's actually not stressful. It's not stressful enough. Yeah. Yeah, so I would say, I mean, does the risk of injury or pain that otherwise compromises your ability to train regularly, does that go up as the intensity goes up, as the weight on the bar goes up? I mean, maybe. I mean, if there's, I think the pain in general, that whole science is super nuanced. So, it'd be difficult to make that argument and make it stick, especially because injury with resistance training is super low anyway, right? So, I don't know if I really buy into that. I think that people will have some psychological factors based on their expectations for training. If they think that doing heavy singles all the time is going to just really crush them, well, hey, that's going to work. If they buy into the fact that doing a bunch of deadlifts each week is going to crush them, guess what? They're going to feel wrecked. But I find that setting goals for each training block or period of time is super useful. Writing them down can be super useful. It's like a future authoring program. You're like, hey, I'm going to squat 600 at the end of the cycle. Here's how I'm going to do it. And you may even predict your numbers week to week to week. You're setting goals for yourself, and that's your expectation. You're changing it. I thought RPE was about your mood and how you're feeling. RPE is really about gauging readiness to train and your performance so you can gauge what you should do on that given day. I mean, writing numbers down on paper is great until that plan no longer is valid. It's like the Mike Tyson thing. Everybody's got a plan until you get punched in the mouth. That's true. You may come in the day and say, hey, I slept super great last night. My relationship with my significant other is going great. I just got a raise. I'm having the best day ever. I'm going to set a PR. And then you hit your last warm-up, and it moves terribly. And you don't know why. I mean, honestly. And so then what? You just leave the gym? I'm over-trained. And probably you're under-trained. Most likely you're under-trained. So, and finally, the last thing I'll say before I know the – I don't even know if we're in the middle of the party. Like, what is this? This is like the second drink. Just call it Topic Tuesday. Topic Tuesday. The last thing I'll say on this is, you know, if you use my paradigm to view stress recovery adaptation, there's no such thing as over-training. And so what you can do is you can see a person accumulate a ton of stress, a lot of training, right? But it's not productive. So this is a person who's doing a training program that is very stressful, okay? But maybe super non-specific, okay? Super – it's not very well thought out, and it just doesn't produce the results that they're looking for. Which they accumulate a bunch of stress. It's just not applicable to what they wanted to do. So you don't really over-train. You're just training wrong. And that's kind of my thing. Most people are under-trained. You can take that to the bank. Most people are under-trained. I know I said that was the last thing I'm going to say, but just – sorry. Hey, your channel, right? I know. You have all these questions in your beard that you want to get out. The interesting thing is the less responsive you are to training, the more training stress you need to get the same response. So we call this training-resistant, anabolically resistant. So the older you are, the more female you are, the lower testosterone levels, the less broad shoulders, all these factors, the lower vertical jump, the – you know, all these things make you more and more anabolically resistant. Which means that you need to train more to get the same amount of adaptation as somebody who's very sensitive to training, who's the 17-year-old person who lives equidistant between IHOP and here, right? Who lives in their mom's basement and, you know, gets to gain a ton of weight, has no job, and his girlfriend likes it. Or possibly someone on gear, squatting once a week. Totally, yeah. Yeah, so that's the thing. You're super sensitive to training if you're on a ton of drugs as well, okay, and gaining weight. So there's, like, two independent mechanisms. Also, the psychological process of being on anabolic steroids has been, you know, shown over and over again. And so, yeah, you're super sensitive to training, and so you respond well to even, you know, poorly thought-out training. Whereas, again, if you're a 65-year-old person, right, the idea is you can't train less and get a bigger response from it. I'm not saying you don't get any response. You just don't get as much. And so if you're trying to prevent yourself from going six feet under, don't train less. Don't do less. Unless you have to do more and be smart about it. So, okay, that was really the last thing I'll say before I give you another chance to ask a question. We did an appetizer. We did the main course. We're done. It's time for bed. We get a dessert. No coffee at the end? No. No. I'm fine. So training specificity, super important. You know, just like I think the take-home is in every sport we always criticize when somebody super specializes early on, right? So the kid who wants to be a hockey star, if you say, oh, yeah, just go play only hockey from a very young age, we say, that's a dumb idea. And then the evidence, again, suggests that's not a good thing. So why do we champion it in resistance training, right? Especially for a non-competitive barbell lifter. If you're not a power lifter or an Olympic lifter, right, then why are we saying only do these exercises? Don't do any variation. Variation is bad. That's actually the antithesis of what sports science has shown us all the time. And if you are a barbell sport athlete, okay, then doing only the competition lifts only. At some point, you'll desensitize yourself to that and require copious amounts of training volume and training resources being dedicated to doing those things to get even smaller response, which is why the variations can be useful. So if you've never seen a pause squat before or a tempo squat before, you can get a bigger bang out of doing that than a regular squat. It doesn't mean stop doing regular squats. It just means that we're trying to use our training resources very economically. So training specificity matters. Variations can be important for this reason and others. And if you are anabolically resistant, you can't do less. There are no biological free lunches. We have to put them in the world. Hey, guys. Thanks for watching our YouTube channel. Thanks to our special guest, Alan Thrall and his beard. We'll catch you guys next time on the Barbell Medicine YouTube channel. Barbell Medicine here with you from bench to bedside. I love it. That's good. That's good. I'm scared. Some sort of stroke. Yeah, he just died. That now? Yeah. Are you talking about... No, no, it's fine. No, no. I think we'll be all right. I think we're okay. Okay, so same thing. So this is... But now I feel like we should switch spots. Oh, sure. Because it's your video. We're starting with that one? It's fine. Or we can look at mine. Okay. I mean... Yeah. Can we look at mine? Are we both in? If I need scooters. Yeah, you need to scoot over a little bit. So you're good at that's better. How do I get taller? You don't look that much shorter in the shot. Perfect. No, we look good here too. Did you get that? That looks fantastic. Did you get that? I'm impressed. Okay.