 sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell sell micro damage, which can leak enzymes like AST and ALT into the blood that can look like liver damage. Can we, you know, follow up with some labs, you know, in a week or two after I take a break from exercise before any further imaging or specialist referrals? Does that seem reasonable to you? Yeah, seems reasonable. And tacking on a CK would be also supportive in that context as well. I think that's fair. Yeah. For those who want to avoid taking a week off, I can just imagine you being counseled to take a week off. On the one hand, you know, you probably would do it just to avoid any, you know, further kerfuffle, but maybe you wouldn't. Maybe you'd push back. Look, hey, doc, can we repeat the test? Can we also add a CK? Can we add a lactate dehydrogenase perhaps? And if my CK is highly elevated alongside my AST and ALT, it should theoretically confirm that these enzymes are coming from my muscles rather than my liver. Would you be on board with that in isolation? I suspect no, but yeah, saying confirm is a high degree of confidence there. And so I think this is just a case where talking about it in the abstract is a little more challenging than having a real patient scenario in front of me to work through and see my like level of comfort. Now, if I'm confident that this patient has good access to care and follow up and they're willing to, you know, we're willing and able to monitor things over time, then doing a repeat with a CK. And if it's all kind of correlated, because this is also important is remember how I was talking about how labs can have a predominant abnormality. And so if the, you know, transaminases are much higher than the alkaline phosphatase, it's like a much more hepatocellular pattern. If the alkaline phosphatase and the bilirubin are much higher, it's a more cholestatic pattern. It could be mixed. They could be evenly elevated. So I'm imagining a scenario, for example, where somebody's transaminases are like, you know, 180, 200, something like that. But the CK is like just very mildly elevated above the, you know, lower limit of, or above the limit of normal. It's like, I still am reluctant to chalk it up to that because the degree of abnormality is disproportionate. So need to be kind of concordant in that way for me to even feel okay. And I might still want to monitor it over time. Because what's the worst case scenario in something like that, if you are to just assume that it's exercise is instead, you're missing some sort of smoldering long-term process. And then years later, the person ends up developing more advanced liver disease, potentially even cirrhosis, potentially even needing a liver transplant. Like this sounds kind of crazy or catastrophic, but this truly does happen. And so like the patient that I alluded to, who I think has PBC, she has had some degree of liver abnormality and like chronic symptoms like itching and fatigue for the better part of a decade. And a middle-aged to older woman with like chronic fatigue and itch for like a decade, I'm like, okay, this may well be PBC. And that is something that is well-recognized. But the typical diagnostic delay in that condition is very long. And I would prefer to not be a contributor to that degree of diagnostic delay by saying, ah, it's just your physical activity. So that's kind of my hesitation. It would need to be a compelling story, good follow-up, concordant results that are kind of like tracking together reliably over time. And again, like you quoted kind of average stats for what happens to these labs after exercise, the average time to increase, to peak, to come down. There's still a lot of variation around that. I think you and I have both had our labs drawn and we have not ourselves taken prolonged time away from exercise, even when we've gotten labs done. And our liver chemistries, at least I know mine, are not terribly elevated. And so they're actually weren't elevated at all the last time I got. And so maybe there's some degree of adaptation. Maybe I, you know, had a lighter session on Friday. Maybe I had the weekend off and maybe I got done Monday morning and that was just long enough for stuff to clear. But that's been my own personal experience is that it's not even the case for everyone that this always happens. There's a lot of variation between people. Yeah. All right. And then the final scenario, this is for the minimalist or the person who wants to do the least. Yeah. I suspect you will balk at this idea. Hey doc, look, since I'm completely asymptomatic, I feel fine. The standard guidelines suggest that mild elevations, um, so less than, you know, three times the upper limit of normal, I can be safely monitored with expectant observation. I'd prefer to watch and wait with the retest in four to six weeks. I'll take a week off of the gym before I go back in the labs. Oh, I'm actually completely fine with that. Uh, and the, well, the, the reason is the timeline that you gave me four to six weeks is not a long time. If he said, I'd rather just watch and wait and recheck in like, you know, a year and a half. Uh, uh, no, I don't feel as good about that. But again, this is, this was actually part of my counseling to this hypothetical or this real patient that, that we walked through where I said, look, there's some elevation, there's something going on here. We will get to the bottom of it. But the good news is that it's not severe life-threatening imminently. We have time to figure it out. So I was kind of allaying that concern. And that's also why, like when he said, oh, I have travel and I'm going to recheck them when I get back. I'd be like, okay, you know, uh, you know, there's, there's not, not, there's a non-zero risk there, but I'm actually quite comfortable with it just because the degree is not in a severe situation. Somebody has transaminases that are actively rising 300, 400, 500, 600. I'm like, no, no, no, no, we, we need to do this now. Uh, but with this degree of elevate, that that's not a big deal at all. That's totally fine. Before we close out, here are the five things I want you to take away from today's case. One, ALT and AST are liver associated enzymes. They're not exclusively liver enzymes. They're found in the muscle and exercise releases them into your bloodstream. Two, resistance training can elevate them to well above the normal range. And that's completely normal physiology, especially if you're new to training. Three, these enzymes can stay elevated for up to 10 to 12 days after a hard workout. So timing matters for when you get your labs done. Four, your physician might not think to ask you about your exercise habits when they see these numbers. And so you may need to bring it up yourself. And five, if your doctor wants imaging or a specialist referral, it is completely reasonable to request a repeat test after a week off from training first. That's the move. Full episode is linked below. And if this helped you, please leave us a five-star review. It's the single best thing you can do so that we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance and health and fitness. All right, Austin, any other tips for our would-be patients who are currently listeners? Don't try to interpret your own labs. Get some expert consultation. Doing labs, interpreting labs is complex. It is challenging, even for experienced clinicians. I do a lot of these as part of our kind of barbell medicine consults here and there. I do it with patients. And I'm happy to help people through that process myself. But yeah, don't try to do this on your own would be my main advice. Yeah, that's good advice. All right. So that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Mystery Case. Hopefully you guys took home something useful. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. Special shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for joining me on the podcast. I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.