 All right, question number two, what is one thing that each one of you wish you knew more about? You can start, yeah, why don't you start this one? Everything? Yeah. I don't think I've ever had anything that, you know, you know what, I wish I knew less about that. Oh, that is a lie. I wish I knew less about influencer culture. Yeah. Otherwise, everything. Yeah. I think if I could pick one sort of either science-related topic or like fund of knowledge type situation that I knew more about, it would be statistics, particularly related to science and, you know, epidemiology, and, yeah, other whole graduate programs in that I feel fairly confident in reading papers, you know, and ascertaining, does this methodology support the conclusions and kind of weighing that evidence against what I previously knew? But if I had a better statistical background, I'd be able to tear apart these papers at an even higher level and probably have some different insights that I'm just completely missing right now based on my limited, although somewhat trained, statistical knowledge. Yeah, I actually think that's a good answer. I figured you're usually better at coming up with stuff on the spot like that. Nailed it. Although I fall in line with Derek, kind of everything in general. But I do think going through the amount of education and formal training and postgraduate training that I've been through, it is like pretty remarkable to come out of that and then be like, well, still don't know much. And then the amount of ongoing self-study that I do all the time, even since finishing residency, has been enormous. And I feel like I'm like a completely different clinician now than I was when I came out of residency. And that's like a forever kind of thing, which is unreal. Do you ever look back at like, okay, so when you graduated from med school, for example, you had X fund of knowledge. And then when you got out of residency, you had X plus Y fund of knowledge. Do you ever reflect back and you're like, ugh. I'm like, I still feel like I'm needing to double that periodically just based on what I see in practice. And I'm like, well, I don't know enough about this. So I need to, you know, add that to. I mean, I feel like I have that, uh, sensation like once in three weeks. Yeah. The problem with the internet is that the internet never forgets. It's either cashed in, you know, certain files. People have read something that you wrote 15 years ago. And somebody will bring this up to me on occasion. Like, hey, you wrote this thing 15 years ago. Has your opinion changed? And I'm like, I hope so. I mean, science keeps marching forward, right? And so if I haven't updated my priors, then things are different now. Okay. Question number three. For an individual already taking prescription sleep medication who still struggles with sleep and sleep hygiene slash sleep routine, which interventions are demonstrated in the research to be most effective for insomnia, assuming they are already receiving general mental health treatment? Austin, I see you did some research. Yeah, I just wanted to make sure that we covered this because sleep is something that unfortunately we run out of time to go into great detail on in this. There's a little appendix in the text, but we've done a podcast on it. But it's so important that it's worth just discussing a little bit. There is important to differentiate between acute insomnia, short term, that tons of people experience, does not need specific treatment in most cases, and more chronic insomnia. And then within chronic insomnia, it can be primary, meaning this person just has chronic insomnia, or it can be secondary to some other mental health-related condition. It could be a mood disorder, anxiety-related, PTSD-related. There are various other neurological, people who've had a traumatic brain injury, substance use disorders, dementia, all sorts of things that can contribute to, or things that insomnia can be a symptom of. And so there's a lot of clinical details and analysis that needs to happen to tease those things apart first. But if you want to just generally approach chronic insomnia management, then sleep hygiene, which was mentioned in this question, is a whole topic of its own that needs to be in place in terms of appropriate sleep habits, which we've discussed a ton in other places. Beyond that, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is one particular behavioral intervention with a specialized form of therapy to work on behaviors around sleep, as well as cognitions. That's cognitive behavioral therapy. Behaviors as well as thoughts. So things like maintaining a relatively rigid sleep and wake time consistently every day. Like get out of bed at the same time every day, no matter what. Go to bed at the same time. But also restricting the amount of time you spend in bed to the amount of time that you estimate you'll be sleeping. In other words, not lying there anxious about not falling asleep for hours. That's a cue to like get up, go do something else, try again later. That's called stimulus control to not be lying in bed, just catastrophizing over. I'm going to be a mess tomorrow because I'm not falling asleep. Things like that from a behavioral standpoint, as well as many others. And then addressing, like I said in the pain lecture this morning, therapies in the context of pain and rehab, where we want to address unhelpful thoughts and fears about the meaning of pain. Similar things apply here. People have all sorts of thoughts and fears about what this sleep or lack thereof is going to do to them. And so addressing those can be important. And then beyond cognitive behavioral therapy, there are a variety of medications that can be used to aid in sleep in terms of their sedating effects. But discussion of that kind of whole pharmacologic category is definitely beyond the scope of what we would tackle here today. So that's kind of like the short story on chronic insomnia. Is it primary? Is it due to something else that needs to be treated? And then within it, there's basic sleep hygiene behavioral interventions, CBT, which can be tough to access in certain places, as well as medications that you need to discuss with a clinician. Because they'd all be prescription and ideally not long term, but sometimes they have to be long term too. Yeah. That's kind of the short story. I would just say if somebody's on medication for chronic insomnia, is already seen a mental health professional, and is still having issues sleeping, like already you're identifying yourself as someone who would benefit from very specialized care, likely from an expert. And so none of us are sleep med docs and have not gone through that requisite training. We do have experience with not only acute insomnia, but chronic insomnia, treating and managing people thereof. But in general, once you are at this level, 10 out of 10 would recommend trying to access a sleep medicine professional. It's just, we're just dudes, you know. Okay. We'll see you next time.