 s I mean, I think the first thing is that doctors are humans. And so humans get sucked into all sorts of things. There's not, you know, anything that fully, you know, protects them from natural kind of conspiratorial type thinking, die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die die Fine. But there's 12 million physicians worldwide. So like all you're seeing here is the impact of social media and like these platforms that people have to with very large microphones and they can say whatever. That all being said, I would suspect that if nutrition education was better in medical school and like more doctors got exposed to this, maybe that would be lessened. But because it's such a small number of physicians and generally they just do seem to all follow the same damn pathway, it's like functional medicine, longevity type stuff, and then they start spewing nonsense about nutrition. I don't know that it would help. I just – it's my feel-good story. I'm like, look, if we increase nutrition training, behavior change counseling training, like made doctors learn how to cook and do this stuff, it would help society. And then you on the other end, the Night King, you're like, nah. Yeah, I'm less convinced that it would have a huge effect. I think it would maybe have some positive in some folks, but at the same time, those who maybe come into medical school already with a conspiratorial mindset, maybe they're just going to already come in ready to reject this as, well, this is the dietary guidelines. It's from the government. Dude. And I'm not listening to this or whatever. You know. I had the opposite experience. You go back 2010, 2011, Jordan Feigenbaum. You're like, hey, what's the best diet I can eat for health? And I'm like, ah, it kind of probably looks like the paleo diet but with like more carbs, like less – not processed stuff but mostly like paleo, whatever. And maybe you avoid gluten and whatever. And the saturated fat stuff is all bullshit. So like don't worry about it. Yeah, right. And so it's not that that was like miles away from what I think now is like the quote optimal diet. It's just too rigid, right? I'm like, well, there's a lot of different ways you could do it. You could be vegan. You could be vegetarian. You could be like paleo-ish. It could be whatever. And I wouldn't be as hard-lined on like eliminating gluten from the diet. I wouldn't be as hard-lined about – I would maybe be more hard-lined about saturated fat and eating all this red meat, probably not the best. Eat more plant foods, stuff like that. But as soon as I was introduced to like scientific evidence and the hierarchy of scientific evidence and like had to consume it like pretty regularly, I was like – it was like a rite of passage. You have to go through like what am I reading? And then you have to – you wrestle with like, OK, well, is this legit or is my prior belief system legit or whatever? But I actually found it very freeing in a way. I'm like I don't have to like make this up. Yeah. I can literally stand on the shoulders of giants in the research space and I can say, look, there's multiple converging lines of evidence that have brought me to my current position right now, which, oh, by the way, isn't like my position that I own and like carved out myself. It's kind of like this is what I think based on the evidence, and if the evidence changes, so do I. Yeah. It's kind of nice. Not tying your identity to stuff like that is really nice, which is I think something that we enjoy the luxury of is not having an identitarian kind of perspective on any of these things as it relates to training or nutrition. I truly like don't actually care about a lot of these things in like a personal way. Just my preference is my preference. But to your point, there's a lot of ways that you can achieve success in a lot of these different areas. OK, a few lightning round questions and we'll wrap this up. One, do you think if we increase the nutrition education that doctors get in medical school right now, it's less than five than like like 66 percent, two thirds of medical students right now get less than five hours of nutrition education. Do you think if we bump that up, we'll call 20 hours of the best nutrition education. I give the lecture assuming I'm the best. Do you think that actually improves patient outcomes in primary care related to nutrition counseling? Probably not. And well, the reason why is because, you know, I think you can appreciate this more so than maybe many of our audience members who have not gone through medical training is that what you learn in medical school, even though it's, yeah, four years of learning a lot of stuff. It is a small amount of what ends up being applied in your day to day practice. Right. So if I think back, for example, to like first year of medical school, how much of the material that I learned in first year of medical school is stuff that I routinely apply day to day when seeing real patients making real decisions in practice in the hospital setting? Really very little. Right. Most of what I do think decide manage treat is stuff that I learned and absorbed mostly in the context of residency. And then honestly, from like on the job learning after residency, medical school is necessary to lay the foundation so that you can learn what you need to learn in those subsequent steps. But I think it's just so early that if you meet a first year med student or a second year med student, and it's great if you want to introduce this stuff to them. But if it is not kind of maintained as a steady drip of exposure throughout the rest of their school and certainly throughout residency training, then it's just not something like a third year resident who is in the depths of, you know, their final rotations or seeing a full, you know, continuity clinic day or something like that. They're not thinking about what's that lecture that I had as a, you know, first year medical student. And so I think it's necessary. It should, you know, I'm not arguing this to say that type of education should not be increased in school, but rather that if we want to make any kind of impact on that, it needs to be more of a longitudinal steady curriculum across medical training. And it's going to be introduced in medical school, but it needs to be more heavily emphasized in residency and in the specialties that are going to interface the most with things where that's relevant to be talking about, right? So if you're a neurosurgeon who specializes in like resecting glioblastomas, then maybe spending a ton of time learning nutrition education is not as valuable as spending more time in the operating room practicing cutting out these tumors. But if you're a primary care, if you're a pediatrician, if you're, you know, I don't know, maybe even an orthopedist seeing patients have like obesity-related issues, arthritis, things like that. And then those are all types of situations where having a bit of nutrition education and behavior change counseling under your belt would be useful. But you don't get that from a couple hours of more hours or 20 hours, 30 hours, 50 hours in medical school is not going to be enough. It needs to be spread out and maintained throughout post-graduate education as well. It's just my ploy to like remove maybe like immunology or something. Just because like, come on, man, let's wait till we get to pathophys and like we'll get to the details. All right. Second question of the lightning round. Same, similar type of scenario. But it's exercise-related training. So in this scenario, in medical school, there is protected time where medical students get to exercise or learn to exercise and they get additional training on behavior change counseling related to exercise. Hypothetically, they'd be more apt to like recommend them to patients if they're doing it or have done it, have experience with it and are well-trained with behavior change counseling. Would that improve patient outcomes in like primary care specialties? I also would give a, I think, a similar answer here. But I'd actually be almost more in favor of this mainly because I think that to the extent that it could be deployed and actually get these students doing this stuff, I think it would be so much better for them as they go through their training. Better doctors, better doctors, better, yeah, yeah, yeah. And I think they'd be, you know, healthier, mental health would be better, stress management would be better. They'd probably actually learn more effectively. They'd probably sleep better. A lot of things would be better. And then maybe by way of them personally, directly enjoying the benefits of this, then maybe that would actually increase the uptake of it more. I still think that if it's not, you know, somehow, you know, persistent throughout residency training, then it's something that's going to fade away by the time people are actually in practice. I truly think that so little of what I was exposed to in school is stuff that I can see day to day that directly impacts things. That's not to say it wasn't necessary at the time as like a building block, as a foundation builder. But the biggest impacts on my practice were experiences in residency, working with mentors in that context, and then things that I've learned on the job since then or done my own self-directed learning since then. Yeah. All right. That's the end of the lightning round. You're just crusher of joy in a dark night. All right. Fair enough. Well, that is a wrap here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you so much for tuning in. All of the links to the stuff we discussed in here are in the show notes below. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Weigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.