 dbtensha,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners,cjoners, But before we do, I have to introduce the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. What's going on, man? Hey, I'm here. I'm ready. He's here. All right. That's good enough for me. Not a ton of major life updates on my end at the moment, but we're cruising. My back is feeling good at the moment, so getting back into the swing of things in training. But, yeah, cruising. I am on a deload week currently because after this week I'll have three weeks of training prior to open nationals in Atlanta, Georgia for Powerlifting America. So – which is for whatever reason, you've talked about training blocks that you've ran that have been successful for six weeks, eight weeks, ten weeks, more weeks. I have had some blocks like that, but generally not for maximal strength development. I'm more of like a four- to five-week kind of guy and for whatever reason. So, yeah, this actually worked out perfectly that about nine weeks ago I decided like, oh, I should probably sign up for these meets now. And so I had one block that was four weeks and I'll have a second block that's three weeks and then go to the meet and see what my cards are. But, yeah, things are going well. Yesterday I had this – I want to get your take on this. Have you ever done anything like this? It's like an energy systems type thing. So the point of this deload week is to like, all right, be prepared for the following three-week block. It's going to be heavier. It's going to be harder. And dissipate some fatigue. And, yeah, don't go too crazy. So the workout started with 85% of my Wunderup Max deadlift, which is about a five RM sort of load. So for me that was 620 pounds. And so I felt like I should pull this for a triple because the program was just take 85% and pull as many reps as you can for it to be RP7. So I did. I pulled 620 for three, moved on. The second thing, however, was hack squat. Load 30% of your Wunderup Max. I had done some hack squatting in the previous block, and so that was 155 pounds plus the sled. I just count the sled as 45 pounds. Sure. And for – at 30% of my Wunderup, I had to do continuous reps for 40 seconds, rest a minute, and do that four times. Yeesh. General badness. Yeah. My god. I don't – like I think I did 25 reps or something like that on the first 40-second interval. But on the last one, it was like 12. And my legs, I don't know that they've seen that much blood flow like ever, like hyperemia for sure. It would be interesting to put a Doppler on there just to see like, yo, what's the jet? But – Yeah. I'm not surprised there was a big drop-off and some soreness like that. I imagine the – what you interpreted as ischemic leg pain during that effort was probably pretty high. Yeah. Zero out of 10. Would not recommend. But yeah, hopefully next week it all pays off when I'm squatting. I'm like, yeah, man, this is going well. We'll see. And training is going okay for you? Yeah. At the moment, you know, I had some recent annoyances and setbacks actually mostly unrelated to lifting from what I can tell. But I've felt good consistently for like the past week. And so I'm like kind of layering back in some of my more usual preferred things to do in training, being pretty gradual and conservative with it as we would be when we're rehabbing or working with folks who are dealing with these kind of setbacks. And so far, so good. So yeah, we'll see. If you could just take special care for maybe like the next 10 to 12 weeks of not accidentally getting strong, that would be very helpful. As far as the universe is balancing your and I's strength. So I'm not in a hurry. So I think you're good. Thanks, man. Take it easy. As far as announcements, we have pain and rehab in-person live seminar that's going on May 17th to 18th in Buffalo, New York. It is approved for CEU. So if you're a physical therapist, an athletic trainer, personal trainer, strength coach, or just somebody who is interested in learning how to not only assess but also manage pain that you're likely to see in the gym and with clients and with other individuals, this is a perfect seminar for you. So that is linked in the description below. You can check that out. Also, our new second-generation Hypertrophy 1 template is now on the app and on our website. So check that out. Completely redid all the programming there. It's a great off-season block for strength athletes. Also a great way to stay somewhat doing some strength-type work, meaning that you're getting exposed to, you know, squats and bench press or that type of pattern and deadlift while also doing some hypertrophy work. So not quite as strength-specific as power building and not quite as hypertrophy-specific as bodybuilding somewhere in the middle, right, like a little Goldilocks-type situation. That's on our website and on our app. And then for all of this month, it's the month of March. It is National Nutrition Month. Take 20% off all of our supplements using the code NUTRITION20 at checkout. So that's going on until the end of the month. All right, Austin, you ready to do this? You want to give people some statistics and see if it sticks? I mean I think that you can probably do a better job of selling it than, hey, you ready to give some people some statistics. But we'll see what happens. Are you ready to rock? No. You know, no, the idea for this topic kind of came up through a few exchanges I've recently had on Threads and on Instagram. You know, we talk about weight management. And, you know, in general, we feel fine and maybe even good would be a better descriptor when people who are carrying too much body fat say, hey, look, I would like to lose weight, right? So they're motivated. They recognize the issue of good insight. So we feel pretty positively about that. What we don't feel as positively about is the likelihood that they're going to be successful without either Herculean sort of efforts on their own behalf or a lot of support, which may come in the way of medications, may come in the way of surgery, may come in the way of all sorts of different things that we're going to discuss here. And we get a lot of pushback about that. People are like, what do you mean, man? You just think it's a low percentage shot? I'm like, that's exactly what I mean. And I kind of wanted to take people through my logic here for how I've arrived at that position that generally speaking, trying to lose weight via lifestyle modification alone, especially in the United States, is a low percentage shot. It doesn't mean that people shouldn't try. It doesn't mean that some people won't be successful. It just means that for most, some additional help is likely going to be beneficial to that sort of endeavor, which is all fine. To me, I have no like moral hangup about that. When we talk about this, people will say, well, you just – people shouldn't try or you're just absolving people of this personal responsibility. In fact, I'm not. I'm doing the opposite. What I'm saying is that there's no causal responsibility here related to the person and like their general, quote, goodness as far as like their intelligence goes, their work ethic or whatever. That's not causal. So if they're responsible, their personal responsibility then is shifted towards what sort of things can be modified or done that are within their control such that they can achieve a better outcome. And so to me, I think not only is that scientifically accurate, but it's also more actionable in a way that produces the outcome that we want. How does that strike you? I know there's a lot of terminology in there, but does that strike you as something you agree with? Yeah, I think you're pulling together a lot of threads that we've touched on in previous podcasts here and there and kind of coalescing it into a thesis that I suspect you'll be presenting in this episode. And fundamentally, I think it comes down to people's base perception or understanding of excess adiposity, obesity. Is it purely an individual sort of thing? Is it purely like the person chose to be that way, for example, or have that result? Or is it a more complex result of some degree of choices and some degree of behaviors that are more within their control, some behaviors that are less within their control, and a lot of it that is heavily influenced by things in the surrounding environment and world that are outside their control, that if they want to enact some behavior change and try to improve their body composition, lose weight and sustain it, for example, that they're going to have to not only fight against all of those things, most importantly, the surrounding environment that they live in, but they're going to have to keep up that fight forever unless the environment changes. And that's kind of what you're getting at with some of the Herculean efforts. Of course, as you said, some people can do it, and that's great for them, but that's not necessarily going to be the case for everyone. And I've done this before, and I might do a callback to it again later in the episode, but where we've talked about, for example, some people can deadlift 700. If you can deadlift 700, why can't everyone? Yeah, and some people, should they want to achieve that outcome, they might need a little bit of help, might need some medications, might need some surgery, like an exoskeleton to facilitate that being able to lift that weight. And so it's just shifting this kind of population bell curve towards a particular outcome. Here, it's more for health, could be towards performance, whatever the case is. So that's kind of a solid preamble setting the stage for this topic. All right, well, let's talk about it. So how many people try to lose weight each year? So first, we should kind of do a little review of where we are currently. So how many people have excess adiposity, which is the definition of obesity. Now, much of the data here is based on body mass index or BMI. And admittedly, that's imperfect. But for reasons we've discussed before, it probably doesn't swing the number in the way that most people would predict. So most people think BMI is a terrible number because it over-diagnoses obesity, meaning that it identifies people who have too high of a body weight for their height. These are just a bunch of jacked individuals walking around that are over-inflated, too swole. Well, I don't know if you guys have been outside recently, but that is definitively not the case. And in fact, I would suggest that most of these numbers that I'm about to tell you are underrepresentative of the actual burden of obesity in society, meaning they're too low. So, for example, in the United States, the obesity rate is about 40% in adults. It's the same in men and women. It used to be different, but now they're about the same. And it's up from 30% in the year 1999 to 2000. I actually think it's higher than that. It's probably closer to 50%, if not higher. The problem with BMI is that it under-diagnoses those who have a lower or normal BMI but who are, in fact, carrying too much body fat. It by far – it misses about half of those individuals, whereas the amount of times it over-predicts or over-diagnoses somebody with obesity who's just too jacked and too big is like 1%. So the proportionality here is it's firmly towards like under-diagnosing obesity. Globally, about 15% of children are obese and 22% of adolescents are currently obese and about 16% of adults globally. And so you're like, oh, it's only 16% globally. That's got to be good. I'm like, well, you're uncovering a lot of under-nutrition and food insecurity in that number too. But 16%, that's a lot of humans. Okay. So of that, how many people try to lose weight? Best estimates are about 35% of adults globally try to lose weight each year and 25% have previously lost weight and they're trying to maintain. It is higher in some cultures, some societies like North America where about 44% of individuals try to lose weight each year and it's lowest in Africa, the continent of Africa. It's 16.6%, which speaks to some of the earlier sort of mentioned discrepancies. As far as the average lifetime number of weight loss attempts, this was actually pretty interesting. They effectively surveyed just over 3,000 American adults and asked them, hey, look, have you ever tried to lose weight before? And if so, were you successful? And how many times were you successful where you lost more than one pound? And they actually had it split up into like 1 to 9 pounds, 10 to 20 pounds, 20 to 30 pounds, you know, whatever. So the average amount of lifetime attempts at weight loss where people actually lost more than one pound was almost eight times on average for each person in the survey, which is pretty substantial. The average number of weight cycles where people lost more than 10 pounds was just over four times. And then as far as losing more than 20 pounds, the average number of weight loss attempts where that happened was just over two times. And so a lot of people are trying to lose weight every year because there's a big problem with obesity. I don't think I'm telling you anything new. Success, however, seems difficult to maintain as most of these individuals will try and lose weight multiple times over the life. So how do most people fare when it comes to weight loss? There are a number of different strategies that people use to try to lose weight. The most commonly reported ones should not be surprising to people listening to our podcast. They include reduced food consumption, exercise, increasing water intake, the consumption of more fruits, vegetables, and salads, changing eating habits, which is a sort of umbrella term for like eating differently. I assume reducing food consumption and then consuming less sugar, candy, and sweets. Now, of these, the only one that I'm like kind of look at a little cockeyed is the increasing water intake. And I understand where it comes from. People think, oh, well, if I just drink more water, my stomach will be more full, and so I won't have this biological or physiological signal for hunger. And there's actually a kernel of truth in there, meaning that food that contains more water does tend to be more filling, more satiating if you want to use the technical term. But that doesn't apply to food that's – or water that's consumed outside of the food, meaning that you can't have like a Snickers bar and then chug a water and be like – it's just like eating a salad basically. It doesn't work. So the other ones, yeah, reducing food consumption, changing eating habits, exercise, eating more fruits, vegetables, salads seem reasonable. But when people are like, you just got to drink more water, like if it was that simple, then effectively we would just – one, you're suggesting there's a mass dehydration problem, that people are just walking around dehydrated. Their kidneys and their brain completely de-innervated. They don't work anymore. And that there's just a huge pandemic of dehydration that has subsequently caused obesity, which is definitively not the case. Okay, so moving on. So people can lose weight using a bunch of different approaches, but long-term maintenance of that is more challenging. So we're going to talk about that, but before we do, we have to discuss this term that we're going to keep referring back to that's called clinically significant weight loss. Now, most of the time when we talk about clinical significance or MCID, so minimal clinically important difference, we're talking about stuff that has to do with measurements. So we want a big enough difference between two values, for example, that are meaningful as far as clinical-related outcomes or that we can discern via a test, right? So we've talked about both of these concepts before. With respect to weight loss, it's a bit different because we can act very accurately and very precisely track people's weight to whatever significant digit that you want, right? Whatever significant figure that you want. But what we really are asking here about, like, what is a clinically significant weight loss is, what's the minimum amount of weight that people need to lose and keep off for it to really matter? And this is a controversial topic. For a while now, the clinically significant weight loss, the sort of bottom threshold has been 5%. That's generally accepted to be, quote, clinically meaningful. For example, the 2013 obesity guidelines, which are hopefully updated sometime soon, say that a weight loss between 5% to 10%, that's the sort of goal for medically supervised weight loss. They recommend losing about 1% to 1.5 pounds per week. And even when you look at the U.S. FDA, the Food and Drug Administration, for a medication that is to be used for the management of obesity, one of the criteria is that it has to achieve an average weight loss of 5% or more compared to a placebo. The controversy arises on both ends, however, of this sort of number. So is losing 1% of weight, like, not going to be beneficial? And you would have to have extensive data showing that, hey, look, these people only lost 1% of their initial body weight, and that didn't do anything for reducing type 2 diabetes risk, reducing heart disease risk, reducing whatever other medical condition, which at present, that would be very difficult to support. And then on the other end, you would have to say, well, losing more than 5%, maybe it shouldn't be a goal, which I think would also be very difficult to prove. In fact, the way that we think about obesity, and I'll let you talk about this, Austin, is that the greater degree of excess body fat that someone has, and the longer that persists for, that generates a much higher risk compared to less body fat for a shorter period of time. Do you want to go in on that a little bit? Yeah, I think there's one other kind of dimension to this, because you're describing it along one dimension of purely the amount of body fat and the amount of time that it's there for. And I would kind of, I guess, cross-reference that with the distribution of that body fat as well. So it's very possible. Yeah, it's very possible for someone to have more body fat, but if it is distributed in a more favorable way, for them to actually have the same or lower risk compared with somebody with a higher amount of body fat that's distributed, or less body fat that's distributed in a more unfavorable way. And that's something we've talked about before, where you, even though aesthetically it might not be your preference to have a lot of body fat stored under your skin, that is actually the best place for it to be from a health standpoint. The more unfavorable areas of distribution tend to be when your body fat accumulates around the belly area and in the abdomen, in the organs, like in your liver and pancreas. So not under the skin, but actually inside. And so that's where body fat accumulation tends to be much more harmful. And so that would be kind of the most harmful situation is the more body fat that gets distributed into that kind of compartment, visceral or belly fat, as it's often termed. And the longer that that person holds or maintains that amount of body fat for, that would be the highest risk situation. The kind of medium risk situations would be somebody who has, you know, maybe a more moderate degree of body fat that's distributed, you know, maybe not in as harmful of a way. And then the least risky situation would be obviously for somebody who is quite lean or to the extent they have some excess body fat for it to be distributed primarily under the skin. And all of this fits along with other, you know, health related issues we've talked about before, where the earlier you develop it and the longer you have it for, the higher your kind of cumulative lifelong risk is. And so whether it's controlling your blood pressure earlier in life, your blood lipids, your blood sugar or your body fat earlier in life compared with letting it kind of smolder for longer, that will reduce your overall risk of developing all sorts of downstream health consequences. Yeah. Yeah. Well said. I think we can summarize this by saying, you know, if you look in the research and you look for guidelines, most of them will recommend at least a 5% of initial body weight loss to count as being clinically significant. But we'd really be accepting of anything as far as that being likely to improve somebody's health trajectory. And generally speaking, more is better insofar as somebody is able to achieve a healthy body fat level and not going, you know, too far past that to where now they have, you know, diseases associated with too little body fat. But yeah, generally speaking, more is better. Where it's like, well, you no longer actually have this because they've, again, lost so much body fat if that was the principal cause of their particular condition. Whereas 5% may not be sufficient to actually move the needle that much. And those folks would probably benefit from not only lifestyle change, certainly, but also medication in that standpoint. But if you wanted some, if somebody really wanted to stay off medications for a long time and the majority of their pathology or pathologies were attributed to excess body fat, they're probably going to have to lose more than 5%, even though 5% is a sort of like, you know, threshold for clinically significant weight loss. Do you agree with all that? Yeah, ultimately, like many other biological variables, it's a spectrum. It's a graded effect. There's not an absolute, you know, binary. The body doesn't know when you've gone from 4.99 to 5.01% body fat loss. But in medical practice, just like in a lot of, you know, blood testing and all sorts of things, we have to set a threshold somewhere. And that threshold is, you know, to some extent based in evidence, to some extent arbitrary, to some extent a consequence of like, you know, when this is studied, you know, the statistical power that we need to see to actually see health differences between people. Maybe we start to, those improvements start to manifest or become more apparent to us once people have lost 5%. But that might be a limitation of our studies. It is likely that somebody who loses 4% is still better off, but maybe you don't have a big enough trial or you didn't follow people for long enough to actually identify the health improvements that they experienced. So there's all sorts of ways that you could dissect this kind of thing. But ultimately, like many other variables, it's a spectrum. And so to the extent that somebody is carrying excess body fat, their health will likely continue to improve if they are to address that such that they return to a healthy body fat level and distribution in their body. Yeah. Yeah. Well said. All right. So let's talk about some of the longest term weight loss trials that we have. And I want to draw special attention to not only how many people were able to achieve this, you know, clinically significant weight loss, but then also what happened in the follow-up as far as how well they were able to sustain that. So one of the most famous ones is called the Diabetes Prevention Program Trial or DPP, which originally when I saw this, I was like, oh, DDP? Diamond Dallas Page? Let's go. I assume that you're not a wrestling fan, Austin? No. Did I ever tell you the story about when I first saw John Cena, which I know is shocking to everyone who does follow wrestling, that you actually saw this man? Like how did you make that? Go on. Yeah. I was downtown San Diego, a place called Cowboy Star. This is a steakhouse. If you come to San Diego and you ask people where the best steakhouse is, they're going to say that place. They're wrong, of course. The best steakhouse, in my opinion, is Rare Society, but that's personal preference. In any case, I see this man who is a little undersized height-wise compared to the width of his body sprinting across the street. And then I caught a reflection off the largest jaw I've ever seen on a hominid. And I was like, oh, my God, it's John Cena. It turns out he had parked his car, a very nice car. I'm not going to throw him under the bus and tell you guys what kind of car, but a very fancy car in a grocery store across the street. And it was about to get towed. Oh, no. It was a tow truck, like, backed up to it. John Cena hustles over there again. And so I see this exchange going on. I'm just watching. I obviously can't tell what's being said, but a few minutes go by. The guy whips his phone out, takes a selfie with John Cena, and drives the tow truck away with no car on the back of it. John Cena moves his car. So all this imparted to me that I just need to become a pro wrestler to – yeah, I think I can get out a ticket, get some more social credit, and I can park wherever I want. That's what I learned here. Okay, back to this diabetes prevention program, DPP. So this is just over 3,000 individuals with overweight or obesity who also had impaired glucose control, so pre-diabetes. The intervention group, the intensive lifestyle intervention group, got a ton of in-person counseling sessions with registered dietitians for the first six months, and then they had another session every other month for the rest of the year. At one year, 62 percent of these participants achieved at least 5 percent weight loss, so that clinically significant weight loss. So that's 62 percent, about two-thirds. At 10 years, however, the average amount of weight that those people kept off shrank significantly. So basically they were within about two kilos of their starting body weight. Not all of them regained all of the weight, but the majority of the individuals who were successful initially regained most of the weight at 10 years. The second most common study when we think about long-term dietary trials or lifestyle intervention trials is the Look Ahead study. So this is just over 5,000 subjects with overweight or obesity and type 2 diabetes. The intensive lifestyle intervention group had two to three weekly sort of group treatment sessions where they talked about how to eat, how to eat a health-promoting dietary pattern, how to exercise or whatever. However, at one year, 68 percent, again, just over two-thirds, were able to lose at least 5 percent of their starting body weight, so they achieved this clinically significant weight loss. At year four, under half, were able to maintain this greater than 5 percent loss. Okay, so now they're about 45 percent, so that's at year four, which is pretty good. If you were looking for a long-term lifestyle-only study where people were able to achieve clinically significant weight loss and keep it off, this is the study you would quote. You'd say, look, yeah, two-thirds of people, only two-thirds of people were able to lose at least 5 percent. But then at year four of those individuals, half of them were able to keep the weight off, which I know it doesn't sound like awesome numbers, but as far as lifestyle change only goes, those are great numbers. Yeah, I mean, I'm thinking about this in other contexts. For example, if we had like a generally population in front of us that was insufficiently active and we were able to counsel all of them and get two-thirds of them at least to training regularly, and then of that, five years later, still half of that group is still training regularly. That's probably still, from a clinical standpoint, probably would be viewed as a success, even though most people would be like, hmm, I would hope that more people would be able to maintain an exercise habit for that long. But again, behavior change is challenging, and this is another way that that's illustrated. For sure. Next study is the Pound Lost trial. This is basically a study on different macronutrient sort of spreads, so people eat more protein, less protein, more carbs, less carbs, higher fat, lower fat. A two-year-long trial, 811 adults with overweight or obesity. The calorie intake via any of these dietary patterns was about minus 700 calories per day from what they would need to maintain their weight. At six months, about 15% of these individuals lost 10% or more body weight. I'll say that again. After six months, only 15% of the people in this study were able to lose at least 10% of their body weight with a 700-calorie-a-day deficit, which is substantial. Most people would advise, you know, oh, go 250 calories less than your maintenance or 500 calories less than your maintenance. This was a higher amount of energy restriction. And despite that high level of prescribed energy restriction, only 15% of the study participants were able to lose 10% of their body weight or more. There were not any long-term follow-ups here. The RAP study, I believe this was in the UK, basically had 500-plus people who got one year of Weight Watchers sort of intensive lifestyle intervention. The average weight loss at a year for this group that got a year of Weight Watchers interventions was 6.7 kilos. But that was only achieved by about half of the individuals, and that was what happened at one year. At a five-year follow-up of those who were able to achieve that initial weight loss, they only maintained about half of it, which was less than that minim – you know, that clinically relevant weight loss of threshold of 5%. So the TLDR here is that about half of people who try to lose weight are likely to achieve clinically significant weight loss, that threshold of 5%, that line in the sand we talked about earlier. With lifestyle change alone, for people who want to lose more than that, the rate declines. And then as time goes on, there's decreasing success for maintenance. That's basically what we have right now for lifestyle change alone. Now, when it comes to maintaining clinically significant weight loss, it's a pretty excellent meta-analysis. It's getting a little old right now, so I assume there's got to be another one. This is 29 long-term weight loss studies. They restricted this meta-analysis to studies only performed in the United States, only studies that included some sort of structured weight loss advice with professional help, and had at least two years of follow-up. So 29 studies, over 4,000 total subjects. There was a big range of initial weight loss results, which was exactly how Austin kind of described it. The initial range of all of these studies went from 3.5 kilos lost to 38 kilos lost for women and 6 kilos for men all the way up to 44 kilos for men. So large differences in how well people did. The greater the calorie restriction was, so a very low energy diet, well, they tended to lose more weight, exactly as how you would predict. At one year, they lost about 16% of their initial body weight on average, whereas a smaller deficit, the average weight loss was about 7% of their initial body weight. That shouldn't be surprising to anyone who's listened to our podcast. Yes, if you have a higher degree of calorie restriction, you're going to lose more weight, provided you could adhere to it. And there doesn't seem to be any difference in adherence rates here. So that's kind of one of the things that people say because it makes sense if you don't think about it or maybe don't investigate it. They're like, well, don't go on a larger calorie deficit because it's going to be harder to stick to, but that is not really reflected. It turns out all calorie deficits are hard to stick to, and if you actually have a significant amount of weight to lose, perhaps a more aggressive calorie restriction is necessary. Yeah. An interesting – I don't know if it's a corollary or a tangent to this question, though, has to do with the concept of dietary restraint or how restrictive the diet is. And this is kind of outside the energy aspect that you're talking about calories or like the speed of weight loss because that's – you're right that a lot of people assume that more rapid weight loss is going to be more likely to cause weight regain, which doesn't seem to be very well supported. However, if the diet that you use to achieve that calorie deficit and that weight loss is a very restrictive diet, if it requires a high degree of dietary restraint, meaning you are depriving yourself of a lot of very particular food items, if you start to dichotomize foods into like good or bad foods, things like that, all of those types of more behavioral aspects around this, those tend to be predictive of less successful long-term weight maintenance and a higher risk of weight regain. Whereas individuals who are able to achieve their energy balance targets with less of a restrictive diet – and again, this doesn't mean restriction in terms of energy restriction here, but the nature of the diet itself where you don't tend to kind of demonize certain foods, good foods, bad foods, pat yourself on the back, I was a good boy today or not – around eating behaviors. Those types of situations are associated with better outcomes. To what extent that's like a direct causal line or it's probably somewhat bidirectional I suspect in some ways is relevant here. But it's a reason that we don't tend to shy away from larger deficits compared with smaller deficits depending on the person's abilities, preferences, how they're wired up and what they want to do. Whereas if somebody wanted to go on like an extremely restrictive diet or had those types of behavioral tendencies at baseline, if – when we're interviewing them, doing our motivational interviewing, we get a sense that they have this view on food as good, bad, and these kind of thoughts and behaviors as a result. That's something that I think that we would aim to work on as something to improve because that's a risk factor for not being able to successfully maintain weight loss over the long term and a higher risk of weight regain. Because to your point earlier about a Herculean effort, especially if it's a food item that you like, but because you have come to the belief that it is bad for you or something, it's definitely a Herculean effort to say, well, I'm never going to touch this food ever again. It's going to find its way back into your mouth at some point, and then that can lead to a cascade of further negative thoughts and behaviors as a result. So that's the aspect of like restriction that I think is worth differentiating between just the amount of energy deficit or calorie deficit versus how restrictive or how much restraint does it take for you to actually be able to adhere to it. We've talked about this before as like dietary RPE. How much work and effort does it take for you to maintain that level of restriction or restraint independent of the energy levels that you're consuming? Yeah, and to your point about different people are wired up in such a way where they're going to have different preferences. Some people, when you increase the variety of their diet, that actually kind of makes the wheels fall off because they're like, wait, I can eat this and that and this. And it's hard for them to stay or be adherent to their plan because now there are additional unknowns and they prefer a more sort of regimented approach. Whereas other people, yeah, want to freewheel it a little bit. And so both ends of the pole and everything in the middle, those can all be viable strategies. It just depends on the individual. The thing here to realize is that at the end of a year, we're talking about an average weight loss of about 10% in these studies, right? So if you just all comers, we're talking about 10% of their initial body weight that people lost at one year. Now, if you look a year after that, about 67% of the weight that was initially lost, well, that was still maintained. So people gained back almost a third of the weight that they lost on average at one year follow-up. At two years, more than half of the weight that they lost was regained. And then you go all the way out to five years, only 20% of the weight that they initially lost was still lost. So more than 80% was regained at five years. What do you think it's going to look like at 10 years, Dr. Baraki? I can imagine a nice smooth curve basically representing the world and the environment that we live in gradually chipping away at your success over time without or in the absence of continued persistent active effort. And, you know, if, for example, you're working with a professional, you know, that's, for example, another one of the features that has been shown to improve outcomes is like if you're continuing to have regular follow-up with a professional about this. There's various ways that we can mitigate this, and that's something we'll get to later on. But what you're seeing is this kind of biological gravitational pull as a result of, you know, people's genetic makeup and the environment that we live in such that in the absence of ongoing active effort that is maintained from the beginning, then, yeah, it starts to chip away at your accomplishments, unfortunately. That's kind of one of the weird things when people are like, look, you're going to get on these weight loss medications. Well, you're going to have to take it for life. It's like, well, what did you think you were going to have to do with the lifestyle change? Yeah. Like, you can't just stop. Yeah. Here's an interesting other, I guess, way of looking at this. So imagine, you know, you have done a pretty aggressive, you know, physical training regimen. You've gotten your deadlift up to, you know, whatever, 740 or 750 pounds, and then you just stop training. What do you think your deadlift would be at a year? What do you think your deadlift would be at two years? What do you think your deadlift would be at five years? It would still be in excess or it'd still be above your baseline deadlift was when you started training, right? But it would be just this gradual chipping away at your accomplishments over time. And, you know, whether it would ever fully return back to the baseline, that would take a lot of time and probably a lot of sedentarism and a lot of maybe some medical comorbidities as a result. But it would be this kind of gradual decay function. And I think that's similar to what we're observing here. You might do an aggressive initial intervention, have a big kind of achievement. And then to the extent that it ceases in terms of the same level of active effort, then, yeah, that's time and the world keeps spinning and chipping away at what you accomplished. You mean in order to maintain my strength, I'm going to have to keep training? That sounds like bullshit. Yeah. That sounds like some leftist bullshit. To summarize this so far, at five years of follow-up time, most individuals with obesity who have initially lost at least 5% of their initial weight will have regained the majority of it. On average, only about 3% of initial weight loss is preserved, though there's substantial variation. Some people are going to do better. Some people are going to do worse. But on average, it's about 3% of the weight that's lost that is actually preserved. And if I had to move further to kind of predict how often are people going to be successful, it's about 1 in 10. And we're not talking about just people listening to the Barbell Medicine podcast or these sort of fitness-related podcasts or who have a lot of resources or whatever. We're just talking about all comers here when it comes to weight loss. If you're a nutrition coach, for example, and you're listening to this, you're like, well, I have a higher success rate than that. Well, no shit. The people that you are attracting to your business, this is selection bias 101, which is great for you. Because you can achieve above-average results. You can get more people to achieve this clinically significant weight loss and keep it off for a period of time. Although I would challenge your 10-year follow-up because I'd be curious on that. But yeah, I expect you to be batting better than 100 here. But I would bet my entire life savings that if I were to give you a nationally representative sample of let's say 100 people and then you were charged with getting them to achieve at least 5% weight loss and they had to keep it off for 10 years, I would suspect that you would get pretty – it would be pretty close to this average. It would be difficult to imagine a situation where somebody is like, well, look, half. I did half. I got half. It's like highly unlikely. It would require you as the clinician or as the coach or as the person to put through the Herculean effort. You would have to put in massive effort to be able to achieve outcomes that much better than what is observed in these randomized trials using representative samples and reasonable interventions. Yeah, you'd have to result to using all of the strategies we're going to describe here to – so you're going to have to control people's intake. Perhaps they live in a facility that you own and so you get to control their intake. You probably would have to use medications in a number of individuals and you're going to have to control their physical activity. And oh, by the way, you're going to have to support these folks financially because they can't leave the facility. Otherwise, weird things might happen. Now, just off the cuff, Austin, if we compare this, you know, one in ten people are going to be able to not only achieve clinically significant weight loss but keep it off long term. At this time, we're talking five years, ten years. How does that stack up against these weight loss medications to include GLP-1 receptor agonists like Wigovi and Zempic and these other newer agents like ZempBound? How does that compare? Yeah, so if we're viewing this as you can apply intervention X to your patient and then you can observe what happens in their weight at a certain time point down the line. And the interventions that we have available to us are these intensive lifestyle interventions, which again require continued intensive follow-up over time, versus the use of medications, which require continued use over time. Or something like metabolic bariatric surgery, which is, although it is a one and done, you know, procedure, it does require obviously ongoing, you know, maintenance type behaviors and follow-up and things like that over time. The way that I conceptualize this is similarly just thinking about a population bell curve. And you can just imagine that the bell curve shifts to a varying degree depending on the intervention. So if we have a bell curve of weight loss responses to our intensive lifestyle therapy, say that, you know, people are able to lose 10% of their weight loss. So you can imagine this curve, let's say it shifts to the left from their baseline weight down about 10% on average. Then when it comes to the use of certain anti-obesity medications, then typically the ones that are effective and approved for use will tend to shift the curve down by a greater amount than that. Most of them have a larger placebo subtracted weight loss is the fancy term that is used to describe how much weight loss do patients on this medicine experience above or beyond just taking placebo alone. And so the ranges, you know, you said that the original FDA criteria were for these medicines to be approved or considered for approval, I should say, if they generated, you know, 5% clinically significant weight loss and definitely needed to be, you know, beyond just what you can get by taking a placebo medicine. So some of our older medicines, although they still have utility and are still used medicines like fentramine, topiramate combination therapy branded Q-Semia or bupropion naltrexone, contrive branded, although that's one is definitely a bit less effective. Those tend to be on the more modest side, but still have clinically significant weight loss that tends to be beyond, you know, what people on average in these studies are able to achieve through their lifestyle interventions alone. And then the more modern ones that we're seeing, whether GLP-1 receptor agonists or the multiple agonists, GLP-1, GIP, GLP-1, GIP, glucagon, we have all these like tri-agonists and fancier and fancier medicines that are showing more and more potency. And so when we look at, for example, semaglutide or more recently than that to terzepatide, and then more recently than that, that's currently still in trials, retatratride and cagre-sema and all these fancier medicines that are coming out, we're starting out at maybe in the range of 15 to 18% weight loss on average that is maintained. That's if you're able to get up to that maximum dose. So that's how far it would shift the kind of bell curve downward. And all the way upwards of around 22% or so for terzepatide, well over, you know, 25-ish plus percent for some of the newest ones, starting to definitely get into the ballpark of the 25 to 30% plus that is sometimes in patients who undergo metabolic bariatric surgery. And so what's really, you know, there's not really a question here. There's not really a debate as far as what is the more potent intervention. You know, if I compare, for example, let me, I have some of these data in front of me. So if we look at the efficacy data on semaglutide, which was the brand name, people would know it as ozempic or Wegovi, et cetera. For those who are aiming to achieve greater than 5% weight loss, when this was, when this drug was studied in a placebo-controlled trial, about 31% of patients receiving placebo were able to achieve 5% weight loss over the course of the trial, which I believe was approximately 68 weeks in duration. Whereas 86% of patients on the drug achieved clinically significant weight loss of greater than 5%. So that's 86% versus 31%. So, and this is placebo-controlled. So basically, you know, placebo shot versus real shot. And then we see this huge divergence in outcomes. If we go again to the more recent medicines like trisepatide, for example, a 72-week randomized controlled trial of 2,500 people, their mean BMI was 38. On the placebo, about a third of patients, 35% were able to achieve 5% weight loss compared with 91% of patients receiving the drug were able to achieve 5% weight loss. So huge difference, not really a question. And we see the same differences, you know, massive benefits with respect to metabolic bariatric surgery. So not only are they far more effective at achieving this, you know, a higher proportion of people are going to achieve at least this clinically significant weight loss, they're generally going to achieve more weight loss at, you know, whatever time mark it's going to be. But most of these studies are 68 weeks, 72 weeks or whatever. The plateau is also later. Kevin Hall has done some, Dr. Kevin Hall has done some great work on this. It seems to be like almost an additional 12 months of potential weight loss that people are going to get from these anti-obesity medications compared to lifestyle alone. And when the data is published on maintenance, once we get that 5-year, 10-year data on just individuals with obesity, not individuals with, you know, multiple comorbidities or whatever, because that already exists, once we get that data 5-year, 10-years, the difference is going to be even more remarkable, I predict. But as of right now, we don't have that data. Yeah, I agree, particularly if the patients are obviously able to stay on the medicine that long. There is a not insignificant fraction of patients who either choose to come off, maybe because of cost or maybe they have some side effects that they prefer to not experience or they just don't want to take it anymore for whatever reason. And sure enough, once you're back off the medicine in your natural environment that surrounds us all, then the world starts to chip back away at that progress. And we tend to see some weight regain. You know, there do seem to be a fraction of people who can come off and are actually able to reasonably maintain quite a lot of their weight loss. I think more people will tend to regain some amount of weight. But of those, most of them don't actually regain all the way back to their baseline or go, you know, gain past where they started. I think that that's, again, commonly a thing that people will, I guess, I suppose, just make up. They'll say, well, when you come off it, you're going to regain beyond where you started. I think that probably comes from a lot of people's assumptions from like stories that they've heard around bariatric surgery, where some people can get it, lose a bunch of weight, and a tiny fraction of people actually will tend to regain past where they started. And those stories tend to, you know, inaccurately lead to people's beliefs about it in general. And so most people, if they are to come off of these medicines, will regain some amount of weight. They will tend to not regain all the way back to baseline. And then a tiny fraction can come off and actually maintain a lot of it, which is interesting. And those people need to be studied for sure. Yeah. The data that exists shows that, look, when you come off compared to being on a placebo, you regain less weight on average. And that's out to about a year or whatever. So we'll see how that works out long term. My prediction would be that it would get closer to that sort of like non-assisted sort of weight intervention, but TBD. Okay, let's move on to the next section. We've talked about how many people are trying to lose weight, you know, how many people are able to lose weight and maintain it and some difficulties around that. But why is it so hard, right? Why is it so hard? And I wish that I had better answers as far as like this is why it's so hard. Here's exactly what you need to do to combat that because, well, we would just wrap the podcast up here. In fact, this would be the last episode of the podcast. This would be the last anything with Barbell Medicine for a while because then I would cash in the multibillion-dollar revenue that I would ascertain and I would start my own medical school. That's what I would do. And so I'd have to do – you know, take some time off. But I don't have a simple answer. But I do have some insight as to why achieving clinically significant weight loss is difficult with lifestyle alone and also why it's difficult to keep it off. So first, there are challenges to even starting weight loss for individuals. And there are external factors, internal factors, program-specific factors, environmental factors. And we'll go through them. And I don't want to belabor the point because most individuals listening to this have experienced this firsthand because, again, most people will have tried to lose weight at least once in their life. So as far as external factors, generally we're talking about low levels of resources here with respect to time. So free time, for example, money, obviously, poor social support. There are a number of other factors that would be external but also be related to resources. And ultimately, these are just barriers that prevent people from initiating weight loss. There are also internal factors here. So, for example, low motivation to initiate a change. This can be related to body image issues prior to intervention. It could also be due to previous failures. So multiple previous attempts at losing weight and not being successful can be related to behavioral factors, difficulties with the diet at baseline. So if somebody has disordered eating, for example, or mood-related disorder like depression, anxiety, et cetera, there can be issues there with not only initiating a sort of weight loss intervention but also like having the motivation to even consider that. Probably one of the biggest maybe umbrella sort of terms, categories in the internal factors thing is just low self-efficacy where people not only have this sense that they're not really responsible maybe for their own health trajectory in a way. Like they think even if they did something, it's not likely to work out, so maybe like poor expectations, but also that they have low levels of like skills and tools and resources that even if they tried, they'd ultimately fail because, man, I just – I don't have enough of whatever it is, as my grandma would say, the chutzpah to get it done. Whereas when you contrast that to people with high levels of efficacy, they have this earned or not high degree of like I can do this and there are going to be barriers for sure, but I'll figure it out. And the reasons why that people have low versus higher levels of self-efficacy and the reverse are – there's many of them. And that's going to be a whole other podcast and as far as how to change that, again, beyond the scope of this podcast. But just to say that when people have relatively low levels of self-efficacy, it's very difficult for them to initiate any change, particularly one as daunting as changing their dietary practices. Yeah, we've quoted the role and importance of self-efficacy and how predictive it is of outcomes in all sorts of different areas. This can also relate to people's training outcomes. If you feel like you have no role to play in your own physical development or exercise program, this can also relate, as we're talking about here, with weight loss. It can relate to outcomes in the setting of rehab. We've talked about that before as well, people having this concept of like pain self-efficacy. If they have acute or chronic pain issues, do they feel like they have the confidence and the skills and the resources necessary to self-manage it? That's part of why we put out so much information in that space and we've gotten good feedback from people who are like, well, now that I learned all these skills on how to manage an ache or a pain in the gym or a back tweak or something like that, I'm having much better outcomes. I'm getting better and back to action faster. So that's just the general concept of self-efficacy and how it can generalize to so many different health-related behaviors and probably just into your personal life. It's a good thing to have high levels of self-efficacy for sure. Yeah. There also is some thought here to like having expectations that are not aligned with reality. So from a health perspective, for weight loss, we're really looking at achieving at least 5%, maybe more, 10%. Yeah. Would it be nice for some folks to approach 15% weight loss? Absolutely for many individuals. But a lot of people, when you ask them like, hey, how much weight do you want to lose? The majority, the average answer is over 20%, which is very difficult to achieve. I'm not saying impossible, but very difficult to achieve. And so sometimes having that sort of pie in the sky idea prevents people from starting because they're like, it's just so much. It's not just one pound. It's 20 pounds. And that can be problematic. So that's just a brief summary of like external and internal factors. There are also program-specific factors. So how convenient is it for somebody to do this? And really what we're trying to achieve here, this nutritional nirvana, if you will, is that people should be able to default into good dietary practices, meaning that they do not really need these Herculean efforts to eat a health-promoting dietary pattern, but rather their environment is set up in such a way that they can just be a walking sack of water responding to stimuli that defaults to a health-promoting diet. If you have to go to the willpower well every single time that you get your fork out, I'm going to tell you right now, you're not going to be successful. And it's not because I'm hoping that you fail. It's just that when people have to rely on that for long periods of time, it just does not work. And this is evidenced by even with a lot of support, professional support, monitoring, interacting with the medical system and professionals who do care about how you do, people still can't do it. And so just imagine every time that you're faced – you're like, I'm hungry, and you have to summon the demons. You're going to war with big food, and you have to beat the temptation to open up your phone, get on Uber Eats, and order whatever the comfort thing is. Oh, and oh, by the way, you're having a bad day. And oh, by the way, you're a little underslept. And oh, by the way, man, it's been a while, and I'm on this restricted diet. If you've got to rely on willpower every single time, that's tough. Tough sledding. Yeah, this is getting at the point I made earlier about the degree of dietary restraint that is required. High levels of dietary restraint predictive of not having great outcomes either in initial weight loss or in higher risk of weight regain long term. And it should be pretty intuitive and understandable to most folks that the harder you have to restrict or the harder you feel you have to restrict up front in terms of particular types of foods and your dietary pattern. Yeah, that's just not something that humans are wired up to live with long term. Yeah. Expense is also a big – cost is also a big issue, particularly with various programs that do – oh, you can only eat organic foods. They're only like fair trade, single origin, you know, shaman-blessed foods that cost more but maybe don't actually provide additional health benefits. That can be a nonstarter for a lot of folks. The taste. Just imagine if you were like a meat and potatoes guy. You're just – you're like me. You're from the Midwest. It is what it is. Culturally, that's just what you default to. And somebody says, you know, you got to go on a – it's got to be a vegan diet. It's a raw vegan diet only, and that is what you have to do because that is my preference, so now it's going to be your preference. Hard pass. Yeah, I agree. Like a taste situation, just not for me. But it's something to consider here. If you are in charge of somebody's nutrition, it has to be tailored to the individual. There are multiple ways to win here and to ensure that your clients win. It should be individualized to their preferences. Outside of the program and the external factors, we talked about internal factors regarding starting a weight loss attempt. The environment is, you know, the big, you know, 800-pound gorilla in the room here. We do live in an obesogenic environment, if you want to call it that, and that's not just related to the food environment, so the types of foods that are available in your community. And now that's extended to places far from where you could actually walk because we have this stuff on our phones, not just the food environment but also the physical activity environment. It is very convenient for people to procure food, to complete tasks, to, you know, do work, right, earn a living without really expending themselves a lot. And on the one hand, that's great because that means we get to live this higher quality of life. We don't have to really, you know, go to war every time we need to go to the grocery store in order to, like, you know, become victorious and bring home food to the family. But on the other hand, yeah, the consequences of both this food environment that's filled with high-calorie foods, it's not very filling, that are cheap, marketed to us, that we find them very desirable. And, oh, by the way, they taste awesome, and lower levels of physical activity because of the entire infrastructure around us. Well, what did we think was going to happen? We're just going to somehow evolve a gene that's like, no, you're all going to be jacked, lean, and super healthy. That would be nice if it was very reproductively favorable, but that also is not the case. No, our reproduction, you know, we're able to reproduce far earlier than that. So why would we select for that, you know? Yeah, exactly. Yeah, maybe some additional evolutionary pressures will pop up and that will change. But as of now, yeah, we're kind of up a creek. So that's like this first bucket of problems, challenges to starting. The second challenge here is this variation in response. And when a lot of people look at like longevity, health span, lifespan or whatever, they use this – it's called a risk factor model. It's like, look, there are a number of risk factors for shortened lifespan, reduced health span, quality of life, et cetera. And if we could just optimize all of these risk factors, you know, then people are going to live this optimal life. And so one of the assumptions within that – through that lens is that people are going to respond about the same to various interventions. So within the risk factor model, it's like, yeah, everybody should exercise, assuming that people are going to get the same responses from exercise. Oh, and everybody should eat this specific diet, right? Because everybody is going to get the same response, which we know to not be true. With respect to the diet, there's a wide variety in how people respond to the diet virtually in every metric that you could track from the diet, whether it's weight loss, body composition results, you know, and so on. Some of this is due to adherence differences, right, which we usually chalk up to differences in how people's appetite and feelings of fullness respond to a dietary intervention. Some people, when they reduce calories, for example, in an effort to lose weight, won't get that hungry. They stay pretty full. Their body is like, hey, I'm cool to lose this weight. Carry on, sir or ma'am. And other people, it's just the slightest perturbation of their stored energy, the amount of body fat that they have, or a slight restriction in energy intake. They're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, I am very hungry, and you better fix this. Otherwise, I'm going on strike. And everything in between, big difference there. The main thing to think about here is that the dietary practices are a result of people's appetite and hunger, right? Appetite being this sort of like subconscious signal that your body interprets as hunger. That's a conscious experience, right? You don't decide to be hungry any more than you decide to be full. It's just sort of you're aware of it. These are subconscious sort of things that are going on, which lead to dietary practices that are ultimately the result of subconscious stuff. Yes, you can resist the cake periodically. But as far as how much you eat, how quickly you eat it, most of this is subconscious, which, again, just try to make yourself feel full. Just will yourself into feeling full just like you're trying to will yourself to deadlift 800, right? If it worked, people would do it. Exactly. Exactly. So that's some of the differences that you're going to see with folks. Other differences that we see as far as how they respond to a diet are due to multiple redundant mechanisms that affect weight change. One of them, one of the many, is this change in resting metabolic rate in response to weight loss. You might know this as metabolic adaptation or adaptive thermogenesis. This is not something that can really be controlled. But what happens is when some people start to lose weight, their internal physiology through genetic sort of predispositions and other factors beyond their control balk. They say, nah, I'm out on this. So every other process in the body slows down, uses less energy. So, yeah, you're restricting your energy intake in order to lose weight, but your body's slowing down too. And so you – that person will lose less weight than somebody whose metabolism says, yeah, it's fine. So we see a wide range of differences when it's actually been measured. Some people will – their resting energy expenditure, so just the amount of energy it takes to keep the lights on in their body for a day, it'll go down by 300-plus calories per day. And other people won't change at all. In fact, there's some studies showing it actually can go up. It's like, oh, you're actually finally starting to lose weight. Cool. I'm on board with this. Let's give you a little pat on the back and a little boost here. Some of those trials of that era also looked at overfeeding and showed resistance to weight gain to varying degrees. So some people, when they are overfed or consume an energy surplus, some will spontaneously start to fidget, move around more, not consciously. Their activity will just tend to spontaneously increase to some extent. I don't know. Maybe their metabolic processes also ramp up, leaving them effectively burning more calories, not because they chose to. Their body just does, and it leaves them relatively more resistant to weight gain, whereas others don't tend to have as much of that effect. And unfortunately, you don't get to choose how your body responds to overfeeding or underfeeding from those perspectives, and that may be something that works in your favor, which might be the case for somebody who tends to be naturally pretty lean or resistant to weight gain or people who call themselves hard gainers, et cetera, whereas it might be not in your favor if somebody feels that they have struggled with their weight for a long time. It may be due to some of these underlying biological aspects that they didn't choose to have but are, you know, their bodies set up kind of against their best outcomes here. Yeah, there's actually two studies that kind of highlight those differences that you mentioned here, and they're both done by the same research group out of the University of Minnesota, Dr. Bouchard and his research group. So the first one is about underfeeding, so feeding any calorie deficit. The calorie deficit they created was 1,000 calories per day, and they did it in seven pairs of identical adult male twins. And this was a 117-day controlled feeding study. They kept these people under lock and key for, you know, 100-plus days at 1,000-calorie-per-day deficit. And so if you're at home, you're like, well, look, if everybody's on the same deficit, surely they're going to lose the same amount of weight. Well, the average weight loss was five kilograms, which was almost entirely body fat and nearly identical for related twins. So if Austin and I were twins, we would have on average lost the same weight. But since we're not, there's a substantial difference between the different pairs of twins. It was a nearly seven and 14-fold differences between unrelated twin pairs with respect to weight and body fat changes to the same calorie deficit. I'll say that again. There was a nearly seven-fold change in weight loss results between unrelated twin pairs and a 14-fold difference in body fat changes in response to the same calorie deficit between different twin pairs. And again, they were kept under lock and key, given the same deficit, the same exercise program, yet they had markedly different results. If the range was, well, some people lost four kilos and other people lost six kilos, we'd say, eh, not a big deal. But a 14-fold difference in body fat change, a seven-fold difference in weight change, that's insane. Yeah, really huge and just reinforces what we're talking about, that this is, to some extent, less under your control than you would like for it to be. Yeah. The same thing happened when they did this study kind of in reverse with different pairs of adult male twins. Also, it's just like a bunch of twins that just live in Minnesota, and they're like, hey, man, come on down to the lab. We got another trial for you. Pretty handy for research purposes, for sure. Yeah, so 12 pairs of identical adult male twins in the same research facility, and they were eating 1,000 calorie per day surplus, all right? During this overfeeding period, the body weight increased by an average of 8.1 kilos. And so you're like, hey, they gained 8.1 kilos. So again, the expected range, if everybody responds about the same, is somewhere between like 7 and 9 kilos. Oh, no. Oh, no. Not even close. The actual range, some pairs of twins only gained 4 kilos, and other pairs of twins gained 13 kilos. What? Like how is this possible if it's all just math? If it's all – and pulling yourself up by your bootstraps to just do the deficit, or in this case, do the surplus. Oh, you can't gain weight? Must not be eating enough. While true on a very basic reductionist level, people are going to respond differently to that calorie surplus or calorie deficit and have a wide variety of results that are not within their direct control. And so what do we tell these people? Just try harder. Be a better person. Well, you put everybody on the same strength training program. Some are going to deadlift 500. Some are going to deadlift 700. Some are going to deadlift 300. What are you going to tell the people deadlifting 300? Just have you considered lifting more weight? Have you tried adding weight to the bar? Have you tried trying? I mean it's so silly when I see this stuff about moralizing people's success with weight loss and certainly even training, right? We put these people on a pedestal and give them a bunch of social credit and say, look, this person is strong. This person is muscular. This person is lean. This person is otherwise impressive. They must be a good person. Same thing you see in sports, right? Oh, you're good at sports. So you're probably a good person. It's like I think if anything, you're going to see various characteristics and traits that are overrepresented that are probably not great for another podcast like the fall of sport. All right. So all of this stuff by now you should say is you would agree is complicated, right? And not only complicated but difficult. Weight loss is difficult. Not only achieving clinically significant weight loss but also maintaining it. So what can we do to improve outcomes? Surely there's got to be a silver lining here, doctors. Otherwise, is this just doom and gloom here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast? I've got some good news. I mean it could be doom and gloom. You just want to – you just want to just wrap it up here and say, look, it's all bad. Yeah. No, I had enough doom and gloom at work today. So let's turn this thing around. All right. Some silver lining. So first off, I want to talk about the National Weight Loss Control Registry. This is a cool registry. It was established in 1993. It's an ongoing longitudinal study of successful weight loss maintainers. So in order to qualify to be a part of this longitudinal study, you have to have lost at least 30 pounds and maintain that loss for at least one year or more. And you're like, okay, 30 pounds one year. Jordan, that's not long term. Like why are you telling us about this? Well, of the 10,000 individuals who are currently in the National Weight Loss Control Registry, the average weight loss is 66 pounds, and the average duration of weight maintenance is five and a half years. And oh, by the way, there's a huge range of weight loss within there from as little as 30 pounds to upwards of 300 pounds. About half of the people lost the weight on their own. About half did it with some help. Nearly all of them modified diet and exercise. No surprise. But here are some things you may not have otherwise predicted. Close to 80% consumed breakfast daily. About three quarters of them, 75%, weigh themselves at least once a week for monitoring. About 62% watch less than 10 hours of TV per week. And 90% of them exercise an average of one hour per day, which is admittedly a substantial amount of exercise. But, you know, success can leave some clues here. In a nationally representative sample of 2,500 U.S. adults who have lost at least 10% of their initial body weight, they basically analyzed, like, what these people did differently to their age-matched cohorts who didn't lose weight successfully but otherwise tried. Eating a lower-fat diet, they tended to improve their results. Exercising more, no surprise, seemed to benefit them. And then also using medications. Actually, when you compare the probability of people achieving at least 10% weight loss, the folks who use meds had 105% greater chance of getting at least 10% weight loss. And the most interesting part about that is that this paper is from 2013, so none of the cool drugs were even out yet. Yeah. That's old-school stuff now at that point. Yeah. Yeah. So other strategies that I want to talk about here, and these are all stuff that we've said on the podcast in various places before, but they're focused in this one little section. So what would I do, right? If you posed to me, if you said, Jordan, look, you think you're a better nutrition coach than all these influencers? All right. Well, you've got a better than 100. What would you do? So first thing I would address is the dietary pattern. And there are almost endless types of dietary patterns that can work. Someone could be vegetarian. Someone could be vegan. Someone could be paleo. Someone could be omnivorous. It would be difficult to align a carnivore diet with what we know to be health-promoting, but I could probably make a way if somebody was open to eating vegetables. But otherwise, I'd have a really difficult time doing that. But yeah, pretty much any dietary pattern would work. Ideally, one that, again, does not require a lot of restraint, meaning that the person enjoys generally the stuff that they're eating, knows how to prepare them, has access to them, can access them, knows how to store them, transport them, et cetera. Again, we're trying to make people default into a health-promoting dietary pattern, not go to the willpower well every time they have to eat. Outside of that, I would add protein, mainly because it's going to displace foods that are higher in calories. So by adding sources of lean protein, you're effectively displacing stuff that might also contain protein, but also contain a lot of other calories and other stuff. Yes, I would reduce highly processed foods, specifically ones that have added sugars, because they are not very filling. So don't satiate the individual. They are high in calories on average. And if they're liquid, people don't compensate, usually in their diet later, by eating less. They just eat more on top of that. I would also reduce highly processed foods that have high amounts of fat in them, because fat, because it does contain nine calories per gram, is easy to overeat and over consume calories. And yeah, again, no surprise, I would increase fiber intake from fruit, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, because yes, they're very filling, but also by increasing the intake in that, it is likely that people are going to displace other foods from their diet that are higher in calories, not as filling, et cetera. So that's what I would do from a dietary perspective. It doesn't matter one iota to me, whether it's, again, vegetarian, vegan, omnivorous, et cetera, as long as somebody doesn't have to go through, again, Herculean efforts to eat this stuff, right? Or take out a second mortgage, because that's not going to work either. Yeah, and I think that one can achieve a lot of positive health outcomes from generally having your dietary pattern fit these criteria. And you can also achieve health benefits, whether you lose weight or not, by shifting your dietary pattern to fit more of these criteria, in particular, increasing the fiber intake from whole food sources. That's probably the easiest ticket to dramatically improve health outcomes from the dietary pattern after removing the kind of high sugar, high fat, high sodium, ultra processed food sources, is increasing sources of dietary fiber from whole foods. That combo is a winner for health outcomes, almost essentially independent of weight loss, but definitely stacks on top of weight loss as well. Yep, for sure. The next strategy that I'm going to implement is trying to ensure that people are getting enough high-quality restorative sleep. As soon as I say a phrase like that, they're like, well, how much sleep do I need? And I'm like, does it matter? Are you going to do the thing, or are you just going to complain about not having enough sleep, right? Because it's kind of one of those things like you know it when you feel it. When people are allowed to sleep at their own schedule, they don't have to wake up with an alarm or whatever. And generally speaking, most people are going to sleep enough, but that's not the world that we live in. People go to bed too late. People wake up with alarms and so on and so forth. And so it's kind of like I'm going to say seven, eight hours a night, but like how is that going to change what you do? Oh, no, I didn't know that. Like it's not the case, right? Yeah. So the main thing here with sleep is not just because sleeping enough is very vital for health overall and doing a lot of processes that your body needs to accomplish while you're resting, because it's directly related to appetite and satiety. When people are sleep-deprived, their appetite signals go up to the roof. Their sensitivity to satiety, your feelings of fullness signals goes down. Also cravings for highly processed, high-calorie foods tends to go up. Uh, it could also be part of the TV problem, where people who watch more TV tend to sleep less because they're watching TV. So yeah, would get more sleep if possible. Although I would assume that most people listen to this, that's not a surprise to them. They're like, yeah, I would love to sleep more. Me too. I feel that. I feel that. If I went to the doctor again and they were like, hey, have you thought about sleeping more? I'd be like, yes, every night I would sleep more. Please help. Yeah. Uh, the next thing I would address is the eating environment. This is just where and how you eat your food. So the first thing I would want to address is the time of day. I would prefer if everybody ate, or most people who were able to, ate at the same time of day. Um, the issue here is not only like a circadian, uh, type of rhythm to, uh, various feelings of fullness, satiety signals, uh, appetite, but also getting in a habit where you're more, uh, anticipating, uh, a meal, and you're also anticipating being full. So you're just kind of getting in a rhythm here. Uh, this is probably where most of the data on eating breakfast comes from. People tend to set themselves up for success. If they do that habitually, I think you can live a full and complete life if you skip breakfast. But my concern then later is, is there a ton of differences in when you eat your other meals and, and, you know, perhaps that aligns with a more flexible lifestyle. We'll call it. Uh, I would also prefer that the eating environment be distraction free, meaning that you're not looking at your phone. You're not looking at a computer. If you're not watching TV, again, maybe not part of this watching too much TV problem. Uh, when people are distracted, they tend to be less able to realize these feelings of fullness, uh, and satiety, uh, which is another issue. And of course I would like to have more people eat more meals inside of the home. So not only eating meals inside the home period, ideally at a table if possible, but also that the meals were prepared at home, uh, mainly because eating outside of the home, uh, one unique environment. So various stimuli, it'd be hard to eat distraction free. And then two, if it, the meals prepared outside of the home, the portion size tends to be bigger, tends to be, uh, much more tasty. People have a tendency to overeat. And there's also usually a social component to whatever is normal. Can you imagine going to like a cold stone creamery and you, you order the, I gotta have it. And you look around, everybody's having a great time. Nobody has, you know, my fitness pal or macro factor out on their phone. And you're like, I can have, I'm supposed to only have two spoonfuls of this ice cream. Socially, that would be abnormal, right? For sure. Yeah. So people will do weird stuff. People, there's a lot of mimicry that goes on and eating habits. And so it doesn't mean lock yourself at home and don't do anything, but being aware of, you know, uh, things that may lead to, uh, dietary practices you're trying to avoid can, can shift some of your behaviors here. All right. So that's the eating environment, food environment. Again, 800 pound gorilla in the room. Not a lot that you can do about your food environment at large, like in your community, in your state, in your country. Uh, but in the micro food environment at home and perhaps in the office, uh, yeah, this is going to be the number one predictor of people's dietary practices. So how much they eat, how fast they eat, what they eat, et cetera. If you can limit access to ultra processed foods that are high in added sugar, added fat, added sodium in the home and office, that would be awesome. Especially if you have a high number of options that are otherwise healthy, whether it's fruits, vegetables, uh, lean proteins, it's pre-prepared, et cetera. That would be excellent because again, now you can default into a healthy, uh, sort of nutrition practices. Uh, exercise again, no surprise to anyone. We're on the Barbell Medicine podcast. We want people to exercise, but the reasons why may be interesting to folks who haven't heard this before. So one, it seems like when people who are losing weight or attempting to lose weight also exercise, there seems to be a reduction in the risk of metabolic adaptation, meaning that their body is going to burn, otherwise burn less calories. It seems like exercise in particular resistance training seems to be pretty effective at reducing that. Not all the way, but at least a little bit. Also you get improved body composition, right? So more muscle, less body fat when you're trying to lose weight, which is great. Especially the people who decry the potential loss of lean body mass from these anti-obesity medications. It's like, well, if you just looked at some weights, that would be pretty good. It also seems to increase sensitivity to feelings of fullness when people exercise. So increased sensitivity to satiety signals. That's a little alliteration for you to impress others at the bar later. Uh, and even if you don't lose weight, if somebody makes these changes to their dietary pattern that tend to be more healthy and they exercise, it improves health regardless. Even if there's no change in weight. In fact, uh, that the, uh, diabetes prevention program study. So at 10 years, yeah, there was less weight loss overall or whatever, but the degree in risk reduction of developing type two diabetes from the people who lost weight just for a year was pretty insane to me. It's like, yeah, you tried. So you get a little payoff there. Yeah. There can be some long-term persistent benefits from a lot of these things, even if it just interrupts how much exposure you have to body fat and the consequences of it. And when we look at the effects of exercise or really any of these interventions, as far as their impact on metabolic consequences like diabetes and other kind of downstream consequences. Yeah. Weight loss is kind of predictive of some, of some benefits there, but even better than that is the overall changes in body composition. So to the extent that that weight loss is facilitated by fat loss and to the extent that lean body mass or muscle mass in particular is gained, those people do the best. Those who gain muscle and lose body fat tend to do the best, which should sound obvious to those who are, you know, long-time listeners, but it's something that's been kind of broken out in analyses of like, if you're losing all fat and a bunch of lean body mass compared with losing fat mass, gaining lean mass, et cetera, et cetera, then unsurprisingly, those who have the most favorable changes in like this is measured, for example, they use like an appendicular lean mass, like, and then ratio that to your fat mass index. And those who have the best change in that ratio of like gain and lean mass to loss and fat mass, then they tend to have the best outcomes long-term. Yep. Yeah. It makes sense to me. Now, Austin, what's your take on this? Can people realistically do this on their own or some tricks like to make it doable on their own or do they always need professional help? I would be reluctant to ever say that something always needs, always or never in practice. I think that there are going to be, you know, individuals for whom this is doable on their own and many others for whom it might be less, less doable. I think that our listenership is probably relatively enriched for people who are better, who are more likely to have some success doing things on their own. Whereas if you took again, that nationally representative sample, if I think about a representative sample of like the patients that I might be seeing in the hospital on any given day for whom their eating behaviors are not consciously thought of at all. Like they are not necessarily thinking about what they're eating or viewing it as a choice of what they eat meal to meal. It is a very automated behavior of whatever's available to them. Whatever's put in front of them is good enough and it's going down the hatch. And that's the kind of behavior that takes oftentimes some professional assistants to almost like develop that degree of insight or kind of cognitive awareness to be like, oh, this is something that I can actually think about in order to make the foods that I eat a bit more of an actual choice here when faced with different options in the surrounding food environment. But that's not the case for most people from a generally, as you said, nationally representative sample. So those who are already behaving in a way, who already recognize that their meals and food choices are things that they can impact through these kind of decision-making day to day, I would say that's somebody who already has one of the skills that will be necessary and go in their favor. But people who have no concept of any of this for whom eating is just, if it's in front of me, it's going down the hatch, et cetera. Yeah. It's more likely that they're going to need some professional assistance. Yeah. Yeah. And if available, would 10 out of 10 recommend taking it, ideally with somebody who has experience in this, is credentialed and that you have good rapport with. But yeah, a lot of potential pitfalls out there in the internet. So, all right, you ready to wrap this up, Dr. B? All right. Obesity is common as it affects one in five adults globally and over 40% of adults in the United States. Most people try to lose weight a number of times, giving rise to the idea that it's hard to be successful. Otherwise, why would they try more than once? Now, weight loss can be difficult for many using lifestyle change alone. Only about half of people will achieve, quote, clinically significant weight loss within a year of attempting, with about a quarter losing more than 10% of their initial body weight, again, in that same year timeframe. Now, if somebody achieves clinically significant weight loss, it is also very difficult for most to maintain this weight loss long-term using lifestyle change alone. About 80% of the weight loss is regained at five years in most folks, with an average of one in 10 people being able to be, quote, successful losers in that they've kept the weight off long-term. Now, these individuals get admiration, and we certainly admire them too, for being able to be successful, though we would caution listeners and the public at large against ascribing a sort of moral superiority that is probably undeserved. Much of the differences in both initial body weight and successful weight loss are due to genetics, the environment, and social factors that have little to do with intelligence or work ethic or being a, quote, good person. In other words, the causal responsibility of body weight at any given time is mostly due to factors outside the individual's immediate control. Modifying other factors may be possible, which is where personal responsibility comes in. Nevertheless, success may leave clues for those who are endeavoring to lose weight. Based on the available evidence, the following practices may be beneficial for achieving and maintaining weight loss. Modifying the dietary pattern to include more lean protein, more fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and beans, and less foods that are high in added sugar and added fat. Modifying behaviors to include regularly eating breakfast, regularly measuring body weight, watching less television, meeting or exceeding the current exercise guidelines, and getting enough high-quality sleep. Folks can also modify the food and eating environments by reducing access to highly processed foods. Again, those with added sugar don't buy the snacks. Eating less meals that are prepared outside of the home. And eating at regular times without distraction. Overall, though, there's not a one-size-fits-all strategy for successful weight loss and maintenance thereof. Some individuals will need additional interventions such as medications and or surgery to help support their healthy lifestyle change. We at Barbell Medicine want to encourage everybody, if they want to lose weight, well, we're here to support them. Dr. Baraki, anything else you want to add to this? I think we did it. We did it. All right. Well, that is a wrap on the How Hard Is It to Lose Weight podcast. Again, we do have an upcoming pain and rehab seminar in Buffalo, New York. That's in May of this year. It is approved for CEUs. Check that out in the link in the description below. New templates available on our website. And again, it's National Nutrition Month. So we get 20% off all of our supplements on the website through the end of the month. Use code NUTRITION20 at checkout. But before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast.