 aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin aromasin of these intracellular enzymes into the blood and you pick that up on a blood test. Now, how that happens, strenuous exercise depletes ATP, that's energy, and damages some of the ion channels of the muscle cells themselves, which leads to an electrolyte imbalance. Effectively, the muscle cell now gets flooded with calcium and sodium. This causes the cell to swell and together the cell swelling and the electrolytes now inside the cell break down the muscle cells membrane, which is the sarcolemma. That allows the intramuscular enzymes like AST, ALT, creatine kinase, et cetera, to leak into the extracellular space and subsequently the bloodstream, which brings me to point number one. While alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase, these are also often called liver enzymes, that's kind of a misnomer. They should be more appropriately termed liver-associated enzymes because they're found in several tissues, particularly skeletal muscle. In this case, also the heart, kidneys. ALT is less expressed in the muscle, but it's there just at a smaller or lower concentration. So when a person engages in resistance training, especially resistance training that involves a lot of eccentric loading where the muscle produces force as it gets longer, that's a downward phase of most exercises, the muscle can experience microtrauma, which again increases permeability, allowing enzymes like creatine kinase, AST, ALT to leak into the bloodstream. This is normal physiology, not necessarily a sign of liver dysfunction, which brings me to point number two. It's unavoidable. In a study of 15 healthy men who lifted weights for one hour at 70% of their one rep max, 100% of participants saw a bump in their liver-associated enzymes, the AST and ALT. The average is about three times normal for AST, with a smaller bump for ALT. It seems to be more pronounced in people who are untrained or who are coming back to exercise rather than individuals who are chronic exercisers or lifelong exercisers. But lifelong trainees cannot really avoid this entirely either. It just seems to happen just at a lower level. We think the reason why it happens at a lower level or that there are smaller increases is due to a couple things. One, there's reduced muscle protein breakdown in trained individuals during a workout. And that seems to be an adaptation. Also one of the mechanisms by which people actually grow new muscle, the muscle protein breakdown goes down enough so that the muscle protein synthesis, muscle growth actually outpaces that. So you get bigger muscles. The other thing is you get an increase in plasma volume from training a long time. Effectively, if you sweat a bunch, your body adapts more fluid. So there's like a little dilution of things in the blood, including liver-associated enzymes. And there's also, and you might find this interesting, an increase in albumin production in lifelong exercisers. And albumin binds to calcium. I think it's like 40% of the body's calcium is in albumin. So there's less of that calcium-mediated breakdown of the sarcolemma that can happen because more albumin is being produced. So a little nerdery, as we are known for here on the Marvel Innocent Podcast. Yeah. The elevations tend to be higher in men compared to women. They generally have more muscle mass and a higher baseline level of these liver-associated enzymes. There's also a strong genetic influence with some individuals being, quote, high responders to exercise. Not in the terms of seeing gains necessarily. It's not necessarily like correlation where the higher your liver-associated enzymes are, the more gains you have. But some people just genetically will have a more robust increase in their liver-associated enzymes. We see that also with CK. There's like a condition called hyper-CKemia where people just put out a ton of CK, creatine kinase. They don't have rhabdo, but just their genetic sort of lot that they've inherited. And other factors like exercising in hot or humid environments tend to produce higher levels of these liver-associated enzymes, as does alcohol consumption. Point number three here, it takes a while to normalize. Based on available data, AST and ALT continue to rise 48 hours post-workout, and they may take up to four to five days to peak. And they typically don't normalize until 10 to 12 days after workout, provided a person is continuing to exercise. Part of this delay is structural. The muscle cells sarcolemma, its membrane, doesn't degrade all at once. It's a gradual process, which makes some of the intramuscular, intracellular contents slowly leak out, not all at once. Also, ALT tends to peak later, with some studies suggesting it takes as long as six to seven days to peak post-workout. Could be influenced by the longer half-life of ALT compared to AST. But yeah, it's kind of up for debate right now. Point number four here is that it's mostly harmless, particularly from exercise, because it's a transient, benign phenomenon that represents skeletal muscle damage and repair, rather than a condition that leads to long-term issues in the liver. Because these enzymes leak from a sort of micro tear in the skeletal muscle fibers rather than the liver itself, the liver is usually doing fine. And this is true even when an athlete or lifter appears to have sort of chronic elevation, as in this case. We've got like 12 years of data showing this like chronic elevation, and you're like, is this a smoldering sort of disease, or is this person just always exercising before every lab draw? In this exact case report, the guy was referred to a gastroenterologist who basically said, hey, don't work out for like a week, come back in, and then we'll test again. And then his labs normalized. But it is a normal, healthy, physiological adaptation to regular training. So, you know, when explaining this to a patient, probably would want to emphasize that so they're not afraid of some unnecessary anxiety around, well, why are my labs elevated? I'm otherwise healthy. Or is this exercise harming my liver? Because depending on how you phrase this, again, if the focus, you know, understandably, the diagnostic momentum here is oriented towards some sort of liver pathology. But if you kind of, depending on how you explain it, it might convey the message implicitly that like, oh, you're harming your liver by exercising, which is not the case. Yeah. Yeah, it actually brings up an important point. You know, in a survey of physicians that were given a case where a young asymptomatic man had elevated liver associated enzymes, 56% of those physicians failed to list exercise induced muscle damage in their differential, and over 60% listed primary liver disease as their diagnosis. So why do you think clinicians often overlook exercise history in the context of screening asymptomatic young adults? Yeah, I mean, I see this all the time, although it's less often in asymptomatic adults, because it's more in the hospital ER setting, where everybody is kind of trained to think in terms of worst case scenario, types of thinking, I think it's a combination of things, probably under emphasis in training, also that it's just not something that people see very often. So if a traditional regular primary care doc is seeing, you know, 1000 patients with incidentally found elevated liver enzymes, the overwhelming majority of these are going to be related to fatty liver disease and alcohol, at least in, you know, most clinics in the United States, less and less likely related to maybe chronic hep C or some drug induced issue or something else, that frequency with which they will be seeing exercise, pure exercise induced elevations is super, super low. And as I said, this whole time, that should not be your first assumption. When you see this, this type of thing, even if I saw somebody who told me I'm a regular exerciser, and I found elevated liver enzymes in them, my first thought is not, oh, this is probably just exercise. But what supplement are you taking? Because again, I'm so I need to be finding the things that are more dangerous, more life threatening, more potential for morbidity in this patient, rather than assuming the least dangerous cause up front. Now, I might eventually get there, as of course, we did here. But I would not feel comfortable making that assumption up front, it is totally fine to tell somebody or to inquire about their exercise habits and to try to repeat the tests, you know, absent exercise. But with that repeat test, I would probably still be sending a bunch of other stuff at that at that same time. So I think it's a combination of just like, how prevalent is this as a problem? How often are people seeing this in the regular practice? And then what's the potential danger or risk of thinking about this first, compared with thinking about actual dangerous things first, and then like ending up at this later on. Now, as to your point, many of them will never get to this point. I have had one of the more memorable cases I think I mentioned on this podcast before, was a young patient I had who had severe rhabdomyolysis, and his CK was greater than 100,000. So severe, severe rhabdo. His AST and ALT were somewhere between three and 4000, which is our levels that we usually see with acute liver failure. So everybody was losing their minds, he had liver enzymes, they were calling for, you know, acute liver failure, even though his INR was completely normal. And he's, you know, mentation, he was feeling fine in that way. So he didn't actually, you know, meet diagnostic criteria for that kind of thing. But again, worst case scenario, if this guy's liver shutting down for whatever reason, like that would be something that you could die from. And then when I saw the CK was greater than 100,000, I said, Oh, this is way more likely to be muscle elevation. It's just so high because of the degree of severity of his rhabdo. And sure enough, that ended up being the case, but it was not necessarily safe to assume that upfront. And I get called for admissions all the time on people with abnormal liver enzymes, and they haven't checked the CK. And then when I do check the CK, the person ends up having rhabdo. And then we do the exercise history. And oh, yeah, it all it all kind of fits or something like that. So really common. It's just AI think it's just a matter of prevalence and training and exposure. And then we're all trained to think in terms of worst case type stuff, dangerous stuff before we assume the more benign things. Yeah, that makes sense to me, especially considering, you know, there's some gaps, when a clinician is looking at a given set of labs, given, you know, history of present illness, given narrative, you know, there's just holes there. So I'm trying to create a scenario where you'd feel very confident that in saying, yeah, this is definitely exercise induced elevation of liver associated enzymes. And so I think about a patient comes in there again, they're asymptomatic, right, but they just have this lab abnormality, but it is accompanied by an elevated creatine kinase. It's elevated by lactate dehydrogenase. That's that's up. They say they exercise all the time. They have, again, no symptoms, they got a normal clotting factor. Yeah, you know, I'm trying to trying to create this for you. Is there any scenario, you know, and it may be a normal GGT as well. Is there any scenario where you'd feel very confident? Like, yeah, this is exercise, we don't need further testing. Or is it more like, no, you came into the medical office, and now my spidey senses are tingling? I don't think that there's one of these scenarios where I see that initial set of tests. And I said, no, there's just no need for additional testing, I would probably recommend and feel best if there was some form of repeat testing, regardless, it may be after a period of pausing exercise. And it also depends on how much how confident I am in my history taking from this person, how much I trust that they are not, in fact, using any sort of a supplement that may be contributing to it, because I just see that so, so often of supplement induced liver injury, that I'm going to even in an exercise, it's like, it's probably more, at least as common that somebody is using a supplement that's causing it as the exercise itself is causing it, and I need to entertain both possibilities. Yeah, just to see a one time, you know, upfront snapshot elevation of ALT into the 90s and be like, ah, nothing, nothing to repeat, nothing to worry about, I would not actually ever do that. Yeah. So that brings me to point number five, GGT is an enzyme that has been put forth as sort of this differentiator in cases like this, where some have suggested that, look, if you have a person with an isolated, elevated transaminitis, so just elevated AST and ALT, but everything else is fine, including their GGT, that effectively, you could say, most likely, this is due to exercise. And the reason why is that GGT is not in the muscle, it's absent there, and it doesn't typically rise post-workout. Therefore, if a patient presents with highly elevated AST and ALT, but a normal GGT, then maybe you could just write this off as exercise induced muscle damage. Now, to me, that seems a bit aggressive, not knowing anything else, I need to have some other assurances, like maybe a recent hepatitis serology set, for example, maybe an abdominal ultrasound. But this particular patient was interesting because his GGT was elevated. And so then you're like, that shouldn't happen. And things aren't so simple in medicine. Sometimes this does happen. This can be elevated post-workout. There's been some studies suggesting up to 10% of individuals who have ran a half marathon that their GGT is elevated. Two potential mechanisms here. One is altered liver blood flow during strenuous exercise, diverting blood away from the internal organs and towards the skeletal muscles. So this can decrease, again, the blood flow. And so you get some increase in permeability of the hepatocytes of the liver cells, which allows liver enzymes like GGT to leak into the bloodstream. There's also a thought that this is part of the repair process of muscular damage, which we discussed in relationship to glutathione and the damage to the muscle cells membrane, the sarcolemma. So GGT is thought to be involved in making like amino acids available to cells for tissue repair. So those are the two mechanisms there. But yeah, this patient had an elevated GGT. So like you couldn't even write that off.