 Ve Veigenbaanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanasanas If this is your first time joining us for a mystery case, what we do, this is a real published study in the medical literature of a real case that really happened. And I present the material piecemeal to Dr. Baraki. We get to go through his thought process. He tries to come up with the correct diagnosis. We all have a good time in between. It's like a medical mystery over the airwaves. Maybe at some point we'll have so much revenue coming in from the Barbell Medicine Plus thing or whatever, and we'll hire voice actors, and we can do sound effects, the whole thing. It'll be like an episode of House, but just for your ears. I mean, speaking of which, as an aside, before we get started, I have never been one for medical dramas or like medical TV. Usually it's trash. But in the past couple days, I've seen a lot of physicians in the medical space talking about this new HBO show called The Pit. I don't know if you've seen it promoted at all. I thought you were going to say The Nick. No, not The Nick. That is actually a good one. That's a bit older, but that's a great one. But, yeah, I've seen all these physicians. They're like, this is like the most accurate depiction of emergency medicine that I've seen. All these ER doctors are like, it felt like I was at work. And I was like, okay, fine. If all these people are saying it's worthwhile within the medical community, maybe I'll give it a shot. And so they had released, I think, the first two episodes. So I watched them while I was doing some conditioning the other day. And I'm inclined to mostly agree with people that it's actually a pretty good depiction of a lot of aspects of acute care medicine. I'm not primarily an emergency physician, but spend a fair amount of time in the emergency department and with those types of patients that they're dealing with. And so there was some nonsense in the show, as with many others. There's, as usual, poor quality CPR, a couple implausible scenarios, and some dramatization. But overall, better than a lot of the other medical dramas and medical TV that I'm aware of. So if anyone's interested, check it out. Nine out of ten doctors recommend The Pit. Prior to The Pit, because I have been asked this a number of times. I'm sure you have as well. Like, oh, what's your favorite medical TV show? What's the most accurate one? Because my answer is always Scrubs. I'm like, Scrubs to me seemed like, while it's supposed to be funny, there are some emotional parts. And I'm like, that kind of sounds like my experience. Yeah, I watched a handful of episodes of that back in the day, but never committed to the full series. That is something that I had heard a lot as well, that that is, you know, higher on the accurate scale. Well before that, you know, other shows like House MD and things like that are just like pretty much total nonsense. And there are some that are even worse than that, for sure. If you're a medical learner, if you're a student, resident, whatever, I wouldn't watch House because I feel like what's going to happen is it's going to, you've got to store some of those memories, some of those ideas in your hippocampus, and then you're going to get on boards or whatever. You've got to get a question. You're like, oh, I remember this from House. And it's like, no, that's wrong. Don't do that. Cannot confirm the veracity of what happened in House. Yeah. Not how rounds go. I don't send my interns to break into people's houses. They don't do every specialty by themselves. I did a few B&Es near my intern year and I, you know. Yeah, right. No, if you're an LEO, I did not. Yeah. Okay. Well, this brings me to my favorite part of the mystery case. Like I get to predict whether or not you're going to get this. I think that you're going to get it and I think you're going to get a very accurate, very specific diagnosis, which is what I'm looking for, something specific. Wow. Okay. And the reason why is going to be purely based on contextual factors. Okay. Less medicine than contextual factors. So let's see what happens. Again, I will cue the listeners at home to pause the podcast. If you want to play along, you know, you can come up with your own differential diagnosis, organize your thoughts and see if you're right. You know, a little fact checking here. So you're ready for this, Dr. B? Let's go. Okay. 21-year-old man with no past medical history presents to the emergency department with a five-day history of fevers, headaches, and a one-day history of an itchy rash. He says that his fever has been consistently at, quote, about 104 degrees, taken at home by mouth. But the rash is what prompted him to come into the ER because he's worried. The rash started on his face, then spread to his chest, back, and thighs, sparing the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet. It's also associated with some swelling in the affected areas, most notably around the eyes. His headache that he had is constant, widespread, and does not change with positions and was not associated with any visual changes. He also endorses nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea for five days. He hasn't had any recent travel. He denies any sick contacts and does not remember eating any specific food prior to this episode. He exercises regularly with weights and has been recently trying to lose weight. He takes a multivitamin, vitamin C, magnesium, glucosamine, and fish oil daily. He does not take any medications, and he has no known allergies. He also denies that this has ever happened before. He's currently a student on break from university for the summer. So, this is the point where you would pause the podcast and try to formulate your thoughts, try to describe this patient. It's just summarized like you were presenting to another doctor. So, Dr. Baraki, let's get your thoughts. What's going on with this patient? A lot of things, it sounds like. So, we'll start out with trying to summarize. We have this previously healthy 21-year-old male, which for now we're going to presume that he has a competent immune system. And he's coming in in the summertime with five days of fevers, headaches, a rash, and that is sparing his palms and soles. And the one interesting tidbit that you gave is that he has some swelling around the eyes that kind of just kind of stands out to me as something that's a little bit unusual or unique here. Whereas, in contrast, the nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea are common with so many things that it's a little bit less helpful to try to narrow things down. And so, I'm just going to back up and approach this as a case of, first of all, fever and rash. Fever has an enormous list of possible causes. Fever and rash narrows it a little bit. And then I'm going to narrow it even further by saying this is like acute fever and rash. This has just been for a few days. This has never happened to him before. So, each of these kind of qualifiers that I'm adding to that summary is helping to narrow things a little bit. So, an acute fever and rash in the summertime in a young male. And so, the first thing that you would think of is infections. There are various viruses. I won't go through each one, but a simple example of one would be like any of the mononucleosis type viruses that can cause fevers and rashes in a patient in this demographic. There are also bacterial infections that can do this. Some of which can be super dangerous. Like when people get necrotizing fasciitis and things like that, they can get, you know, skin changes in a fever. They can get really, really ill. And then there are some, you know, less immediately life-threatening bacterial infections. But there's a long list of those as well. And then finally, there are fungal infections that cause fevers and rashes. And I'm also going to set those aside because this is a bit of a rapid presentation for something like that. I will say also in the realm of infection, we have to consider is this patient, again, assumed to be immunocompetent, meaning you have a healthy immune system, or are they immunocompromised in some way. And so I already know that I want an HIV test in this patient. The next thing, big category of things that I think about with fever and rash are exposures like drugs. There are medications, supplements, all sorts of things that if you take, you can have kind of like a hypersensitivity syndrome to it. And drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome, something that to the medical learners in the audience, you may have learned of as like dress syndrome, is something that can cause fever and rash and can cause swelling around the eyes. It's something that kind of fits that. But we were told that he takes no medicines and all of those supplements are pretty benign and I wouldn't expect them to be associated with this. The last couple categories of things that I'm thinking of are cancers that can cause fevers and rashes, mainly like lymphoma or blood-based cancers. This is a bit quick, but some acute leukemias can present pretty dramatically. And then the last category would be autoimmune conditions that can lead to fevers and rashes. The other aspects of this case, he has this kind of like diffuse, you know, headache. He has the nausea. He has the vomiting. He has the diarrhea. These things, unfortunately, are a little bit less useful to really narrow down among those categories because you can have all of those things with any of these different categories of illness. And so at this point, you know, I'm most, I think the first thing I need to make sure is that he doesn't have a life-threatening infection going on and then kind of broaden from there. So what I'm going to be looking for next is what are his vital signs? What does his exam look like? Actually getting some eyes on this rash to see what characteristics it has that might help me to narrow it down. Does it look like a deep purple? You know, does it blanch when I press on it? Is it more of a vasculitic rash? Is it more of a petechial rash? These are, again, just different descriptors or terms that some of the medical learners in the audience might be familiar with that can help to narrow things down. And then from there, we'll get a basic set of labs. And so things that I might look for in the labs, does his white blood cell count really high or low? Are his platelets really low? For example, certain kinds of infections can cause that and give you a rash and fevers. What do his chemistries look like? How's his liver function doing? Things like that that can help me to steer me a little bit further. So that's kind of what I'm thinking so far and where I want to go next in this patient. All right. Well, now that people have turned back on the podcast, now they're reengaged, let's give you a physical exam, some vital signs, and some laboratory tests. So his vitals, we'll start off with that. He does have a fever to 104 degrees Fahrenheit. It's 40 degrees Celsius. He's also tachycardic to 105 beats per minute. He's breathing fine, though, on room air. And blood pressure is normal. On exam, the patient is alert and oriented, though he does appear uncomfortable and anxious. His head and neck exam is significant for swelling of the face, particularly around the eyes. He has no swelling of the lymph nodes. The rash is present and widespread over his face. Cardiovascular exam is significant for tachycardia, but there are no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. Otherwise, it's fine outside of the rapid heart rate. His lungs sound clear, though, again, he's got a little bit... His lungs sound clear, although the rate is a little bit rapid. I wasn't picked up on his vital signs. Neurological exam is grossly normal. He's moving all of his extremities well. Skin exam is significant for large, flat, dusky red rashes on his chest, arms, and upper back. He also has dusky red flat spots on his thighs, on both sides. And the skin is intact, otherwise does not appear to blister upon palpation. No tenderness to palpation either. Now we move on to the laboratory investigations. His blood chemistry is normal, including a normal creatinine and potassium, suggesting normal kidney function. His calcium levels were normal. Magnesium levels were normal. His phosphate was slightly low, 0.66. Normal is 0.8 to 1.5. His creatine kinase was normal. CBC, so complete blood count, was performed, is significant for low platelets, 130 on admission. Normal is 150 to 400. Otherwise, normals. No anemia, no white count, anything like that. Inflammatory markers were elevated, however. CRP, C-reactive protein, was 195. Normal is less than 10. His ESR, so the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, was 17. Normal is less than 15. HIV negative. His autoimmune panel was negative. Blood cultures were negative. Tissue biopsy of one of the rashes culture was negative. His chest x-ray was clear. And a skin biopsy is pending. So if you're playing along at home, you should probably re-listen to that. And then try to come up with some ideas about what could be going on or what you'd want to do next. But I'll turn this over to you, Dr. Baraki. Do you want to summarize our findings and what you're thinking about this patient? Yeah. So that was a lot of information. And that would be a lot more information than you would get up front. Like if I were initially seeing this patient in the ER, there was a lot of stuff there that takes some time to get done, like biopsies and all sorts of other things. So his kidneys seem okay. His muscles aren't breaking down. As I kind of expected, his platelets are a little bit on the low side. And when somebody has this kind of maybe an infectious type syndrome with platelets on the low side, it can happen in just severe infections regardless. But it's also, I guess, a little bit more particularly unique in situations where people get infections from the environment, like from mosquito-borne illnesses or tick-borne illnesses or various things like that, that have a little bit more of a unique propensity to lead to this kind of a fever, rash, and low platelets. I start to think about some of those like arboviruses and some other tick-borne illnesses and things like that. The inflammatory markers are generally unhelpful because he was fevering to 104. So I already knew he had a lot of inflammation going on. It's helpful to know he doesn't have HIV. And so the remaining tests are also, you know, either pending or ruling things out. And it sounds like we have a skin biopsy pending, which may be helpful or may not be helpful. I will say that the low platelets of 130 are not really low enough to cause somebody to bleed into their skin. And so to the extent he has a rash, I'm not really attributing it to platelets of 130. That's not actually that bad. However, it may be early in the phase of this illness such that if left untreated, these platelets might continue to go down further and further and further. And so I'm still in a similar bucket. I mean, if assuming our history was accurate and he is not taking any new medicines that we can rely on to exclude the likelihood of a drug-induced hypersensitivity or one of the kind of severe, what we call severe cutaneous adverse reactions to drugs, like life-threatening skin reactions to drug exposures. And this is a bit fast for some of the cancers. And you told me that we have an autoimmune panel that's negative. I'm just going to assume that that means that he doesn't have an autoimmune condition because there's not one autoimmune panel. There's a lot of different conditions that can be tested for. But let's set autoimmune stuff aside for now. Then I'm back into the infectious bucket and back with infections presenting this way, this acutely with this overall syndrome. I'm thinking viruses first and bacteria second, even though in terms of the morbidity or the danger, I have to think about bacteria first and viruses second, mainly because bacteria can be treated with antibiotics, which this patient would very likely be receiving up front. So among those organisms, I would be sending off some testing for some of those things to include some of the mononucleosis type viruses, as well as in the bacterial category, getting things like blood cultures and starting doing a blood smear and starting some what we'll call empiric or best guess antibiotics for some of the more dangerous infections. So this patient will get pretty broad spectrum antibiotics, as well as a more unique one for some of these kind of bacteria that we get from the environment, from tick-borne infections, things like that, with doxycycline to cover some of the riskier things that can come from ticks like Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever and some other similar infections like that that can cause fever and rash and swelling around the eyes and things like that. So that's kind of where I'm at next. Okay. I can give you some answers, but some stuff is happening with this patient. So, yep, his Epstein-Barr, EBV, monospot came back negative, blood culture, pan-negative. His platelets, however, started dropping. They went down to 100 about 12 hours after presenting to the emergency room. His potassium also went up to 5.9, and his CK is rising now over 250. His temperature also persisted despite being given an antipyretic medication. He's now at 105 degrees Fahrenheit, and his tachycardia also persisted despite being given fluids. The patient also said, hey, I'm not sure if this is useful, but I have been taking this weight loss supplement. I don't know what's in it. That might be helpful. A skin punch biopsy did come back, and it showed an inflammatory infiltrate into the dermis, underneath the skin, and separation of the top layer of skin, that's the stratum corneum, with some eosinophils underneath. So the patient was admitted to the ICU because they thought, hey, man, this guy's got hyperthermia. And so they put some cooling blankets on him. They gave him some dantrolene. This is usually given to folks with malignant hyperthermia. It's a rare reaction to general anesthesia, but they gave him some of that. And they continued to give him fluids and wanted to monitor this individual. All right. So his fever persisted to a max of 106 degrees during hospital day one. And the areas of the rash became more dusky during the same time with some mild peeling. Unfortunately, at this particular time, that is all the information that I have to give you. If you ask me questions, I may be able to provide you some answers for you to generate a diagnosis. But if you're playing along at home, that is all the information that you have and see if you can come up with a diagnosis. Yeah. So it sounds like we did not, in fact, get a complete exposure history. And he reveals to us that he's been taking this weight loss supplement, which is something that I'm actually quite concerned about. You know, this persistence of temperature, like if it's just like 104 nonstop and then rising up to 106 just continuously, that's actually not typical for most infections. That's a higher than we see with most infections. And when I see most infections that cause fever, the fever is not constant. Usually it kind of ebbs and flows. It relapses and remits. You know, you have this temperature that goes up and then you have a bunch of chills and cold sweats and then it breaks and then it goes up again. That's more often the pattern that you'll tend to see. And again, it does not tend to get this high. So you're right that in the realm, you know, that having an elevated temperature is not the same thing as a fever. A fever is one cause, and that's a cause of elevation in temperature that's due to some complicated cytokine signaling in the hypothalamus. We'll set that nerdy stuff aside. But hyperthermia relates to a problem of either too much heat generation, which can happen, for example, when patients have a lot of muscular rigidity, if they're having certain types of drug reactions or withdrawals and things like that. Catatonia, like there's various other situations where, you know, your muscles are, you're basically working out even though you're not working out and you are generating some more heat than you can dissipate. Or on the other hand, whatever heat you are generating, you are in an environment perhaps that leaves you unable to dissipate it. And that's how like heat stroke happens, for example, when people are in hot, humid environments, you can end up hyperthermic just because you can't dissipate the heat effectively. And so that's all that's very different than fever, which takes you in a different direction kind of diagnostically. So I would still be, you know, treating this patient as if he has one of these life-threatening infections. Some of the things that you told me that he is developing, like you can have infections that also, you know, lead to worsening platelet counts, that can lead to potassiums rising, that can lead CKs to rise. There are certain infections that can actually cause rhabdomyolysis, like mycoplasma, leptospirosis, listeria, a bunch of different kind of unusual infections can lead to rhabdomyolysis. And so those are still on my, you know, list. I'm still kind of covering for them with the antibiotics that I'm giving this patient. But at the same time, this persistent, extremely high temperature and some of these other developments are, including the history that was added, are pulling me a little bit back into that drug exposure category that I mentioned kind of at the outset. We had things like infections. We had drugs. We had cancers and autoimmune conditions that can lead to this combination of fever and rash. And I had mentioned drug-induced hypersensitivity or sometimes known as DRESS syndrome as one form of one of these kind of drug reactions. There are various others to include things like Steven Johnson syndrome, something called toxic epidermal necrolysis, and a bunch of other skin emergencies that can happen where your skin basically sloughs off. And you hinted at some of this in that skin biopsy finding where there was some epidermal detachment. And, you know, we could get into the nuances of, like, which layer is detaching from which to, you know, what we're going to call this. There are other, like, skin blistering diseases, which don't seem like that's exactly what's going on here. But that's, you know, at the moment what I'm most concerned about is a severe, what we'll call a severe cutaneous adverse reaction potentially to this exposure. So I really would like to, in addition to completing this infectious, you know, keeping that covered, A, try to get at what is in that supplement that he's taking and start looking that up to see what else is known about it and what it can cause. And then also, you know, keeping a very close eye on this patient's exam. And because, you know, for example, if you start to feel their skin sloughing off, if you start to feel the accumulation of, like, gas in the skin, things like that, if it starts to feel like Rice Krispies under there, they might need emergency surgery to, you know, debride, you know, dead tissue or something like that that could be going on in there. So there would be surgeons potentially involved in this case as well. So that's kind of where I'm at at the moment. I'm treating this patient as if he has an infection while getting to the bottom of that drug exposure, getting some surgeons involved, examining his skin closely and seeing if he needs any kind of emergency surgery while trying to cool him at the same time. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll tell you before I force you to come up with a diagnosis, just because we're playing this game here, infectious workup, whatever you want to order, it's all negative. It is completely stone cold negative. If you were to measure this individual's metabolic rate, he would be in a state of hypermetabolism, so elevated metabolic rate, somewhere between 30 and 50 percent higher than normal, which, you know, it's not necessarily unusual for an infection. But, you know, you know that this individual does not have an infection. Unfortunately, all he can tell you about the supplement that he was taking is that the name of it was Dynosin. And unfortunately, your Internet is down. So you can't actually Google this. This requires some fun to knowledge stuff. So now I ask you, Dr. Baraki, what is your final diagnosis for this patient? Yeah. So to be clear, you know, I know that in this podcast mystery case land, you are often doing stuff within the realm of like health and fitness and whatnot. In real life, we never know that our patient is coming in with a fitness related complication. And so even though we're playing this game, I'm actually explaining it in the exact way that I would be thinking about this in real life. Right. And so I know that you are very unlikely to be bringing me a case of like acute leptospirosis or one of these other esoteric infections, unless there was some cool fitness story related to like this person was, you know, spelunking in Hawaii and, you know, came down with that kind of an infection. And this is very likely to be a case of him using dinitrophenol or what's called a mitochondrial uncoupler. And this is something that is used for weight loss. And it leads to just uncontrolled heat generation because it interferes with some details of metabolism that I'll that I assume you are going to get into. So I'll leave that for you here shortly. And so, yeah, this is a super, super dangerous situation. So it's basically a method of weight loss that just lets your body operate like a furnace and burn itself, burn itself out to try to burn as much energy. But it can lead to this life threatening hyperthermia. So I suspect that this is a case of dinitrophenol toxicity. Yes. And in fact, this patient was found to have been using dinitrophenol 2 for dinitrophenol, also known as DNP, for eight days prior to the start of his symptoms. He subsequently stopped once he started developing the rash. But the fevers, headaches, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea all got worse. And that's why he ended up coming into the hospital. He was admitted to the ICU for this hyperthermia treatment, which resolved over the next 24 hours, whereas the rash took another three days. To clear up. Super interesting case because this was really a cutaneous manifestation. So a skin manifestation of DNP intoxication, whereas normally people come in with basically cardiovascular collapse, you know, rapid heart rate and hyperthermia. And then, you know, that's kind of a giveaway, especially if you know what the patient has taken. Unfortunately, people don't always relate their entire histories, which is a feature of actual clinical medicine. But, yeah, they remarked in the paper that, you know, the patient didn't report this. And so the skin findings actually took them down an entire another sort of pathway, which is why they published this case report, because this has only been reported a handful of times in the literature, sort of cutaneous exposure to this. One other case, these people were disposing of bags that had previously been containing DNP. They were empty, but they were handling them without any sort of protection. But they were barefoot, no gloves, no mask, no nothing. And effectively, they came into the hospital with yellow, effective skin outside of their palms and soles, which were blackened, effectively from some sort of like necrosis starting to set in. And ultimately, those were two fatal cases of sort of cutaneous related exposure to DNP. They weren't taking it for weight loss. They were just handling empty bags, which was pretty interesting. Yeah, my understanding, if I'm recalling this correctly, because I've heard of several other cases of DNP toxicity, and it might have been from that other podcast that I've referenced before, the Poison Lab, where I heard a case about DNP leading to, I think it was a fatality, unfortunately. And one of the things that it apparently causes, if I'm recalling this correctly, is that it can lead to like a yellowing of like body fluids. And that was something that they found on autopsy. And that was one of the clues for them. So that was one of the giveaways in that case. But yeah, you're right. I do not associate skin reactions with this. So that was a new manifestation. I think that if you had taken the skin reaction, the rash out of this case, it might have actually been easier for me to get there. But the rash just actually made, I mean, all those infections can cause all of this kind of stuff as well. And especially with the low platelets and all this, but the temperature was just way too high for most of those things. And so, yeah, that's a, this is a unique case. Thanks for bringing it. Yeah. If the temperature would have been like 111, for example, or even higher than this, then at that point, you're like, oh, it's not a fever. Yeah, correct. I wouldn't have been entertaining infection in that, in that scenario. It's a pretty interesting case. And also his, his, you know, his chemist blood chemistry, for example, is normal. You'd be expecting hyperkalemia. You'd be expecting end organ damage. So like elevated creatinine, his kidneys are pickled, you know, liver functions should be off. But yeah, it was a weird presentation, which was why I was like, the only way you're going to get this is from contextual factors. Yeah. No, that was a great one. Yeah. Let's talk about DNP. Let's nerd out a little bit here. So dinitrophenol was a chemical originally used to make explosives in World War I, but it has been used as a dye, as a wood preservative, as a herbicide, and even as a way to develop photographs. As far as the history of dinitrophenol, DNP, what came to the attention of French health officials that there may be some toxicity there during World War I, when French factory workers who were making explosives for the war became ill and in some cases died. This acute intoxication that they report in 1919, by the way, was characterized by high fever, sweating, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, et cetera, as the initial symptoms. But if for the individuals who did not actually progress to fatal fatality, there was 36 fatalities in this case report, they call that subacute intoxication. And the main side effect of that was weight loss. So subsequently, it was investigated as a weight loss drug in the 1930s at Stanford. Shout out to Stanford for doing this research. It was found to have a very small therapeutic window for dosing. And in fact, this paper in the 1930s said the margin between febrile and fatal dose is very narrow. So subjects averaged about a 20-pound weight loss in 10 weeks in this initial study from Stanford. And the author of that said without side effects, which is interesting because then what happened, more people started using it. At the time, the FDA had sort of limited capacity to actually remove things from the market or stop things from coming to the market. So it was estimated that about 100,000 Americans ended up taking this medication in the 1930s, and only three fatalities were initially reported when it came to market. There were some rumblings amongst practicing physicians of side effects like hyperthermia, tachycardia, and hypotension. One of the ways you deal with elevated temperature is your blood vessels dilate. And so you can get hypotension, low blood pressure. And there's other research groups outside of Stanford reporting little additional weight loss with DNP, but problems with the liver, the heart, and muscle toxicity, and even vision loss. One ophthalmologist in San Francisco apparently noted that he estimates about 2,500 Americans may have lost their vision due to what he called dinitrophenol cataracts, which I thought was interesting. In any case, the American Medical Association's Council on Chemistry and Pharmacy rejected DNP in 1935. Basically, they said, look, you can't use this. It's too toxic. But because, again, the FDA had limited potential, limited capacity to remove it from market, people kept using it. And in fact, an agent containing DNP was released on the market called Formula 281. And later, they had a second sort of version of this that had a chemical cousin of DNP called dinitrocressol, which is just a different type of the same thing. The products labeling for that second generation was, quote, now literally burning the fat away, which is pretty accurate for how this thing works. Yeah. So basically, the reason why the FDA was so hamstrung about not being able to remove this from the market was because the original sort of law from 1906 said that, look, we can only regulate drugs that are designed to cure a disease. And at the time, obesity was just a cosmetic issue so that this wasn't a drug. This was just a supplement, effectively. But in 1938, there was some new legislation passed, and the FDA declared DNP was too toxic to use under any circumstance due to intoxication cases and such. And by 1940, apparently, all cases of intoxication and sales of DNP stopped. 1940. Yeah, just turn the corner. There's an interesting case in the 1980s down in your neck of the woods. So in Texas, the 1980s, this doctor, Dr. Paczynski, he was operating a slew of weight loss and smoking cessation clinics, and he was giving his weight loss patients DNP under the name Myctal. And he treated about 14,000 patients in this initial case. Some started having side effects, including hyperthermia, hypotension, tachycardia, et cetera, and then a person actually died. And subsequently, the medical board investigated him. He was fined and prohibited from using DNP further, so basically a slap on the wrist. But he kept using it. He kept using it and ultimately went to jail for 11 years for submitting fraudulent insurance claims and using DNP. The story gets weirder because in prison, he met a guy and tried to set up a company to open cancer treatment clinics in Europe to use DNP to treat cancer. It's the ivermectin of the 1930s. Yeah, well, this was 1980s at this point. So this is early 2000s. The guy goes, yeah, faces trial again and goes to jail again for 11 years this time. So I've linked the actual case notes in the show description below because it's super interesting how this guy like ended up going to prison twice for about a decade each time. In any case, so that was 1980s. And you're like, look, Jordan, why are you talking about this now? Nobody's using this stuff. But they are. Due largely to unopposed advertising and access via the internet, mostly bodybuilders who are trying to lose weight have been using DNP again. There's been a sort of a comeback, a resurgence. Not a huge one, but a resurgence nonetheless. There's been about 204 cases of DNP toxicity reported to UK and US poison centers in the last 10 years. And that number has been increasing. As far as the mechanism of action, this is where we get to really nerd out. This is super interesting to me. If you're not interested in human physiology, you can just click off like that. That's fine. But this is interesting to me. So, yeah, you described it perfectly. DNP uncouples metabolism, basically. So, through this process of oxidative phosphorylation, that's the process that we use to get energy from breaking down like carbohydrates and fats takes place in the mitochondria. Well, DNP uncouples that. Basically, the metabolism of carbs and fat to ultimately create ATP, that is uncoupled. And so, instead of making ATP and storing energy that way, you just release it as heat. And so, you release all of this heat and all metabolic processes are affected because they all use energy. And, yeah, you produce a ton of heat and you can get this crazy increase in your body temperature. And the body tries to dissipate that via vasodilation. And because your blood vessels then are so large, not as much blood flow goes to all these organs. And so, you get all this end organ damage. So, toxicity of DNP, yeah, as I mentioned, there's a small margin between the beneficial effects, if you can call them that, and the toxic effects of DNP. In fact, the sort of therapeutic window is – it overlaps almost perfectly with the dose used for intentional suicides through DNP, which also seems like a terrible way to go. Just – I'm not recommending. I just feel like probably not the thing to choose. Interestingly, based on this case, skin rash is like the most common reported like nonfatal side effect here. A large proportion of the studies done in the 1930s reported that a lot of the patients had skin rashes. And the skin, as you mentioned, sometimes turns yellow. The chemical is actually this yellow crystalline powder. And so, on autopsy, you see yellowing of the skin, yellowing of some of the organs. And a lot of people sort of think this is jaundice because there's like liver damage, you know, at end of life. But because it's so fast, you know, the liver toxicity, it's probably not jaundice. You don't have enough time to like get jaundiced. It's just that the chemical itself is yellow, which is interesting. Other side effects that you get, some toxic effects, peripheral neuritis, often affecting the hands and feet. And you get some skin changes there. But the classic sort of complex presentation is hyperthermia, so high temperature, tachycardia, elevated heart rate, diaphoresis, and tachypnea. People have rapid respiratory rates and they're kind of out of it because, again, they're trying to figure out how do I adapt to this crazy high metabolism, sweating their, you know, their guts out and trying to figure out a way to lower their temperature. They just can't. And so death is unfortunately common. It's usually secondary to this massive cardiovascular collapse. And the one of the more interesting things on a lot of the autopsy reports or medical reports is that the rigor mortis sets in way faster than normal, probably due to this hypermetabolic rate. Effectively, you have less ATP on board. You've been using it all up. And so you just rigor mortis like almost immediately after you're pronounced. Yeah, not just using it all up, but you've uncoupled. So you're making less of it probably. Right. I mean, this just kind of reminds me in an adjacent way to when, you know, we've heard people say before asking about ways to like boost their immune system. And we're like, well, careful what you ask for. If you boost it too much, that's called an autoimmune disease. How to what if what if I really want to boost my metabolism? Careful what you ask for. If you boost a little too much, you can dive very easily through a mechanism like this one. Yeah. Yeah. So nowadays, DNP is mostly sold over the Internet. There was actually there was a sort of review of the history of DNP that I've linked in the show notes as well. As of 2011, there was a website that was called by it was called by DNP dot com. It's like straight up. Straight up. Yeah. Not even hiding it. To be fair, that website is no longer in use. So the domain is available for anybody out there. But yeah, it's called either Dinosin, Dinox, Sulfur Black, Nitrofin, Aldafin, Chemox or DNP. And again, it's a yellow crystalline powder has a sweet, musty odor, which those two words together don't really make sense to me. Sweet and musty. Yeah. But hey, there you go. And yeah, the biggest issue is that people can buy this stuff online in bulk quantities. And I don't know how many of these people buying that have extensive history in chemistry. And so dosing, again, is very, very difficult to do to avoid toxic side effects, which is why there's so many case reports on DNP intoxication. The management stuff. So what do you do if you're a clinician? You see somebody with DNP toxicity or you suspect that? Well, there's no specific antidote for this. And it requires this high level of clinical suspicion. Again, you would have had to if he told you at the outset, yeah, by the way, I've been taking this weight loss supplement. I think it's got DNP or something in it. I don't know what that is, but I've been taking it. Then you would have gone down a completely different pathway. And so, yeah, kind of interesting. As far as patients who have acutely overdosed, they require observation for at least 12 hours, according to most of the sources that I checked out. No patient has been recorded to be symptomatic beyond 10 hours after an acute overdose. If somebody accidentally ingests it and it's within an hour, there's been some thought to do activated charcoal to make people throw it back up or in whole bowel irrigation, which sounds unpleasant. But I guess better than the alternative. If somebody is beyond that sort of timeframe, though, supportive care is kind of the management strategy. So seizures are common here. And so you would control those with benzodiazepines. Dizepines using fluids for resuscitation, particularly cooled fluids because, again, hyperthermia. Cooling blankets, ice baths can be used. Dantrolene has no effect really evidence on its use, but it's something that's been used in malignant hyperthermia. So I think people give it anyway. There's also been a thought to actually dialyze these patients to try to, like, exchange some of this blood. But, again, all of this stuff is like, we tried it and the patient lived. So I don't know. Have you ever seen a DNP intoxication in your years? No. No, I have not. I've seen plenty of other drug and supplement-related toxicities, but not DNP, fortunately. And if I did, yeah, there would be clinical toxicologists involved either if I had access to one at the institution or via poison control. And these patients would probably, especially if they were that hyperthermic, they would be in an intensive care unit setting as well. Yeah. Yeah. The interesting thing here, like, you know, the weight loss stuff, there's been some reports of, like, one and a half kilos per week, which is certainly significant. But that doesn't, you can't run this stuff for very long, right? And so if you're just taking it for, like, recreational use, which we would 10 out of 10 recommend against, like, don't do that. But you compare that to, like, terzepatide. Sure. You know, seems to be, like, a whole lot safer and potentially even more effective without some of these side effects. Can you imagine trying to train while on DNP? Like, you're going into the gym. You're 101 degrees, right? And you're not making ATP. Yeah, yeah. You're tachycardic a little bit. You know, you're breathing rapidly and you're like, man, I don't feel so good. Oh, yeah. By the way, you got to squat. Right. No way. Yeah. Terrible idea. In general, our methods for pharmacologically, you know, facilitated weight loss, much more effective when working on the appetite side of the spectrum than on the energy expenditure side of the spectrum. Yeah. Yeah, for sure. All right. Interesting case. So that wraps up this January mystery case on DNP. Shout out to Dr. Austin Baraki for not only spending his time here, but getting the right diagnosis. We're going to help him along a little bit, but I'll give it to you on this one. Before you guys go anywhere, please leave us a five-star rating and a review. It really helps drive traffic to our podcast so we can keep bringing you all the latest nuance in health and fitness. From everyone here at Barbell Medicine, I'm Dr. Jordan Feigenbaum. We'll catch you next week and every week right here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Thank you. We'll be right back.