 all right, all right, what's up everybody, welcome back to the barbell medicine podcast, I think this episode 22, I'm joined as always with Dr. Austin Baraki, Austin, what's going on buddy? Hey man, I'm doing all right, what's going on with you? It's another day in life, getting ready to go down under and dropkick a kangaroo. Nice, nice, nice. Nice. We've had some big developments recently coming out in terms of announcements that we made, things like that. Oh yeah, so guided programming, yeah, we just put this in the newsletter, so when you're hearing this, it's live, it's on the website, definitely put that in the show notes in the description below. Austin, so what's the purpose, you want to tell us the purpose of the guided programming thing, take people through a little bit like why we did this? So, I mean, the beauty of what we do with novices is that it's nice, it's simple, it's basic, it works for a very large, you know, proportion of people who are getting started with this stuff, but it's temporary. It doesn't unfortunately work forever, otherwise we'd all be squatting like 3 or 4,000 pounds by now. So, a lot of people are intimidated and don't know exactly how to approach the post-novice phase of training. And so, there are multiple options out there for people to approach that. And so, you know, we have previously done the templates, which are an option that provides people with some guidance and some, you know, an approach to post-novice training that is relatively low cost, accessible from that standpoint. But, of course, it doesn't come with regular contact with a coach for guidance over the period of time that you're doing it. And then at the other end of the spectrum, we have one-on-one coaching that we all do where we're in near constant contact with a lot of our trainees, writing their programming week to week or month to month, doing regular form checks with all of them and things like that. But that's obviously on the other end of the, you know, cost spectrum that some people are not unfortunately able to do. So, we wanted to do something kind of in between to help people out with kind of a long-term programming option that lasts longer than, say, 8, 12 weeks. And that allows them with somewhat more regular contact with a coach that we'll be able to provide. Basically, the idea being that people will sign up and kind of answer some questions that help us stratify them into various training groups. Based on that, they'll be placed on a specific training group that's kind of generally in their demographic and their level of training advancement. And they'll get ongoing programming over the long term. They'll be kind of within their group. They'll have access to regular form checks and contact with coaches and things like that. The big difference between it and one-on-one coaching is that they don't have, again, one-on-one kind of specific individualized programming that more advanced lifters tend to benefit from. No, so, yeah, it's a continuum. And I think that's what you're saying. On the one end, you have the templates, which are very general, relatively inexpensive, but still high quality for post-novus programming. So you've been training for a few months. You've exhausted the novice linear progression. You're not interested in wasting the next year of your life resetting 5% and 10% at a time and not making any progress. So then you need an option or potentially your goals change. And so we have that. On the other end of the spectrum, you have the one-on-one coaching, just very boutique, very individualized. There's a lot of contact with your coach directly. And, unfortunately, that isn't possible for a lot of people, not just from a financial standpoint, but just a time commitment, you know? If you're always traveling and maybe you're not available to actually send in check-ins and regular form checks and stuff like that, so you need something in the middle. And so we have this big gray zone, and I felt like that was a pretty good market for us to get into. So guided programming is going to start. The cool thing is we're working with some very smart folks for data collection as far as getting feedback on what we're actually putting out there and then being able to retool it every time a new wave starts so we learn more from our audience, from our clients. And I think the community thing is going to be cool, too. You know, you get a couple hundred people in that group all talking about strength training and resistance training, and it's going to be a cool concept, I think. Yeah, I agree. Excited to get it started. And so that's, as you mentioned, it's going to be getting started kind of in waves. So people who kind of sign up together, they'll be grouped into a cohort that kind of starts at the same time, and then what we learn from them can then be applied to the next wave that gets started at some later date and so on. Right. Other thing we came out with, the press template. So the Internet wants to know, Austin, what is your best press? And I keep saying it's 225. Is it more than that? Yeah, no, I press 225. I don't do much with the press. Right, right, right. It was like the minimum baseline that I had to get to to say, okay, I have done this before. Yeah, and 225 is nothing to sneeze at. That's, you know, 25 pounds over your body weight on any given day, and you don't specifically train for the press, and right now you have one functioning elbow. Yeah. Yeah, so that's pretty good. You know, the thing was is there's been a lot of talk and almost mysticism about, oh, how do you get the press to go up? And, you know, I felt like we've made some really good strides towards figuring out how to actually program the press, as evidenced by the results that not only I've gotten, but, like, Alan's gotten. Yeah, I put, like, 40 pounds on Alan's press in a few months, which was, like, I was even surprised. I was like, damn, he's responding really well to this stuff. Yeah, same. And, you know, it's the same thing. So my best press as of, well, a year ago was, like, 265. 265. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, 264, and then I started kind of playing with the press a little more, and it went up to 275, and then I pressed 295 in training, and, yeah, anyway. So the press template's cool. It's out there. You're definitely still going to train the squat and the deadlift hard. It's really perfect if you're going to a USSF meet or you really just want to work on the press. It's not going to – it's not like all you're doing is pressing. It's not that small of pressing. We had an alternate name for the program. It was going to be the California Method. They thought California would tax us too much. Okay, so I think that's it for, like, announcements. Also, should we start calling you Mr. 605? Well, so I'm currently in a peaking block, and so for the past 12 weeks of me doing singles on my way to this peaking block, my squat single each week has gone up by a little bit, and so 605 was last week. I still have three weeks left, so I'm going to, you know, see what else – I mean, I expect there's more in the tank. I mean, look, if I could – it really looked like I could have tripled 590, which would be insane, but it tells me that there's a whole lot more than 605 there, so I just need to, you know, do it. Yeah, one interesting thing. So I have confidence in you, and my best guess is that on your best day, under the best circumstances, with the optimal level of motivation, you could go out and squat 635, there's a gun to your head. But I'm serious. I mean, legitimately, look, if you tripled 585 on your deadlift prior to you pulling 665, you know, low 665, you would have said, well, I could deadlift 635. Like, no doubt in your brain. Right, right. No doubt. Yeah. But so I think if we agree that 590 was triplable, which I do, then 635 should be fine. If you don't squat 635, then – I lose all credibility instantly. No, it's not credibility. It's just that it tells you something. It tells you a few things. It tells you that perhaps the peaking block, you know, it gives you information about the length of the peaking block and perhaps your efficiency on the squat. Yeah. So as a little interesting aside, which does not have to do with what we're talking about today, but I still find it very interesting to discuss, if you want to get better at singles because you're either a powerlifter, you're going to a meet, or that's what holds value in your training. And I can make the argument that even if you're not a competitive powerlifter, that prioritizing singles is useful at times because it's probably the most accurate information you can get. It's less subject to noise from other stuff. Like a 5RM has multiple different components that contribute to actually generating a 5RM. That's not just pure strength, whereas a 1RM is more pure strength. If you want to get better at singles, you have to practice singles. So a program that's designed to get you stronger, that is lacking regular practice, regular exposure to singles, is not a good program unless you're a novice, in which case this whole conversation doesn't really apply to you. But just taking your heavy set of 5 up on a weekly basis doesn't tell me enough about your strength improvement when it comes to a 1RM. Well, particularly over a short term, if you see changes of a 5RM over a short term. I mean, obviously over a long term, if you're working sets of 5, go from 85 to 275, like you got a lot stronger. But over the course of, say, three weeks or something like that, if they went up five pounds at a time, again, that can be within kind of the margin of performance fluctuation week to week, and it's harder to interpret than something like a single. Yep. And so that was actually interesting when we were talking about doing this sort of strength training registry, like getting data and trying to really parse it out. So one of the main arguments that we got both at large, like from people on the Internet, and then within our own peer group was that you can't really use the three sets of 5 as a validated way to assess initial levels of strength. So, for instance, you have a person come in on the very first session of the starting strength novice linear progression, and you start them at 85 pounds for three sets of 5. Well, you're taking in a bunch of subjective stuff like, oh, this is where their form was still good and it was hard. And it doesn't mean that you cannot try to validate that method, but there's a lot of noise there too, right? And again, what I mean by that is perhaps if you, you know, maybe they could have done 90 pounds or 95 pounds for three sets of 5. You don't really know what their absolute strength was, and so it's not perfect. And so people, you know, it's hard to say. If your lift, for instance, if you did 550 for a set of 5, and then sometime later you did 575 for a triple, okay? I actually don't know if that's, you got stronger, right? Because the goalposts have changed, and that's an even tighter example of the problem with assessing strength gain from the beginning of the novice progression to the end. Like, you have somebody who's well-trained, who's, you know, doing a maximal set of rep, you know, a rep effort, and you still don't know. It's like 550 for 5 is about the same to me as 575 for a triple, which is about the same as like 610 for a single, you know? Like, that's all the same. So if on week 1 you did 550 for 5, and then week 2 you did 575 for 3, and then week 3 you did 605 or 610 for a single, you didn't get any stronger over 3 weeks. You just changed the goalposts. Yeah. Whereas on the novice progression, if you had somebody who on day 1 they did 85 for 3 sets of 5, and then they did, you know, a week later they did 95 for 3 sets of 5, I actually don't know if they got stronger within that period of time. I don't know. Even back when there was this whole, there was the whole argument, and they were talking, you know, Rip was talking about super compensation and all this kind of stuff, and they draw kind of the adaptation curve with a bunch of like, they called it like fuzz around the line of performance. And that falls squarely within that kind of line of, you know, the error bar around your kind of absolute level of performance at any given time. Yeah. Most people at the beginning, they could do 5 more pounds on day 1, because if they can't do 5 more pounds on day 1, then the coach who set that weight on their back messed up. Sorry. I just got a really long Instagram question. So I'm not going to answer him, but we can answer it here on the podcast, because people want to know. So just as an aside. There you go. Take it away. Texting or, sorry, just as an aside, like DMing somebody who's not your coach, who doesn't know a lot about you and your training history, a long-winded question about your training, is difficult to deal with as a coach. I want to know so many more things, but then I realize that I have other clients that I have responsibilities towards, so it's difficult. So, hey, Jordan, I went through the bridge. On the program, you described GPP days. On those days, you mentioned cardio, like rowing or assault bike. My gym doesn't have a prowler, rowing machine, or an assault bike. It has a treadmill, stair machine, bicycles, and elliptical. Which one would you suggest? Any of them. Doesn't matter. In general, I don't like running for people who aren't good runners, because there's a lot of ground reactive force, and it can potentially be a big stress, but it doesn't matter. Question two. This is a multi-part question. It looks like four questions. Never in the book you mention Pendlay Rose. You mention, is Barbell Rose? And I know these two are not the same. They are. One just has an eponym, and the other doesn't. So, they're the same. Number three. If it was a typing mistake when you wrote the file, which happens, and I don't blame you or Austin, on the Pendlay Barbell Rose, do I do both the eccentric and concentric part of the lift, or only the concentric? I challenge you to do a concentric-only row. Eccentric down to the floor. Like a tempo row. I'm just saying. Yeah, well, I'm just saying. It's like doing a concentric-only deadlift. Which you could, you just drop it. So. I know the bar has to start off. Oh, another row question. I know the bar has to start. Another row question. I know the bar has to start off the ground after each rep. Do I start again? Or the bar never touches the ground until the set is finished? It's a row. It starts on the ground. Period. Boom. Great. There you go. Well, so how many DMs do you get a day? Fifteen. How many of them are from your clients? Oh, I wasn't counting. What's from my clients? Oh, right. Okay. So, 15 non-client DMs. How many of those questions do you think are better suited for the forum? Which is at barbellmedicine.com backslash forum. Most of them. Yes. Yeah. And so, the thing is, you're asking effectively, you know, for advice. Which is totally fine. That's why we're here. You know, part of our thing is being a good resource for folks. It's just that, instead of it, if we answer one person, that's a certain time commitment compared to answering many people. So, I'll just direct everyone to the forum. It's not, I don't mean stay out of our DMs. What I mean is, we can better serve the community if we get to answer these. Yeah. Yeah. If you ask on the forum. So, hey. Go to the forum. Hang out there. We'll help you guys. And then Austin and I won't, you know, have a cerebrovascular accident when people ask us, what shoes are you wearing? Speaking of, what shoes are you wearing right now? I wasn't counting DN specifically asking me what shoes I'm wearing, but that's another 15. Yeah, yeah. What shoes are you wearing right now? Do you have shoes on? I don't have shoes on right now. Yeah, attaboy. I got sliders. All right. So, today we're going to talk about NSAIDs. NSAIDs, standing for non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. So, the non-steroid steroid podcast. Right, exactly. Our views are going down to five. So, all right. Let's start with what are NSAIDs? Austin, you want to take us through just a brief overview of what NSAIDs actually are? Yeah, so basically they are kind of generally considered to be anti-inflammatory drugs in nature. They're used a lot for analgesic effect or for pain-relieving effects. And so, physiologically, kind of inflammation is a super complex process. There's tons of, you know, chemical messengers that go on, cytokines, all kinds of inflammatory molecules. Cellular inflammation gets involved a lot of the time. There's tons and tons and parts of it, but there are tons and tons of parts to it. But one pathway in particular is one that takes a molecule called arachidonic acid and then it converts it through a series of enzymatic reactions into a set, into any one of a set of kind of molecular signaling molecules called prostaglandins, among other things. And so, these prostaglandin molecules, they have lots of different functions. They can kind of contribute towards kind of recruiting inflammatory cells to the area. It can sensitize, you know, nervous tissue and I won't say cause pain because they don't do that because pain, as we know, is more complicated than that. But they can kind of contribute to nociception, which can then be interpreted as pain. Nociception? Is this like nocebo? No, no, no, no. They're the same. No, no, no. It just creates a noxious stimulus at the level of the tissue. It can contribute to generating fevers, lots of other things. And so, you know, a lot of people, when they think about anti-inflammatories, they'll commonly hear about or get prescribed something like prednisone, which interferes in this process kind of at an earlier stage because that's a corticosteroid. So that's a steroid molecule that acts to have anti-inflammatory effects as well as tons of other both beneficial in some circumstances and harmful effects in others. But beyond the steroid anti-inflammatories being glucocorticoids or corticosteroids, whatever you want to call it, there's this next step in the process, which is induced by an enzyme called cyclooxygenase or COX-COX. There's COX-1 and COX-2 kind of distributed throughout the body. And so this particular enzyme is what converts some of the byproducts of that initial kind of arachidonic acid conversion into then things like prostaglandins and some other molecules that like induce clotting and some other things like that. And so this is all kind of beneficial stuff in the setting of your body kind of generating an inflammatory response to, say, heal a tissue insult or something like that. Like if you get stabbed in the thigh or something like that, you'll have some local inflammation to kind of kickstart the healing process and immune cells will come in, clean up the mess, things like that. I always like to think about the immune cells like fighting the good fight, like the Calvary call that goes off, like it's a trumpet. And then, you know, here we come to save the day. Until you have an autoimmune disease, then they're all psychotic and going crazy and inappropriately doing their thing, you know? Well, that's like the South in the American Revolution. I mean, that's the way, again, it's the way I conceptualize it. Yes, attacking itself and, you know, a lot of pride, but not, you know. We just lost the last four viewers. So given the extensive amount of, you know, side effects, I won't say side effects, just adverse effects to taking things like corticosteroids like prednisone just for anti-inflammatory purposes, particularly over the long term, we have this other kind of option that's a non-steroid anti-inflammatory. And that's what NSAID stands for, non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs. And there's a whole big family of them. There are oral versions. There are topical versions. There are injectable versions, both intramuscular and IV versions of NSAIDs that are used in all kinds of different scenarios. And so they inhibit this COX enzyme, prevent you from producing these prostaglandin molecules and thereby lower inflammation, reduce the nociception that can then be, you know, contribute to pain. They can reduce fevers. So they have what's called an antipyretic effect, reducing body temperature in the setting of a fever that you might have for whatever reason. And so, you know, they're used very commonly for pain. And given what we talked about previously about pain, particularly in the context of lifting and training, they're used a lot by lifters. And so that's why we thought it'd be a relevant topic to talk about, to kind of bust some myths and talk about where they might be useful, more useful, less useful, and precautions and things like that. Yeah. And I think the other interesting thing that's happened recently in our sort of strength and conditioning field, particularly the CrossFit world, is that people have been just, you know, shitting all over NSAIDs like, they're going to do bad things to you and decreasing the inflammation or even using ice. Like, so, like, on a spectrum of, like, anti-inflammatory sort of things, like, ice is, like, the lowest common denominator. Yeah. You know, Kelly Starrett famously, and I say famously because that YouTube video has gotten, you know, millions of views in these articles, millions of views about don't take NSAIDs, don't use ice, because it decreases the inflammatory response, you know, in soft tissues, which will ultimately, this is the TLDR. That's not true. Go figure. Go figure. Yeah, it's just been super popular to talk about, and these things can be useful at times, and there's also been some talk of, oh, if you take NSAIDs, it decreases your testosterone levels or decreases your muscle protein synthesis response to training or all these things, you know, and this has happened in different permutations, not just with NSAIDs. This has happened with, people said, oh, if you take fish oil around training, it's got some anti-inflammatory effect, and that's going to blunt your training response. I'll cut to the chase. That's not true. Oh, if you take vitamin C around training, it's going to blunt your training response. Again, I'll cut to the chase. Also not true. Although, why are you taking vitamin C? Probably don't need it, yeah. Probably don't need it. So, it's just interesting that it's been talked about so, so much, like, there's not a bunch of data on this. But, in fact, there is. It's like, when you have an idea, and you're like, hmm, you know, I think that the inflammatory response is a normal part of the muscle remodeling repair mechanism that we go through training. And that if you inhibit it or mess with it by using medications, for instance, maybe that wouldn't be such a good thing. Well, that's a fine idea to have. But the next thing you have to do is go to the Google machine and type that in there and then start looking at data. Because when you do that, then you're like, oh, maybe this thing's actually more nuanced. And that's what we're going to discuss today. Okay. So, you're saying that NSAIDs are not Tylenol. Yeah. So, Tylenol does not fit into this category. I don't consider it to be an anti-inflammatory drug. It does have some action on that cyclooxygenase enzyme. But the thought, it's kind of bizarre, and it's been fascinating, like, through medical training, when you learn about some of these medications that are used so commonly. And then you're like, I wonder how that works. And you go to look it up, and they're like, yeah, so it's still not fully understood how this medication works. And we're like, what the hell? So, Tylenol actually fits in that category. We have some understanding of how it works. It's thought to work on some of the cyclooxygenase enzymes, particularly in the central nervous system in the brain, which is kind of interesting. But I don't consider it to be a peripheral anti-inflammatory medication. Yeah. Yeah. And I think most clinicians would agree with you on that. Yes, it definitely has analgesic, so pain-alleviating effect. It definitely is an antipyretic in that it can alleviate some fever stuff. But as far as your typical NSAID, it doesn't qualify. Aspirin certainly does. It's probably one of the original ones. Brief aside, just on some historical notes. So aspirin is acetylsalicylic acid. It was originally discovered as a form of willow bark. And then they were able to isolate, in the late 1800s, salicylic acid. But then when you try to, like, ingest it, ow. So they had to buffer it, and they eventually buffered it into acetylsalicylic acid. In the late 1800s, 1904 comes around. These are some pharmaceutical, like, nerds at Bayer and are like, hey, we got it. And then they made it. So turn of the century, Bayer pumps out some aspirin. And that's, like, the first NSAID that we have on the market, again, from willow bark. It was interesting if you look into, like, the where, like, what was aspirin, like, quoted to do. Pliny the Elder wrote, like, this whole book. I actually think it's plenty now that I say it out loud. But I like Pliny better. Like, I just imagine he's like, oh, 14 uses for this thing, right? And so if you mixed, he said that if you mix aspirin with alcohol, that it would decrease your sex drive, your libido, acutely. And then if you did it consistently enough, it would be gone forever. Oh, no. Which made me start wondering, like, is that a thing? So I actually looked, you know, into some data. And I couldn't find any evidence that any sort of, any NSAID, particularly aspirin, has any effect on the libido. So maybe he was a little off on that one. Any sort of bleeding disorder, he thought that aspirin worked. Backwards. Yeah. So aspirin, if you had a clotting issue, would potentially be useful, depending on the nature of that. But if you have an issue where you're actively bleeding, you probably wouldn't want to take aspirin. Yeah, because you just keep bleeding. Yeah. But, yeah. Also abscesses or abscesses, which I think, again, was just the anti-fever sort of effect. But, yeah, it was interesting to learn that about aspirin. I couldn't find as much data on ibuprofen's history or whatever. I also can't figure out where willow bark came from except for, like, down in, like, Venezuela when they, you know, and somebody discovered it when they were looking for quinine. Ah, I see. Yeah, I didn't know that either. Cool. I knew about the willow bark, not all that other history. All that other twud, time wasted on useless detail. Right, exactly. Okay, so, yeah, but the common ones you're going to figure, you guys are going to come in contact with. So, aspirin, for sure. Ibuprofen, Motrin, again, is ibuprofen, naproxen, naproxen, you know, indomethacin, you guys probably aren't going to come in contact with. Hope not. Yeah. Diclofenac, which is, you know. Maloxicam. Yeah, maloxicam. Also, if it's topical, it's going to be Voltaren. You know, so any one of those are not. And then Catorlac or Toradol is the injectable one that you might receive intramuscularly or IV if you show up to the ER or in the hospital or something like that. Interestingly, Tramadol, you're like, oh, Toradol, Tramadol, they're the same? No. No, do not take Tramadol. Yeah, that's the friendly advice. Friendly advice. Yeah, would not recommend unless, you know, opioids are your thing. Probably not. And that's not a judgment thing. Sometimes you don't get a choice. Somebody you trust is giving it to you. But, yeah, it's not as nonsteroidal. So, in general, we prefer nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for pain relief when we get away with them instead of using opioids for that. For sure. Yeah. For sure. So, you want to speak at all about, like, the efficacy. I think there are basically two major things that you'd want to discuss in general efficacy. One would be pain, so analgesic effect, right? And then the other would be fever. Because, really, that's the only stuff that you're using nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for, like, for real. Pain and fever. You know? Yeah. Pliny was a little off. All right. So, Austin, let's go through, like, the efficacy of anti-inflammatories. So, as far as their effect on pain and fever reduction, I think the other uses for anti-inflammatory, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory, is probably beyond the scope of this podcast. So, let's stick with pain and fever reduction. Sure. Yeah. So, there's been lots of research on this stuff in common painful conditions. For example, we talked about them a little bit on our osteoarthritis episode, where, for example, you know, there's lots of trials looking at the efficacy of these things compared to placebo or compared to acetaminophen or Tylenol for pain. And they are reasonably effective in terms of pain reduction for a lot of these conditions. Now, what I'm always getting more and more interested in is going back to that data that I was initially looking at and looking at the response of the placebo group when they do these trials. Because, of course, when we do these randomized controlled trials for medications like this, we're comparing something like, you know, an ibuprofen or a naproxen or something like that compared to placebo to see if it outperforms just taking, you know, quote, unquote, sugar pill kind of thing. And pretty reliably, there's always a decent proportion of people in the placebo group that report, you know, a significant pain reduction from taking placebo. But the idea with NSAIDs is that you can outperform that effect. You get whatever effect there is from just taking a pill in terms of pain reduction because, again, pain works weird like that. And then you get additional benefit on top of that for a lot of painful conditions like osteoarthritis, for example. And some of the other conditions beyond just pain is just kind of inflammatory conditions in general which can tend to generate pain. For example, like in the setting of, you know, gout, gouty arthritis will give some potent anti-inflammatory medications because that's like a profoundly inflammatory situation. It can also be very painful. But, you know, we're treating specifically to reduce the inflammation and secondarily to that reducing pain. And so similarly, you know, similarly, they are useful to reduce fever. In general, I tend to err on like when I'm in the hospital or something like that, I tend to err on using Tylenol first to reduce fever rather than using NSAIDs for fever alone just because, well, for multiple reasons. But Tylenols generally have less side effects when used at recommended dose ranges compared to NSAIDs. And so if I can get the same fever reduction effect using a different medication, particularly in more ill hospitalized patients who tend to have all kinds of other issues going on, then I tend to err on that side. But they do tend to be fairly effective for reducing pain and inflammation. However, it's also important to recognize that they're going to be more effective for situations where the pain is secondary to kind of inflammatory induced nociception, if that makes sense. So conditions where your pain is not really attributable to an inflammatory process, for example, like neuropathic pain, like if you have neuropathy or something like that, that's not going to be particularly responsive to an NSAID medication. If you have some other non-inflammatory reason for pain, for example, if you have tendinopathy, that tends to not really respond that well to NSAIDs. So you hear, you know, this is something that's super common in the training world is for people to just load up on vitamin I when you have tendinopathy, which is not a particularly effective way to manage that condition. And it certainly does not result in healing or long-term improvement such that you can get off of those medications. So you were, you know, you were mentioning earlier a lot of the people who kind of talk a lot on the Internet about how harmful NSAIDs are in terms of impairing adaptation. There's also this interesting other side of the spectrum that I see a lot of within the training world who say that, like, you know, vitamin I or ibuprofen is like the answer to everything under the sun. And any kind of setback you have, you should take a bunch of Advil for, which I don't necessarily agree with either. I assume that this is Pliny the Elder. Yeah, right. Yeah. It's great for your elbow pain when you're squatting wrong rather than fixing your squat. Yeah. And so, well, you know, so there's the Oxford analgesic table, which is effectively it rates the number needed to treat for all, like, pain medications in general and acute pain. And the outcome they're looking at is A-50% reduction in pain. So, for instance, if you just took, like, ibuprofen by itself or a similar acting medication, it's funny because the NNT, like, the middle of that number needed to treat is right in that, like, two to three range. So, effectively, if you treat, you know, three people with ibuprofen or a stronger anti-inflammatory drug like Ketorolac or whatever, you get A-50% reduction in pain, you know, in one of those people. But that number is better than morphine. Yeah. So, if you're like, oh, I need something stronger, it's like, well, that may be true, but you may not need – going to an opioid, and morphine is certainly one of the strong ones, is not necessarily indicated. And I think, you know, we're talking about these adverse effects, and certainly – well, let me preface it like this. But going into the number needed to treat, the number needed to harm, the sort of relative risk ratio and all this other stuff for each type of cardiovascular event you can have, each kind of kidney event you can have or gastrointestinal sort of complication that you can have, I think is beyond the scope of this podcast. But those, in general, are the side effects that we're looking at, right? I don't want to speak for you, but I'll just say for my own sort of, like, if we're looking at this from a 10,000-foot view, I do not worry about that stuff for short-term treatment, right? Like, four or five days, up to a week, I don't really worry about it. In fact, you and I have both listened to the kidney boy talk about – they were giving these people massive – So, this is the precision trial is the name of the study for people who want to look up the data itself. And they had a pretty large cohort of 65-year-old, a lot of – a good proportion of women, I think, in the trial as well. And they'd randomized them to Celebrex and Aproxin and Ibuprofen at fairly high doses. Yeah, high doses, regular to – and they already had some evidence of kidney disease, kidney failure prior to this, right? And they were – one of the outcomes they were looking at was, you know, worsening kidney function. Another outcome was gastrointestinal complications. And what are the rates on that that they – Yeah, so I actually pulled up the – let me quote the right information here. So, they had 24,000 patients in the trial. So, about – approximately a third, about 8,000 randomized to each group. It was a multi-center trial. 65% of the patients were female. They were average age 63 years. And so, among the – over the course of this trial, there were – let's see. Between Celebrex and Aproxin, there was about 180 to 200 or so cardiovascular events in each of those groups. About 130 to 160 people died in those groups among the 24,000 who were on these medications. And there were about 80, 86 gastrointestinal issues. So, for example, like GI bleeding, things like that. And there was about 50 to 70 issues with renal function in terms of, like, kidney failure, things like that. Out of 24,000 in these older people with evidence of – some evidence of kidney disease prior. Yeah, so this was really surprising information just because, you know, we are – I mean, I know myself in particular commonly dealing with this older, frail population, particularly that we see a lot in the hospital with a number of, you know, comorbid diseases, issues with history of GI bleeds, or they're on blood thinners, or they have chronic kidney disease, things like that. And kind of the impression that we're given is that, like, even a single dose of Finansad medication is, like, super high risk for these patients. And that seems to be overstated. Now, I'm certainly not going to do what they did in this trial to patients just because it still makes me uncomfortable even though I have that data. But I agree that for short term, I tend not to freak out about it unless they have very significant comorbid diseases. If they have, like, horrific cardiovascular disease, if they have, you know, bad cirrhosis, bleeding tendencies, you know, if they're almost to needing dialysis because their kidneys are so bad, then I don't want to kind of feel like I'm potentially the person who's kicking them over the edge to dialysis, for example. So things like that. But definitely from this data, at least, it seems like those risks are, you know, we fear them out of proportion to their abs. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think, again, short term dosing for acute musculoskeletal based pain, I think, which is probably the main recommendation that the people listening and watching this are looking at. So, again, your low back is a little sore for whatever reason. Again, it's unlikely to be this acute traumatic injury. We've already talked about this, beat it to death, you know, but if you need to take some, an NSAID for it, I probably would not be worried about the side effects in that particular case for a short course of those. That being said, you know, our litigious society requires me to say that before starting or stopping any medication, you should definitely check with your physician. Yeah. I don't know. So in your case, you know, we both see patients on steady MD and a lot of these folks are lifting and occasionally have aches and pains and whatever. Or, you know, how comfortable are you saying, hey, go take some ibuprofen? Yeah. So particularly when they message me for acute issues, I tend to have very little issue with saying something like that. You know, I'll have clients who might message me who I coach or patients and they'll say, hey, I tweaked my back or my knee's aching today, whatever. And I'll have them take something like that. And I might suggest a dose and a frequency and I'll say, you know, this is to be short term. Say, maybe I'll tell them something like, you know, if it gets better in a day to three days, then that's awesome. If you need to take it for longer than that, then let's kind of readdress the situation because maybe we need to modify something about what you're doing in your training. If I have people who have chronic issues, so if they have long-term issues with certain painful areas and they feel like they have to take something like this on a daily basis or more frequently than that over the long period of time, then I'm definitely a little bit more hesitant. And then I really want to readdress both I get into the pain education kind of thing with them because maybe that alone can reduce their pain. Such that I can reduce the dose or the frequency that they're using the medication. And I might use, I might modify their training in, say, using certain style, maybe certain variants or certain programming styles, maybe adjust their intensity or their volume so that they can tolerate it a little better. And then finally, I might switch them if they are a patient of mine from something like an oral NSAID to see if they can get the same kind of benefit, which sometimes they can from using a topical one like diclofenac or Voltaren gel, which is just a topical NSAID that kind of spares you. It has minimal systemic absorption, very low risk of causing kind of those systemic side effects, even when used over the long term. And you can use it up to four times a day. Yeah, Voltaren. So I'm the same way with the caveat, nuance, whatever. I feel like it's, I'm just a walking meme. Uh, the, the reason I have people use NSAIDs clinically is if they have an acute pain that I want to make go away right now. That's, that's my use is that if I give you the ibuprofen or the NSAID, whatever NSAID it ends up being, now I want within an hour or two a significant reduction in your pain. And if that doesn't occur, then we stop because that's not, you know, effectively at that point, um, you know, if that happens over the course of a day or two, then I'm saying this pain is not unresponsive to, to NSAIDs. And it doesn't mean that we can't ever make it go away. It's just, we're not treating it. And I see no reason to continue to take a medication that potentially has side effects for, for that reason, because you're not treating it. That being said, if it is a musculoskeletal pain, I have high likelihood to believe that ibuprofen is going to work. And, uh, if somebody has that regularly, they have osteoarthritis that for instance, that, um, they need to take something daily, then I'm also in the same boat with a topical sort of, uh, the topical medication, uh, the NNT for that, the number needed to treat for Volteran. Impressive. Yeah. One in two. Impressively well. You would think it wouldn't work as well. Yeah. And that's based on this 2015, like Cochran review, uh, you know, the huge data set to huge data set. And so, um, you know, I think the, the other interesting thing, because this is going to pop up in the comments, well, what about fish oil? What about, you know, eating a low omega six diet? Because that decreases production of arachidotic acid. And then you don't even get the production of these pro-inflammatory cytokines. Uh, yeah, but no, it doesn't. Okay. So it really doesn't. Um, yeah, it doesn't. That's for the dietary input and then omega three fatty acid intake tends to not have, uh, particular supplementation doesn't have any effect on these pain sports, particularly acute pain or osteoarthritis, uh, osteoarthritis, uh, related pain. If it's rheumatoid, well, that's a different thing. We're dealing with autoimmune disease and that's, that's a, that's a different sort of scenario, but I wouldn't recommend taking fish oil because you're in pain. It's unlikely to help. Um, and I wouldn't recommend necessarily avoiding omega sixes for the pain, uh, you know, sort of, sort of benefit. I would recommend eating a diet that's rich in fiber and whole grains and high quality proteins that, uh, makes your body fat and body composition and body weight do what you need to do for your goal set. But, uh, other than that, I probably wouldn't, wouldn't geek out too much on the diet being the cure for your pain because it's unlikely to do so. Yeah. The other, the other, the other situations that I would mention would be a delayed onset muscle soreness is generally not a super inflammatory condition contrary to a common belief, um, and doesn't tend to respond all that well to something like NSAIDs. Uh, the solution to delayed onset muscle soreness is, uh, appropriate programming. Um, which, which, which includes, uh, you know, an appropriate amount of volume and appropriate amount of frequency, appropriate amount of intensity, et cetera. This is actually a great time. So what we're going to do is we're going to take a break. Uh, we'll come back with part two. We're going to talk about NSAIDs and their effect on muscle strength, hypertrophy, performance. And we'll wrap this podcast up. All right. Welcome back to the Barbell Medicine Podcast. This is part two. We're going to talk about the effect of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs on strength, hypertrophy, performance, and Austin. So, hey man, if I'm taking ibuprofen, you know, I heard, I read that, you know, it's going to make, it's going to blunt the effect of training that it's going to blunt the effect that I get out of training. I'm going to, I'm not going to get as strong. What's the deal? So, yeah, this is all very interesting topic and an interesting area of research. And so basically what I tell people when they, cause I get asked this kind of stuff a lot and the way I tend to put it to people is if the inflammatory response to training, which is necessary, but if that inflammatory response to training consisted exclusively of a Cox enzyme mediated pathway, then yeah, NSAIDs would definitely mess with your adaptation. Uh, but it turns out that, that, uh, systemic inflammation is a much more complex process. There are probably thousands to millions of molecular mediators of this receptors involved, enzymes involved, cellular mediators. And so to think that taking, uh, particularly a short term or, or a short, or a lower dose of an NSAID, uh, is going to result in no gains resulting from your training is a pretty simplistic, uh, way to think about it. Uh, because this is not just, you know, a, a single target process in terms of the Cox enzyme is just one part of like a massive chain of events that takes place. So the actual impact that you're having on this whole process is fairly small. Uh, but there is some kind of, to the extent that there is an effect, there is some interesting literature out there on it. What have you had? I just, you know, I get frustrated when I read these papers mainly because the methodology of the training protocols, I just, it, it makes me want to hurt someone. And then I live by myself. So it just ends up being me. Not only the methods of the training protocols, but sometimes the, the medications themselves, like injecting into methicin and just into a thigh or something like that. Like what the fuck? So, so, all right. So this first study that I thought was interesting that directly kind of, uh, addresses, uh, uh, muscular strength, uh, and soreness, for instance. So this is from the journal of applied physiology and nutrition metabolism from 2008, uh, Krentz et al. So they had 20 dudes and six chicks. Um, they did bicep curls, six sets of four to 10 repetitions, but only one arm per day. And they also, so then, so day one is left arm curl priority. Day two is right arm curl priority. And they did this for five days a week, which when you think about it, that means one arm is getting trained more than the other. Right. Yeah. And they trained for six weeks. So they were randomized to get either 400 milligrams a day of ibuprofen, which is, uh, not a high dose, but it is some dose. Two of the usual over the counter tablets would be 400 million. Usually they're 200 milligram tablets that you get over the counter. Yeah. Uh, so they got it after training their, uh, arm, not arms, but they got it after training their arm or they got placebo. Uh, and so they measured muscle size with ultrasound, which has been validated. So that's pretty accurate. They measured their one RM curl strength. Nice. I, I can't make this up. Hey, you said they were doing sets of four to six, right? Or something like that. Or four to 10 sets of four to 10. Hey, I mean, that means that at some point they were doing fives, which means they're going to get real strong on the curl. Yeah. So they averaged out to be fives. Uh, in any event, they found there was no difference on muscle cross-sectional area. They all increased their muscle cross-sectional area. There was no difference in one RM strength. They all increased their strength and there was no difference. Uh, and rate, uh, rating of soreness. Even if they got the ibuprofen, they still got sore on week one, but then none of them reported soreness on week two. Uh, a couple other interesting things they didn't really report in this paper, but you see in the data. Uh, there, so the size of the arm didn't really change after the second week, which shows, tells you a few things. It's one that the training protocol is not sufficient to induce, uh, net hypertrophy. Yeah. Because they're only doing six, that's a four to 10, one arm at a time. So you need to induce more fatigue, even though they're training at five days a week, but it's only one arm at a time. So that's the other interesting thing. They didn't have any, uh, uh, uh, discussion about the dietary parameters. Right. So like, what was the protein intake, for instance, what was the calorie intake? What was the net weight change pre and post? They didn't have any of that. So that's kind of an interesting omission. Um, so, but this is, again, exercise science. It, I hesitate to say this because there's been a lot of negative sort of, you know, oh, exercise science is stupid and non rigorous and this and the other. It's just, you have people who are unfamiliar with training who are running the studies, which ultimately leads to studies that make you go, what the? Yeah. They write it and they're like, oh, this, you know, we can, we can randomize each of the subjects extremities to this study protocol. We have four, four, four different subjects with left arm, right arm, left leg, right leg. It seems reasonable. And then anyone who trains is like, no, no, that doesn't work. Yeah. So, um, and, and you find more and more of that. So if you're actually just looking from a strength perspective, okay. The only thing that you'll find with regards to, uh, uh, NSAID administration and strength is, uh, is either no difference than placebo. Okay. Or a positive impact on strength in that the people who take the N, says are actually able to train more regularly. That is their attrition. They don't, they don't drop out of the study and they don't, uh, not show up for the training. Um, and you see that, uh, there's a couple of studies that I pulled that had like older patient, uh, cohorts that showed that. Um, and so it's not necessarily, I didn't feel like any of them were like, oh, this is the premier paper and we're going to, you know, so I'll leave those out of the stuff that we read, but we're definitely going to link all the, all the stuff that we actually talk about specifically. So did you find anything else where there was like, yo, people got weaker when they took NSAIDs? Cause I didn't find any of that. I found either no difference or improvement. Yeah. I didn't really find anything impressive in either direction, even the improvements that you get from this. Yeah. It's very small, very small. But so, so, you know, just for those who are listening, whose ears perked up, they're like, I can get stronger if I take these more. It's like, well, that would be pretty stupid to take these just for that purpose. Unless it's gonna, unless it, you otherwise can't train, which seems unrealistic. And then you'd be, if you couldn't train because of pain, then you'd be taking them for a specific purpose. That's what I mean. It's like, if you, if you're not symptomatic for any reason and you can train with a regular, following a regular program, do just fine. But you want to take these because some study said that you get more gains that way. That'd be pretty dumb. So. Yeah. Uh, so, okay. So for strength, the jury is in on NSAIDs and strength, no real effect unless it allows you to train more regularly, in which case you'd expect more training to improve your strength. Yeah. That would be the conclusion of the trial. More training gets you stronger than less training. Weird. Groundbreaking stuff. Yeah. Shocker. Shocker. Okay. So moving on to hypertrophy. So, uh, I think it's important to, again, define hypertrophy. Hypertrophy is the increase in existing muscle fiber size. Um, this one probably has the most historic roots. Uh, 2011 Trappy, uh, came out with that paper that basically said ibuprofen administration pre-workout in young folks decrease their muscle fractional synthesis rate. But did you read that paper? I think you've heard of it. I mean, yeah, no, I've heard of Trappy as the person, but I haven't, you know, torn that study apart myself. Yeah. So what he didn't look, he looked at his very short term, right? So do you just look at a fractional synthesis synthetic rate of protein post-workout, not like net muscle protein synthesis over even a 24 hour period. And certainly not even over a week. I don't care. Or muscle size itself. Correct. Correct. There are no direct outcomes. So, so, so fractional muscle protein synthetic rate is effectively how high your muscle protein synthesis rates get after a workout. And they are high in most populations for up to like 48 hours elevated above baseline. Okay. So if you're a researcher and you see that it's low at like, or lower than you'd expect at one hour, you can't just go home and say, yeah, it lowers it. You have to measure that out for days and days and days and weeks and see what sort of clinical effect, if any, does it have? Does it actually produce a smaller muscle size? Does it actually produce less muscle protein synthesis over a useful period of time, like a, like a week or a few days? Uh, and if so, well, that's interesting. What's more, what's more interesting about this is that, so this paper came out, uh, sorry, the first, that first paper came out in 2002. Okay. And he basically, the report was we reduce muscle protein synthesis rates by 50% post-workout with pre-workout administration of ibuprofen. Okay. And everyone's like, oh no, I'll never take it again. 2011 rolls around, so nine years later, he comes out, same author, and says, yeah, I was just kidding though. Uh, the only difference, and which again, blows my mind again, is that he used old people in the second study. Right. So not even the same study design. Um, so yeah, there was no decrease in protein synthesis rate the second time he tested it and tested it for a longer period of time. And so over, over the course of the day, the, the rates equilibrated and instead of saying, hey, maybe the first paper wasn't terribly accurate, they didn't say that. They said that, yeah, well, maybe because older folks are anabolically resistant that the NSAIDs aided with blood flow because it is a quote unquote, you know, blood thinner. Yeah. Sort of. Sort of. Yeah. Maybe it participates in angiogenesis on some level via that mechanism, although I doubt it. Uh, I don't know. I'm unimpressed and I hate to be too critical, but it's just like, you did the study, dude, you're responsible for this. And, and he didn't, I'm a, I'm, I'm not satisfied. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think that's similar to, you know, the strength piece is that to the extent that there is an effect, it's quite small. I think the theoretical mechanism that people, if they look into this, will see tossed around a whole lot is that, uh, yeah, chronic, chronic systemic inflammation in particular is a known inhibitor of muscle protein synthesis. And this is, uh, this is a topic that I talked at length about in that, uh, cell signaling lecture that I gave at the coaches conference. Um, you know, in terms of mechanisms to either promote or inhibit, uh, muscle protein synthesis. And so the cellular inflammatory, uh, molecules or the, even the, sorry, not the cellular inflammatory mediators or the molecular mediated mediators of inflammation definitely tend to inhibit muscle protein synthesis. And so the mechanism that gets tossed around or the theory that gets tossed around is that older people tend to have at baseline more systemic inflammation than younger people. And so that is one of the mechanisms by which they are anabolically resistant. So if you reduce that inflammation in the older person using something like an NSAID to make them more similar, physiologically speaking, as a young person, they might be more sensitive to anabolic stimuli and get muscle protein synthesis. But as you have described in both of these contexts and strength and muscle mass, uh, increase to the extent that there's an effect, it's quite small. Um, it does not justify taking these medications solely for that purpose in the absence of systems, uh, symptoms that you're specifically treating for sure. And additionally, you know, the older you get above age 60, the more likely you are to actually have side effects to these medicines. So yeah, there's that. Yeah. I think, I think that my take home for this is no, there's no real effect on strength, uh, with NSAIDs versus placebo that unless again, you get to train more on, yeah, more training makes you stronger, not less. Uh, and then, uh, for hypertrophy, it has no effect. Uh, you know, there was that, that rather recent paper that in, in, in, uh, isolated, uh, hormonal tissue that was isolated from testicles that if you applied NSAID to that, it decreased testosterone production. Meanwhile, meanwhile, in vivo in humans, uh, there's no evidence that NSAID decreases testosterone to a clinically meaningful amount because if your testosterone goes down by 50 points, let's, let's make it more dramatic. It goes down by a hundred points. Yeah. Meaningless. Yes. It doesn't mean anything. We would suggest everyone refer to our prior podcast where you will learn that both there is a massive diurnal variation as well as significant lab error. Uh, so those variations. Yes. Agree. Meaningless. Yes. And unfortunately, Austin and I will not be making any money off any testosterone supplements or getting a million views on a YouTube video about telling you how to raise your testosterone naturally, which is not true and not meaningful. And other than by, other than by losing weight, improving your sleep training. Yeah. Yeah. Although, which is stuff you should be doing anyway, not because it improves your testosterone specifically. Right. Exactly. Getting your testosterone to go from 300 to 400 is meaningless. Getting your testosterone to go from 300 to 700 is meaningless. Getting your testosterone to go from 300 to 900 is meaningless. Doesn't matter. Doesn't matter. All right. All right. We're going to go on before I dad gets mad and my camera, you know, I just break it. Okay. So we talked about, uh, hypertrophy, a strength and hypertrophy. The other thing you get thrown is seen thrown around, particularly in the literature is bone mineral density. Like, Oh, if you take NSAIDs, that will potentially alter this bone mineral density. So that's what we test to see if someone has like osteoporosis or osteopenia. And the idea is that mechanical loading of the bone causes prostaglandin release. All right. That's one of the hormones or, uh, one of the factors, cytokines, uh, that, uh, affects bone remodeling. And that is also affected upstream by NSAIDs. So NSAIDs block that cyclooxygenase, uh, enzyme. So you get less prostaglandin release and ultimately less prostaglandins. So the theory was if you take NSAIDs, you're not going to get this bone mineral density improvement from resistance training. Seems unlikely. Seems unlikely. But then, but then in 2010, okay. So, so what happened in 2010, there was this like proof of concept, uh, study that went down and they took young females and gave them ibuprofen prior to training. Okay. And what did they see? Decreased prostaglandins. Weird. Yeah. Weird. Hmm. Okay. Uh, there was a small clinically or sorry, a small statistically significant difference in bone mineral density as measured in the femur, uh, and, and, uh, at the proximal hip. Uh, but there actually was a greater bone mineral density in the ibuprofen users in the spine. Okay. But they thought, oh, maybe this is plausible. We'll run a bigger study. Okay. So here's what happens. 2015 in the bone reports, which may be my favorite journal name ever. This is called timing of timing of ibuprofen use and musculoskeletal adaptations to exercise training in older adults. So they had 190, 60 to 75 year olds, previously sedentary adults. Uh, they put them in three arms. So one part of the trial that we get a placebo before training, a placebo after training. The second part of the trial, they would get ibuprofen 400 milligrams prior to training and a placebo afterwards. And the third arm, they would get a placebo, uh, or sorry, uh, a placebo before training and ibuprofen afterwards. Their theory was that the placebo, the people who either got all placebo or only got the ibuprofen after training would have greater bone mineral density or, you know, growth. The strength to the study is that they followed them out for three years, 36 months. Guess what the difference was? None. No, not even a statistically significant difference in bone mineral density sites anywhere. Not even statistically significant difference, which means certainly no clinically significant difference. There's a difference between clinical and statistical in this type of analysis. So, uh, this was like, you know, nail, uh, nail in the coffin here, uh, which is super interesting. Um, this kind of supports another study, the Canadian multicenter osteoporosis study who basically did the same thing, uh, and showed again, no difference. They did come up with an interesting mechanism, which I'll briefly address. They thought that NSAIDs would allow a normal bone formation response to mechanical loading. All right. But that it would, uh, prevent inflammatory bone loss. So in that, so basically they're saying potentially there would be a beneficial effect of taking NSAIDs on bone mineral density. Although we don't see that. Turns out that wasn't the case either. Yeah. No. Apparently no need to study this anymore. Correct. Unless, unless it allows you to train. Okay. Uh, the other thing that you'll see, and I think you showed, you sent me this paper, was on, uh, Baron Schoenfeld wrote in 2012 about, uh, NSAIDs altering satellite cell repair, uh, or satellite cell recruitment. So do you want to do the physiology? Yeah. So, so I can talk about that. So basically what satellite cells are, are they are considered the stem cells of skeletal muscle tissue. And so, you know, you have your, your myocytes, the skeletal muscle actual cells themselves, and they're surrounded by a bunch of little satellite cells that live kind of just outside them scattered throughout the muscle tissue. And so when you receive a training stress or when they're, you know, damaged in any way, so this is both to intentional kind of mechanical loading training, or if you get like a crush injury to your arm or something like that. So when you get that kind of, uh, inflammatory repair response, that kind of tends to wake up satellite cells and that recruits them into the muscle cell. And so the satellite cell, which lives as a kind of a quiescent stem cell, just kind of lives there forever without really advancing in the cell cycle for cell bio nerds out there. Uh, it then, it then kind of donates, uh, a new nucleus to the muscle muscle cell itself. So remember that muscle cells, they tend to undergo more hypertrophy. There's very little, uh, evidence of muscle cell hyperplasia where muscle cells would divide in a human. So they grow in size and when they grow in size, uh, they tend to need more nuclei to kind of govern their territory. This is known as the myonuclear domain theory. And so all these new, yeah, all these new muscle cell nuclei that a muscle cell needs come from satellite cells. And so they're thought to be an essential component of the muscle cellular response to training and to damage or injury. So the idea, what, or the question was, to what extent do NSAIDs modify the response of muscle, uh, of, uh, of muscle satellite cells to, to training? Right. And there's evidence in mice, meese, me, well, whatever, rats, uh, that, uh, that if you dose somebody with the NSAIDs that they, you're blunting the satellite cell, the signal to recruit satellite cells. And so again, people were saying, Oh no, if you take NSAIDs, you're going to get a smaller muscle hypertrophy response through this mechanism. Although again, that has been borne out by evidence. And then four years after Schoenfeld wrote that 2016, Mackie et al., the journal of the Federation of American Society of Experimental Biology. This is a direct quote. I like it. So I'm going to read it. They addressed this exact issue in vivo in humans that were resistance training. Our finding was that there was a greater increase in satellite cell content in NSAIDs compared with placebo ingestion seven days after a muscle injury stimulus occurred. Uh, which is the, it's interesting the way they did this muscle stimulus, like injury stimulus thing. They put people on a leg extension and they made them do a bunch of reps to failure. Like I imagine the machine was just going a hundred reps later. And they verified muscle damage by elevation and creatine kinase and that their counter movement jump was decreased. Yeah. It's reasonable. So they're like, Oh, you're fatigued. Yeah. Uh, so in any event, uh, our findings was that there was a greater increase in satellite cell content compared with placebo ingestion seven days after muscle injury stimulus. Uh, let's see. In addition to the effect on early satellite cell proliferation, the administration of anti-inflammatory medication was observed to accelerate the repair of myofibers in the later stages of regeneration. And to mediate a more rapid return of satellite cells and the muscle extracellular membrane gene expression levels to baseline levels. In essence, shifting the entire time course of the satellite cell, myofiber and muscle, uh, extracellular matrix adaptations to a more rapid repair. I don't think that we have any evidence to suggest that taking NSAIDs actually improves recovery. If we're going to define recovery as the ability to perform at a certain baseline, right? So, so if Austin's baseline performance is a 590 squat, let's just say, okay. And he, he undergoes a training events, all right, which stresses him to a certain amount and he can no longer perform that 590 pound squat. Right. So he, we're looking for him to recover to a point where he can squat 590 again. And that may be a day. Uh, it may be 36 hours. It may be two days. All right. Uh, that doesn't mean that he's adapted to the stimulus of the training. He's just recovered from it and can therefore squat again. I don't think we have any evidence that NSAIDs improve the, that sort of recovery to baseline performance levels. I don't think we have any evidence that NSAIDs, uh, actually increase sort of your rate of adaptation either. Sure. I think we have significant evidence that it doesn't really affect anything and that if you need to use it so that you can train productively, it can be useful. Yes. But, but yeah, so that's kind of like the take home for me. I think that all these molecular, these, uh, molecular pathways are super interesting if you want to geek out about, uh, but you know, the second step you have to take after identifying the molecular pathway is, well, what does this actually mean? Like in real life? Yeah. Why do I care about this? Exactly. Yeah. Should I care about this? And, uh, can confirm, don't care. So my, my, my, I think the take home message is this and you can, you can add on your, your parting shots to this. So from an NSAID perspective, if you need to take them in order to train productively, cool. Uh, I don't think they confer any advantage to folks when they're not taking it for a particular reason. I think you've stated that like at least three different times, but it bears repeating. Uh, and then I think that it's unlikely to cause any detriment. Um, the only outstanding sort of thing that we, we didn't really address here, but I would, I just include this in my parting thoughts is that people will say, yeah, well, you talked about muscle strength and hypertrophy and bone mineral density. What about like a tendonitis, tendinosis, you know, uh, soft tissue injury. If I take NSAIDs, that's going to, you know, decrease the enzymatic activity at that level. Well, we don't see that either. There's, I'll link the paper for you guys to read it. You know, I don't, I don't think we have time to read for me to read this entire, like, you know, long winded response, but you don't see that in the data either. So it'd be great. It'd be great if we had a magic pill to reduce or improve tendinopathy, but tendinopathy is just plain and simple. It's a long-term process. It takes long-term to develop and it takes long-term to heal from a pain, from a symptom standpoint. And so, yeah, I would, I would definitely agree with what you said there, um, outside of kind of inflammatory related or acute, acute pain. Um, you know, if you need to take it for a short term at the lowest dose that works for you, I think that's a, that's a good idea. If you feel that you need to take it over a longer period of time, I would just quickly, briefly take a step back and say, is there something that I'm doing that is continuing to irritate this particular thing? Is there something I can alter with my programming, my training, my, you know, outside recovery issues? Do I have some sort of untreated chronic pain syndrome or something like that, that needs to be dealt with that would result in me not, me not needing to take these over the long-term. Um, the older you are, the more other medical conditions you have, the more pregnant you are. I would not recommend taking these things, uh, in those situations, um, for various, for various reasons, particularly over the long-term, but at all for pregnancy really. So, um, yeah, I think those are my main take-home points. I, I have no disagreements. Hey, thanks for joining us here on the Barbell Medicine Podcast. Make sure to check out our guided program if you're interested. Make sure to check out our press template. If you're interested in going overhead and all the links to everything we talked about are in the description below or the show notes. Oh yeah. Give us the iTunes review on, on the podcast. I don't think we've, we've had, we've, uh, plugged that in a while. Yeah. Help us out. Help us. Help us. Help you. Yeah. All right. Cool, man. We'll see you later. See ya. Hey. Thank you.