 siermonezummen. Hey everybody. Dr. Barakki here for another quick two-minute Tuesday video. On today's episode we're going to be talking about the fluoroquinolone class of antibiotics and why they might be relevant to your training. This set of antibiotics includes the medications ciprofloxacin, or cipro, levofloxacin, or levaquin, and moxifloxacin, or avilox, as well as a few others. These medicines can be given orally or through an IV, and they kill bacteria by interfering with their ability to copy DNA. Because they can kill so many different types of bacteria, they are commonly used for a variety of infections, including those involving the urinary tract, the respiratory tract, infections within the abdomen, as well as a few other less common infections as well. These medicines are generally pretty well tolerated, but they can cause some medication interactions and some side effects to be aware of. The most pertinent for our discussion today include tendonitis, tendinopathy, and tendon rupture. We aren't exactly sure how these problems happen, but their incidence in young, healthy populations is pretty low, estimated to be around 0.1 to 0.4 percent. But a number of factors increased the risk further, including being over 60 years old, having kidney disease, or diabetes, taking corticosteroid medicines like prednisone, or participating in athletics. The Achilles tendon is involved in 90 to 95 percent of cases, but reports have been published about cases occurring at a number of other sites as well. The median time to onset of tendinopathy is estimated to be between six to eight days, but there is a wide variability in patients, ranging from within a few hours of starting treatment to several months after completing it as well. Due to concerns over the side effects of these medications, the FDA added a warning to the medication label about the risk of tendonitis and tendon rupture. In 2016, they came out with a warning saying that for patients with uncomplicated bronchitis, uncomplicated urinary tract infections, and uncomplicated sinus infections, if patients have alternative medication options available, those options should be considered. So to summarize, while these medications are generally well tolerated among most patients, if you have one of these infections, including sinus, bronchitis, or urinary tract infections, in the outpatient setting without evidence of complications, it's reasonable to mention your concern to your doctor to see if there are other treatment options available. If you have to be on one of these antibiotics for a specific reason, it's probably reasonable to reduce your intensity and volume in training for a brief period of time while you're on them. And if you experience sudden onset of tendon swelling or pain while taking these medications, you should stop the medicines immediately and contact your doctor as soon as possible. That's it for today. Thanks for watching. Please share with your friends. Hit like and subscribe for more content. See you next time. Bye.