 νero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero, cero It says something much different than never lift again, or even capping your walks at 30 minutes max per day. Austin, you're shaking your head just again. What's your off-the-cuff take on this? So many things are angering me about this. Now, there are a couple assumptions that I need to point out that we should probably not assume. So this person said they had a stent after an MI. A myocardial infarction, traditionally known as a heart attack. Um, there are multiple different ways by which somebody can have a heart attack. The most like the common understanding is that the rupture of a cholesterol plaque, um, in somebody probably who's like in their sixties would be like a textbook example of this kind of thing. Maybe they had, um, a smoking history. Maybe they had some high cholesterol, maybe some insulin resistance, maybe just bad luck, um, things like that. Sometimes, uh, these types of, uh, events, myocardial infarctions happen for other reasons. There are less common reasons why they can happen, um, that may have some other implications for somebody's like exercise, uh, capacity and their limitations. So somebody has a connective tissue disease leading to a coronary artery dissection, um, that can manifest as an MI leading to a stent placement. And they may have, or require some actual exercise restrictions to include lifting, maybe because of the rest of their connective tissue disease, because they have an enlarging aortic aneurysm. I'm just like giving these kind of left field examples just because there's a lot of complexity in this, in this area. Now, if we are talking about a kind of traditional run of the mill cholesterol plaque rupture, uh, type MI, um, leading to a stent placement, or hopefully less often these days, somebody who gets a stent placed, not having had an MI just for be it chest pain, or, uh, even if they're asymptomatic, which really shouldn't be happening, um, anymore at this point in, in most cases, um, there are not permanent restrictions on their ability to lift anything. Right. The, the, the questions that I would pose to somebody making this type of recommendation is number one, what is the specific thing you are worried about in terms of like mechanism? If they say, I am concerned that they're going to lift and their blood pressure will go up, it says, okay, so that'll lead to a host of downstream questions that we've talked about before. How are you preventing their blood pressure from going up when they strain to have a bowel movement? How are you preventing their blood pressure from going up when they go to ascend a flight of stairs? How are you preventing it when they maybe have sex or do anything else that is part of their, you know, normal, uh, daily life? Oh, you're not doing those things. Okay. So perhaps we need to go back to question one again. What are you most worried about and why? If it has something to do with the nature of the muscular contraction and above a certain load, they're worried about something specific happening. Well, what, what is that load? And what is that based off of? Are they allowed to pick up a pencil off the floor? Are they allowed to pick up a gallon of milk? Are they allowed to pick up a child? Are they allowed to? Okay. So there is some weight that they can pick up. And then there is the question about like, is it possible that the system adapts as we observe, even in these patients, when they proceed through cardiac rehab after their myocardial infarction. Right. And so then the same question would come up at most walk moderate pace for 30 minutes maximum per day. What happens at minute 31? Sir, like explain. Or man. And what, what is, what is a moderate pace? Oh, three miles an hour? Four miles? What happens if they go 3.5 miles? Like, what is this based on? What are you most worried about? And why is this a rigid static recommendation? In other words, an implicit assumption that adaptability is impossible or that the risk of participating in that degree of exercise activity or volume outweighs the potential benefit of it on health, which is far more clearly established than these just like kind of made up fears that this person has in mind. Again, and the caveat is that all of this is in the context of what we're viewing as like kind of a run of the mill traditional plaque rupture MI. If somebody has, you know, a coronary artery dissection and connective tissue disease and a giant thoracic aortic aneurysm that's unrepaired, like this is a totally different ballgame. So I have to like operate under certain assumptions in the way the question was asked. So, yeah, that's my, that's my initial take. Yeah, to be charitable towards the cardiologist in the question, to me, it seems like this is not a run of the mill, you know, heart attack. This person is either awaiting further workup or further intervention because there's something unstable. I mean, that's a big assumption. That's me being charitable. Yeah, that's me being charitable to the take, you know, because that's the only way this really makes sense. It's like this person is scheduled for some sort of surgery or additional evaluation or intervention or there's some uncertainty because, yeah, otherwise this is completely wrong and unfortunately very harmful to the patient. If this was a run of the mill heart attack, person did have a stent placed, for example, did the person get cardiac rehab? That's the first question I'm asking. Yes, afterwards, because this is supervised, structured exercise in an education program post MI. Oh, by the way, modern cardiac rehab involves both aerobic and resistance training. Yep. The biggest benefit here is the monitoring, both blood pressure, heart rate, things of that nature, symptoms, everything else. So that can be useful for even the most skeptical cardiologist in the audience. I don't think we have many of those because why the heck would they be listening to our podcast? Why would they subscribe to our Barbell Medicine Plus subscription? But the benefits of cardiac rehab are very, very good. Meta-analyses show about a 20 to 25 percent reduction in cardiovascular mortality when people get cardiac rehab. The problem is that most people do not get it, which is a shame. Yeah. Only about a quarter of eligible U.S. patients actually enroll in this. Now, whether that's due to not getting the referral, so that's kind of on the on the health care system or it's due to patients preferences unclear, but not enough people are taking advantage of cardiac rehab post post heart attack. So, yeah, I would ask that first question. But then when it comes to the actual guidelines as far as resistance training in stable coronary artery disease, so persons had a heart attack historically, for example, and now otherwise doing well, the current scientific statement recommends resistance training. They do acknowledge like early on, immediately after, look, there may need to be a weight limit restriction, which, again, to be clear, is made up. But again, I kind of understand that. And that usually lasts for about 12 weeks or so. There's some monitoring during that period. That would be an optimal time for cardiac rehab where that monitoring can take place by by professionals. They also and I don't like this even after that. So a person with stable coronary artery disease, they recommend against the Valsalva. And I'm like, I again, I understand why you say that. But one, it's not really a reasonable recommendation because they're going to do it anyway. And then two, because it's going to happen anyway. That means that all of the data you're seeing post heart attack, post, you know, coronary artery disease intervention on exercise. People are doing the Valsalvas and they do reasonably well. So unclear why this recommendation has persisted. So, yeah, we have we have good data showing that it is safe. It's currently part of the guidelines. So this is not really guidelines level advice. What should this person actually do? I'm going to I'm going to hit you with a few of my recommendations and see if you agree, Dr. B. I think they should consider a second opinion from a cardiologist who's familiar with not only cardiac rehab, but also like exercise in this position. Does that seem reasonable to you? Absolutely. Yes. I think the first step would be to ask the cardiologist who gave this recommendation, like why and what it's based on. Give specific reasons what the concern is from. And then you can seek out a second opinion because then when seeking that second opinion, you can say, here are the specific things that the first cardiologist said. What are your thoughts on that take? Because if there is, in fact, something about this case that we don't know. But if it is, again, just a run of the mill sort of situation, then, yeah, getting another opinion reasonable. I think if there are concerns that are still levied at that time, then I think it's also reasonable to request an exercise stress test to see if there's like an intensity cap that actually does make sense for this particular patient or at least otherwise prove that. Hey, look, you can tolerate elevating your heart rate, elevating your blood pressure, dynamically moving your body, you know, up to this certain level. Or perhaps there's no restrictions after that. To me, that would also be reasonable. What do you what do you think about that? If this patient is doing well, no complications, asymptomatic, not actually medically necessary. In fact, I would just tell them, even if the cardiologist is unaware of this stuff, talk to your primary and your primary care should be able to refer you to cardiac rehab. And then you can just go through the process there. Stress testing has very particular uses and indications. And this wouldn't really be a scenario, again, if the patient has no symptoms and I'm not concerned about ongoing issues that need to be intervened upon where that would be necessary. And it would, depending on the type of stress test, either be insufficient to answer the question or expose them to unnecessary radiation. So I would probably nix that and just say get cardiac rehab, whether from your primary care or from your cardiologist. Yeah, perhaps not worth buffing the chart just to appease the cardiologist. Yeah. But I think overall, you and I come at this from the same the same point, you know, insufficient activity, sedentary behavior itself is a cardiac risk factor. And deconditioning after a heart attack worsens long term outcomes. So there's a real risk there. And so for most people who are stable post heart attack, post MI, deconditioning from under exercise carries a greater long term risk than supervised progressively loaded exercise and even unsupervised after they sort of been cleared from that cardiac rehab sort of setting. So, yeah, getting a second opinion may be reasonable if the original cardiologist is unable to be sufficiently appeased with this explanation. Perhaps you can refer them to the barbell medicine plus subscription. We can educate them.