 d Every year, thousands of healthy, active individuals are told that their liver is failing based on a routine blood panel. The clinician sees the labs, the patient sees the panic in the doctor's eyes, next few weeks are filled with expensive imaging, viral screenings, and the looming threat of a biopsy. Now in medical school, we're taught that elevated transaminases, which are more correctly called liver-associated enzymes, mean liver disease. And for the fitness enthusiast, this often leads to a recommendation to stop working out or worse, misdiagnosis of drug-induced liver injury. What if the very thing making the patient healthy is what's making their labs look pathological? Today on the Barbell Medicine Podcast, we're breaking down a mystery case that highlights a massive blind spot in modern medicine where a completely expected lab finding is mistaken for clinical disease. And help us work through this problem like a pro, it's the second most handsome doctor in North America, Dr. Austin Baraki. We have a little bit of a different mystery case today. It's not an emergency, but it is a big problem in medicine. Many doctors apparently miss this with over half of physicians failing to include this in their differential diagnosis. And every miss costs a lot of money and potentially harm to the patient. That all being said, I always guess if you're going to get this or if you're not, you're 100% going to get this. Oh my, pressure's on. Okay. Don't let me down. But we can take the time and get our audience involved because I think they want to participate. So the question is, are you ready? I am ready. All right, let's do this. Dr. Baraki, you are working in clinic today and your first patient of the day comes in. He's a 39 year old, previously healthy male. He's presenting for lab follow-up. Six months ago, while in Asia, he went to a clinic for some nausea and an abdominal pain. He says he checked out fine, but they told him to follow up with his doctor when he got home because of his quote liver. He says he's been fine, but yeah, he's here to follow up on some labs. Yeah. Since he's been home, he subsequently went to another clinic, which tested his liver again. And they said he needed a liver biopsy, which freaked him out. And he heard that you're the best and he wanted a second opinion. So he hands you the lab readout and it's a quote liver panel test, which I'll send you now. And as you can see, the lab test from Asia nine months ago is pretty normal other than a modestly elevated alkaline phosphatase, which is 131 and gamma glutamyl transferase GGT, which is 68. Since he's been back in the States, he's had an additional set of liver tests done that continues to show modest elevations in alkaline phosphatase and GGT. But now also it shows elevated alanine transaminase, ALT and aspartate transaminase, AST. Both are one and a half to two times the upper limit of normal. Now, while you're interviewing the patient, you glance at his vital signs in the chart. Everything's normal. Perhaps he's been paying attention to the Barbell Medicine Vital 5. You also notice that he appears well without any gross abnormalities standing out to you. You're a great multitasker. He takes no medications or supplements. He denies any use of drugs. And he says he doesn't think he has any family history of disease that he knows of. Now, when you ask him about any current abdominal pain, nausea, weight loss, or recent illness, he says, nope. And then asks, hey man, should I be worried? So Dr. Baraki, I've got three questions for you. And if you're playing along at home, let's see if you can answer these questions. You should pause the podcast now. First question, what do you think about this patient? The second question is, can you take us through the different labs contained in a quote, liver panel and explain them to the audience? And the third question, what is your differential diagnosis? Sure, I would be happy to. So this is a pretty common situation that I'm faced with on a regular basis, a patient with abnormal, we'll say liver chemistries. So overall, we have a pretty young, pretty healthy patient presenting with new abnormalities in his liver chemistries, including both abnormalities in the transaminases and in the alkaline phosphatase. And this summary helps us with the general approach that I will kind of work through next. So your second question was to review these labs and to go through them. So be happy to. In general, the basic liver chemistries, we break down into two different sets of categories. One are what we call hepatocellular tests. And these are lab tests that are associated with the liver cells themselves. And when those cells get injured by some mechanism, they essentially die and release their contents into the blood. So this is similar to what we see in a lot of other areas of the body. For example, if somebody gets rhabdomyolysis from too much exercise that they're unprepared for, the muscle cells break down and release creatine kinase or CK into the blood. And so that CK becomes essentially a marker of muscle injury. When somebody has a myocardial infarction or a heart attack, those muscle cells die and release a particular protein called troponin into the blood. That is a marker of myocardial cell injury. When liver cells or hepatocytes are injured by some mechanism that I can get into shortly with the differential, they also release into the blood their contents that include things like ALT and AST. It's important to know though that these enzymes, ALT and AST are also found in other areas of the body, including in muscle, especially AST is also found in muscle. And so sometimes I've seen folks get tricked when somebody actually has rhabdo. They will often also have elevations in AST. And if it's really bad rhabdo, it'll also even have elevations in ALT. And people will freak out and think this person's in liver failure when more often it's just that they have such severe rhabdomyolysis that these enzymes that are actually involved in kind of a little bit of some Krebs cycle metabolism, I won't get that far into the weeds here. But these enzymes are mostly related to liver, but can also be seen, the elevations can also be seen with issues going on elsewhere in the body. So that's one thing that's worth pointing out. We know that ALT is a little bit more predominant in the liver than AST. And so when somebody that we can look at the pattern of elevation, so when the ALT is higher than the AST, I'm a little more concerned that maybe there's something going on with the liver. When AST is greater than ALT, it can still be liver, but I might actually also be considering things elsewhere in the body.