! So this actually was a question like, hey, how do bones heal, like, should we lift, you know, if we have a fracture? So when you break a bone, the standard device is protected, wait for the x-ray to clear and then gradually ease back in usually like six to 10 weeks. But that guidance doesn't tell us what happens after the sort of clinical union, you know, which is usually early on a few weeks in you get that callus that forms the real process of like remodeling and recovering. It's all of its mechanical strength takes, you know, months to years. So Austin, when you think about this, and maybe it's helpful to break down like the phases of healing and kind of what's going on under the hood, so to speak, when it comes to a fracture, can you walk our listenership through that? I can do my best. The early period after an acute fracture is a situation where there is appropriate inflammation going on. And this is what leads to a lot of the short-term symptoms. After the fracture, inflammation sensitizes our kind of nociceptors, our nerve endings in the area, and leads to pain. That leads to the protective response. You can also see swelling and redness and bruising and things like that. So that inflammatory phase is early on the first few days to a week or so, which is appropriate and healthy and needs to happen for healing to begin, to kind of clear up the debris and lay down what's called a soft callus, which is the initial early phase of healing that takes the next few weeks. As that soft callus kind of firms up, turns into what's called a hard callus over the next few weeks to a couple months, and then much more gradual remodeling that happens on an ongoing basis for the subsequent months to years beyond that. As we know, bone is a living tissue that is kind of turning over, adapting to the stress or lack of stress at all times. And it's impacted by lots of other things, our hormonal status, our thyroid hormone, parathyroid hormone, vitamin D status, calcium status, all sorts of other things that can have impacts as well as loading and, again, unloading as really pertinent factors. Yeah. Yeah. And so, you know, people will end up after the callus is formed and then, you know, a few more weeks go by and, you know, they go back to the doctor and they'll get an x-ray and say, oh, look, yeah, it's healed. You're cleared. But at that point, it's really still kind of like a disorganized bone, you know, it's made up of a bunch of different stuff. And then over time, over the next months and, you know, and up to years, the bone just keeps remodeling to sort of reorganize itself. It does respond to mechanical stress. We call that Wolf's Law. So the question really here is, should the person immobilize themselves entirely? Is this friend or foe? And really what we're kind of targeting here is what's known as mechanotransduction. Effectively, the muscles pull on the bone, the bone experiences a stress, and then the bones adapt to that. If you remove that stress, you remove the load, you remove that mechanotransduction signal. And so that, you know, kicks off a whole cascade of different pathways that are all beyond the scope of this particular answer, but have some interesting acronyms. But effectively, you can train the other side of the body or the unaffected aspects of the body and still get some of those effects. We call this cross-education. It's best characterized at the level of the muscle, but there's some emerging evidence at the level of the bone. We call this like sort of cross-body phenomenon, cross-education phenomenon. When you train the limb that's not immobilized, you actually get a preservation of strength in the immobilized limb and a preservation of muscle size in the immobilized limb. So there's been a bunch of interesting studies on this. Some in folks who actually don't have a fracture, don't have an injury, whatever, they just actually cast the person's limb. I have to suspect that these are just exercise science students in college. And they were like, hey, we're going to cast you for like 11 days and see what happens. And then I would just want to be randomized to the group that got to exercise. That's all I'm saying. Because you see a loss of strength in the immobilized limb when people don't exercise the rest of their body up to 15% in some of these studies. Whereas if the person was exercising the rest of the body, they see almost no loss in strength. And they tend to preserve most of their muscle mass versus seeing atrophy. And this compounds when people are actually like immobilized for some sort of fracture. It seems to be even a larger effect. And again, because the muscles pull on the bone, you get that mechanotransduction sort of stress. And that should theoretically increase in this sort of bony turnover and bone remodeling. Whether that actually happens has not been adequately studied in my estimation. There's some small signal in the data that this may actually, I don't want to say increases the like recovery speed because that's more complicated. Like what is recovery? It's not just that the bone, the cat, the callus appears on the x-ray or that the bone appears to be intact. It's the person's function. So I would feel comfortable saying continuing to exercise the unaffected areas of the body does increase recovery. Does it increase like the bony, you know, callus formation and it gets organized a little bit better? That to me is more speculative. But I don't know. What do you think? Should people who have an immobilized limb exercise the rest of their body? What do you think about that? Absolutely. I think you and I would both be doing it vigorously to whatever extent was realistic or feasible. There's no recovery benefit that I would expect on an immobilized limb by also immobilizing the rest of the body. There would only be downsides to that. And so we do this whether there's a fracture or even outside of the context of fracture in many other situations where, for example, you know, I know Dr. Miles who works with a lot of post-op ACL folks. And he's like, yeah, we got a whole rest of your body that we can like, you know, keep fit, build fitness while we're going through the more traditional, you know, again, very early on, very conservative, like exercise limitations on an immediate post-op ACL. But we can bench. We can do all sorts of other things with the rest of the body. So he really leans into that. And I fully agree with that. Yeah. Yeah, I will be curious to see as more data emerges on, you know, again, actual like bone healing times for this. But my prediction would be that the more vulnerable the patient population we're talking about here. So whether that's detrained, low levels of fitness, low bone mineral density, low whatever, right? To older person, you know, fall on outstretched hand. They got a broken scaphoid. Now they got a, you know, a hard cast on their upper extremity. Uh, they're likely to benefit the most from not only initiating, but continuing to do exercise with the unaffected part of their body. Uh, but there's still going to be some positive benefits for those who are maybe less vulnerable. And again, the idea of not exercising. Bad idea generally. Yep. The hot take here in the barbell medicine direct line, not exercising generally bad idea. Gotta be careful. Gotta be careful.