 If one, if one man, if one man, if one man, if one man, if one man, if one man, were to fight a gorilla, boy, I do not think it would go well. Man, who sometimes claims to want to dominate the earth, and thinks of himself as the apex, apex predator, with all of his intellectual capacity, and social media profiles, and good to above average credit scores, no, I do not think it would look good. It would probably be a much bloodier version of Loki vs. the Hulk from Avengers 1, except Loki would more than likely not be in one piece. I woke up this morning and there seemed to be a burning question in the mind of every internet citizen out there. Who would win in a fight? 100 gorillas? No, 100 men or a single gorilla? Could 100 men beat a single gorilla? And since the world's greatest philosophers were talking this over, I want to chime in with all of my gorilla knowledge, which is not very much. A gorilla-ologist? I am not. I do know some stuff about fitness, but there is not a whole lot of crossover between human fitness and gorillas. In fact, my most up-to-date gorilla knowledge is from a gorilla anime I recently started watching. And the anime is about this girl who gets gorilla powers through this gorilla deity in her world. And honestly, it's a pretty good show. There were a couple of gorilla facts that they keep repeating, and it's a good one for me to rest to. Now granted, I've only watched like one episode and there's only three out so far. And with anime, it's pretty hard to tell whether it's going to be a somewhat normal anime or a very weird anime. So as more episodes come out and I watch more, and if it gets weird, I'll come back and delete the section. But anyway, that's my vast gorilla knowledge. And I know some of you might be thinking, wait a second, this isn't the fitness content we were promised. I think we've been hoodwinked, bamboozled, flimflammed even. And I can see how you feel that way, and it's not my intention to flimflam you. But my editor lives in Spain. They're having a massive power outage right now. I honestly didn't sleep that well yesterday, but I still wanted to film today, and this seemed fun, and I wanted to chime in. I've been trying to do more fun stuff lately anyway. And pretty much as soon as this question came to be, it was met with a litany of other questions. Like, well, how big is the gorilla? What if the gorilla knew Brazilian jiu-jitsu? And perhaps more importantly, who are these hundred men? Are they just average men that are teleported here? Presumably unarmed, right? And are they a hundred office job workers? A hundred fitness influencers? A hundred MMA fighters? And I think the answer to the question will probably depend somewhat on those variables. And I can tell you right now, as someone who is sometimes accused of being a fitness influencer, and if I want to make fun of someone, I want to make fun of myself, we would not do very well against a single gorilla. Fitness influencers might be above average in strength, athleticism, maybe even physical appearance. But I think we'd be so busy trying to get likes and social engagement out of it that we would not survive. Like and subscribe for more, we would say. Chat, should I go touch gorilla? Someone might say. Or one million subs and I will try to ride the gorilla. And as a result, I don't think a single one of us would live. But I admit, you'd probably get a lot of views. And perhaps not, but hopefully that might reassure some people who are quick to jump to the gorilla's defense. Like, why are we picking on this poor gorilla? We should leave it alone. And I agree with that. We should leave gorillas alone because most times a single human, maybe 10, 20, 30, I'm not sure about 100, would probably not do very well against a gorilla. We would be the ones getting harmed in that scenario. And if we pick the fight, I can't even say necessarily wrongly so. But for most of the discussions I've seen on this, I think people may be talking a little bit past each other. Maybe myself here too. Maybe I'm not bringing up some things that are really top of mind for you right now. But I think some people assume different things about the scenario. Some people assume they'll have weapons. Others may assume they may not. Others assume the average person is stronger or weaker than the average person actually is. So I think we should establish all of the variables and whether or not we are able to control this hive mind of 100 people. Because probably what would happen if you just teleport any group of people randomly into just a field like this with a gorilla, most of them would run, myself included. I'd be like, dang, that's a gorilla. I think I should get out of here. Like, no offense to the gorilla. You might be a very nice gorilla. You seem like a very nice gorilla. But if you're going to go ape, maybe even understandably so, I should probably not be around for that immediate moment. And as some of my friends say, it doesn't mean your mama and Jesus don't love you. So take care, gorilla. Gorilla. So 100 random people, I don't think we're winning that one because most people would run and the gorilla might hunt down a couple people, but they would probably run too. If we were 100 prepared random people, we probably still aren't winning that one. So the question for me, the more interesting one, is could 100 people, 100 unarmed men who are prepared and know what they're doing, win in a fight against a gorilla, period? And my intuitive answer was yes. That's why I first thought, hmm. I would think yes, because in my mind, I would think there's probably some tribe somewhere that have hunted gorillas before. Presumably, it was probably far fewer than 100 men. And I looked into it. It was hard to get exact details that are confirmed on this. This is where someone else would probably be able to chime in. But I don't think that many tribes hunted gorillas. And in fact, some of them really respected gorillas. And I hesitate to say worship gorillas, but maybe some did. And that was presumably with some non-firearm weapons. So I think spears, bows, maybe long-range weapons, maybe even nets of that sort. So some of that might be allowed depending on your setup. Gorillas are pretty darn strong. I'm pretty sure how strong this gorilla is probably going to be one of the most searched terms maybe of today or over the weekend. And the numbers are going to vary. I like this one because it gave very specific numbers. I know it's supposed to be an average, but it gave very specific numbers. Like we have calculated this to the tiniest detail. It is exactly this amount, no more, no less. But it's kind of like asking how strong is a human. It's going to really depend on the human because it can vary a lot. But yes, you can spend different variables. But 100 trained people, fit, trained in the art of guerrilla warfare, you get it, I think could potentially stand a chance. But I personally think a huge variable is whether or not the 100 men could stay calm, stay focused, and not run away when they see their comrades torn apart. Because gorillas can be pretty dangerous. But yes, I also agree that we should leave them alone, even if they weren't dangerous. Just don't worry, I have no desire to fight a guerrilla under many, many different circumstances. I do not want to face off against the guerrilla. Hopefully none of us ever really have to. It just seems like a fun question that a lot of people were discussing. And I honestly am not very serious, if you can tell, with my answer at all. So let me know in the question, try to be nice to each other, who you think would win. Have a beautiful day, my friends. Thank you.