 The fact is that many of us still have limiting beliefs that hold us back from reaching our full potential, and unfortunately stop a lot of beginners from even getting started. And without them, we'd be able to get to where we want a lot faster. So it's in our best interest to find the ones that apply to us and fix them if possible, and that's why I made this video for you or a friend. The first is that fitness isn't worth it, but wait, this is sometimes true, and here's what I mean. Let's say I were to ask you for $10, and in return, I would give you $100. Nothing else. Would you take this deal? And real quick, just actually answer in your head, because this will help. Because some of you will say, no, that sounds like a scam, and others will say, yeah, I'll do that. I'll make $90 for free, basically. So who is right about that? And my answer might not be what you think, and this is why I put it first. Because if you think of your life as full of different decisions and choices and trade-offs you can make, and the reality is that some of them are scams. Some of them are not worth it or will actively harm you. But others are good decisions and good deals that you wish you made long ago. Similarly, there are some beliefs that you have that are true and will stop you from getting a scam. If you were to know this is a scam and not to take it, and others, after you learn about it, if you were to learn this wasn't a scam, you're like, man, I wish I knew about this a while ago. You ever watch a TV show or start a new habit, and you're like, man, I wish I did this five or ten years ago. Life and fitness is full of things like that. And when I started realizing this and realizing the faster I identified these beliefs, the better my life would get, I started challenging more of my own beliefs to identify which ones were right and which ones were opportunities. So fitness is not one decision, but actually multiple decisions. There is a cost to working out, but it's almost always very worth it for you. But there are some decisions that might help you a little bit, like buying supplements, for example, where you might not think that it's quite as worth it and you might think it's too expensive and that's okay. This is not all or nothing. The next is about not having enough time to work out. And this one's a little bit tricky because the internet is full of fitness trainers saying that, oh, you can get a good workout in 40 minutes, 30 minutes, 20 minutes. I would even say that you can get enough sets to trigger muscle growth and get stronger in like 10 minutes. And you're like, well, that's not optimal. I'd be like, well, is it more optimal to do nothing? But there's kind of this idea of like, there are no excuses, you have enough time. But I feel like a lot of people beginning will feel like that's unrealistic. They're like, well, you can do it in 10 minutes. I had to drive to the gym. I had to get dressed. I have all these things. So the reality that I found is like, yes, fitness can take a short amount of time after you get used to it. But if you're feeling like you're taking a lot more time than other people, that's okay. You're not abnormal in that sense. Because the truth is that what you're feeling is probably right. It probably does take you more time when you're starting out to work out than other people who are more experienced. And this is because you're actually doing two different things right now. You're doing the actual workout and you're also learning about working out. So if you go to the gym, you're like trying different machines and learning the technique. And a lot of them aren't even really good sets. You just take several sets to even figure out like, oh, that's how that's how it works. Don't worry, a lot of people are on the same boat there. But because you're doing those things, it will take more time at first. But after you get used to it, if you're like, man, that feels great, but I just can't afford all those hours every week. I have too much stuff going on. Your workouts can become more efficient as you get more experienced, meaning they can take less time. If you want, you might decide you love it and you will make more time for it. But I just want to be real with you because there is an upfront cost to learning to work out. It might take a little time for you to feel, oh, this is how this movement should feel. And this is what it feels like when I'm working on muscle near failure. But over time, you dial this in and when you need to be more efficient, like I need to be in and out in 30 minutes, you can do that. If you're working out at home, you can be in and out in like 10, 15 minutes, depending on what you want to do. But someone brought up a very good point that when people say not enough time, what they actually mean sometimes is not enough energy or not enough energized time. And that's a very legitimate thing that a lot of people can relate to. So it's not just an excuse to bring out the old coffee cup, although it is nice because you might have heard that, oh no, workouts can actually energize you. You'll have more energy after working out. But then you try it and you're like, man, I don't know if that's a limiting belief because I don't feel that someone just went for a jog and they feel great. I feel terrible. I feel exhausted for the rest of the day. So that is true. That can be true. There's not necessarily anything wrong with you, but two different things to that. One is you can adjust to that. So yes, the first time you work out, especially if you're new to something or you go a little bit too hard, you can feel extra sore and extra exhausted. That is normal and you may want to ease yourself in. And your body will also adjust to that over a few weeks or a few months to the point where you won't feel nearly as sore and because you're used to it, you might feel energized from doing that. You might feel weird when you don't work out. And the second part is that you might just be doing the exhausting workouts. There are some exercises that are just basically more taxing on us like hill sprints, very fast hill sprints, deadlifts, heavy squats. And if you've done any of those, you might be like, yeah, they're training on you. Now you might feel more alive or more energized afterwards, but you spent energy doing those. And when you're really pushing yourself, they can feel draining. And I like all those exercises that I just mentioned, but you don't have to do them for fitness, especially starting out. So if you just want to get into it, you can go for a walk. You can do some pushups or wall pushups on a break. You can do some body weight squats. And afterwards, after you've eased yourself in, you're like, man, I do feel good because the body is designed to move. You want to move. The synovial fluid in our joints largely circulates when we move. So it can be good for us. And after you get started into that and you get used to moving and your body might want to crave a little bit more, then you can ease yourself into some heavier weighted exercises and some exercises where you really push yourself on days where you feel like it. And next is not having enough money. I feel like I've used money as a prop in this video more than I have usually, but I saw some and was like, I will show the YouTube this money. Gravity is free. So you can do body weight exercise at home. You can do pushups, pull-ups, squats, leg raises, bridges, and twists. And if those are too easy or too hard for you, you have progressions to adjust the difficulty of those exercises. You can use our routine or you can look up others on the internet. There should be plenty to get you started and you can try to eat a balanced diet and get plenty of rest. But there's a follow-up to this. So some people don't mention, but it's okay where people say, why don't I want to do that? I want to use the optimal training technology that we have. I want to go to a gym. And if you can afford gym or you have some dumbbells or a friend's gym that you can use safely, by all means do that. I actually like weights. So I, despite being called hybrid calisthenics, I use weights as props and exercises. All the time in my videos. But a lot of people who are getting into fitness, it's unlikely they are beyond body weight, even if they sometimes think so. If you can do plenty of push-ups, you can do plenty of pull-ups, plenty of squats, and you've worked up perhaps to some harder variations of those, like one arm pull-ups, one arm push-ups, one leg squats. Then yeah, feel free to explore some weights, but until then, there's plenty of stuff that you can do with body weight. Again, weights are great for training specific movement patterns. It's just changing the weight so you don't have to change progressions. But what you really need to progressively overload, make progress, is you just need increasing resistance. And that can be weights. Weights can be great for that, but it can also be changing leverage, changing angles, and more. That's the idea of progressive calisthenics and doing different progressions. And again, use what you have. Use what you like. If you have access to a gym and you want to do gym exercises, please do. A lot of people can get great results from that. But if you want to get fit and you're not currently working out, and we mentioned in the first part, that fitness is worth it. So the vast majority of people, and you're not doing anything now, then you might as well do some body weight exercise. You could argue that it's not optimal, but serious question is doing nothing more optimal. Possibly not. We have a free fitness routine on our website if you want to check it out. And an app version if you want to be guided through each workout day by day, when to rest, when to move on, based on your feedback. But I want to show you this new feature we're doing where I'm putting in different workouts that people can try and you can add a custom one. That's how I ended up with this masterpiece. And we're adding the ability to add pretty much any workout. So you can put any workout in here and it'll walk you through it. And I was thinking about adding a feature for people to share with others. Like you get a code or a link or something, you can get their workouts. That way, the more experienced of you can create a workout for someone and share it and they can get in the app. So it doesn't have to be the one I use. It can be any workout that you're doing, like gymnastics, rock climbing, even jogging. And I think it's cool, but I am different. So let me know if you're interested in that, because I would love to get the community making workouts and sharing with them with each other. And the next is that you need to be sore in order to make progress. So I've mentioned this before and it's interesting. Some people just don't believe me, but you don't need to be sore in order to make progress. If you want to get very, very, very sore, find an unstable movement. Do it at a long muscle length where your muscles are stretched out and just kind of shake there on a movement that you're not familiar with. And you'll probably be very sore the next day. You know what also can make you very sore? Jogging a long, long distance if you're not used to it. If you just decide to try to run a marathon despite no training, you'll be very sore the next day. And yet you probably won't grow that much muscle from running that marathon. In fact, you might lose some muscle. And as we get more fit and we get used to a new workout and the new movements, it's quite normal for us to not feel soreness. And this is actually good for us. We don't need to chase soreness. In fact, you might feel barely sore. You might feel your muscle worked, but not necessarily sore. And this can be good because it allows you to push more, do more reps and lift more weight during those workouts. It can be a good thing. You don't have to believe me. You can look this up. Soreness can indicate muscle damage, but contrary to popular belief, muscle damage isn't the primary driver of muscle growth and progress. That's generally thought to be mechanical tension nowadays. And if you're like, I don't know what that means, then you can just push yourself during each workout. You can push yourself during each set. And if you continue to make progress, then things are okay. Don't worry if you're not too sore. And another one is no pain, no gain. And if you feel like you like that, then you can rephrase it to no effort, no gain. Or you can even say no discomfort, no gain. Because the feeling of pushing your muscles to their limit and triggering growth and progress can feel like exertion. Right? You feel the muscle burning and like, ah, it can feel good, but not necessarily painful in the way of an injury. Those are two distinct but related sensations. And I think it can be good to learn which is which. I did have a video on how to do that. Basically, you can hold a weight for a prolonged period of time. And you're like, oh, you feel the muscle burning. That can be exertion. But you feel sharp stabbing pain. You don't need that for growth. And in fact, actual injury can hold you back. It stops you from making progress. So lots of pain, less gain. So here's an interesting one that I'll phrase as a question. Do you need to work out exercise to lose weight? And the answer, I believe, is no. It's actually quite clearly no. You don't need to work out to lose weight. And you actually don't need to work out to gain weight. You can do that largely through adjusting what you eat and drink. Now, of course, I still think you should work out. And if you want to build muscle, then you do need to work out. But purely losing weight, you can do with adjusting what you eat alone. Exercise can help. And it's good for you. And I have a whole channel about that. But the reason this is important is because I believe adjusting your diet, as in what you regularly eat, is how you can lose weight. If you don't want to lose weight, that's OK. Cool. You know, with your life, you can do whatever you like. I'm happy for you. But this is a big belief that some people have that isn't even limiting. It's almost like the opposite. But they get started doing push-ups and pull-ups and like, I'm not losing weight. And they feel discouraged by that. They're getting better at push-ups and pull-ups, which is cool. You're getting stronger. But they're not losing weight. The number isn't going down on the scale. In fact, it might go up a little bit and that can discourage them. It's because you're training to get better at push-ups and pull-ups. Right? And there might be a little bit of inflammation. And you're not gaining fat, probably, especially if it's in a couple of days. That might be a little bit of water retention. So if you have weight-related goals and you're like, I don't know who to trust. You can talk to your doctor about this. You can confirm. But if you have weight-related goals, up or down, you usually have to adjust something about what or how you eat. You don't have to starve yourself and you don't have to overeat. It may take some time to find the right thing for you that can work sustainably long-term. But it is there. You can theoretically exercise, like run or walk, to burn off calories. But that's also assuming you don't eat more to compensate for that extra energy you're using. There's also an idea that even people who are relatively experienced in the gym will sometimes feel. They are working out. They feel great. Then for some reason, either they get sick or they get busy and they have to move and they stop working out for a while. And they get back in the gym and like, man, I lost all my progress. Right? It's all gone. I can't lift nearly as much. The number might be going the wrong way on the scale. Either you gained too much weight or you lost too much weight. It's like, I have to start from zero now. It's very unlikely you have to start from zero, unless you've been gone for like years and years and years and years. And even then, it's different. Muscle that you've built before that you lost will come back much faster, like 10 times faster. I don't know what the exact percentage is. It probably depends on the person and the muscle. But that lost progress you feel is sometimes just you relearning it. You know how if you haven't done something in a while, it might take you a little bit to relearn it, even though it might seem simple, like something as simple as a bench press, it might take you a couple of sessions to be like, ah, okay. So this is how it's supposed to feel. Even if you theoretically know it, your body might have to relearn it. So you can learn to skill a lot faster. Your body will get stronger a lot faster. Also, if you have weight related goals, the number on a scale doesn't always reflect your true progress. So carbs are water heavy as in carbohydrate. So if you're trying to lose weight and then you eat a bowl of pasta, you're like, oh my gosh, I gained three pounds. It is extremely unlikely unless you ate like several pounds of pasta and you gained three pounds of fat in a single day. That's, I don't know if that's possible. If it's possible, it's on the edge if possible. But I know it's easy to feel discouraged. So measure progress over weeks or months, not necessarily days. There's another idea that people will laugh at you. Like people will laugh like, ha ha, look at that person trying to get fit. There are some people out there like that, but on the internet, right? They're leaving comments about this, but you don't have to interact with them. You can exercise in the privacy of your own home. But in the off chance that you go to a gym and some people are laughing at you, most people in fitness who are experienced are actually laughing at them. People who actually work out long term and are trying to teach others have seen many people at your skill level, below, above, of all kinds. And they learned that we want to meet people where they're at. Yes, sometimes we want to encourage them. We want to motivate them. Some people want a little bit of a stricter motivation. I guess some people call it tough love. But if these people don't know you and they're laughing at you, I don't want to deny that those people exist. I think they are in the minority, but I understand they can see much louder. But people who are actually good think like world champion athletes. A lot of them are laughing at those people. Those people are usually considered a joke. And I want the best for them, but I also want them to get better. It's hard to just convince someone on this, but you can ask fitness professionals on this. Laughing at someone who's just trying to get better, just trying to work out is heavily frowned upon in the professional fitness community, in the fitness community in general, because a lot of them started exactly where you are. Those people are usually immature and laughing at others to compensate for their own self fear, self doubt and insecurity. It doesn't always excuse it, but that's sometimes why it's there. And really, most people, for better or for worse, in a good way, are not really thinking about you at all. Most people are focused on themselves. Like even at a higher level, they're thinking about something. Their boss said to them, or their friends said to them. Their spouse said to them, like, what's going on? So they usually focus on themselves rather than others. And the last one I'll touch upon today is the idea that you're somehow different. This thing that works for others will not work for you. And this one's in, I think I said for everyone, these are all interesting ones, but these are sometimes true. This is part of the art form part of fitness, where a tricep extension or a bicep curl, might work well for other people, but you might have some kind of genetic thing. You might have some proportion thing, where it doesn't quite work as well for you. And this is why you can do a modification on an exercise. The art form is selecting and finding that for you. And that's actually quite an enjoyable part. One of the things that you will enjoy and experience as you get more experienced in fitness is learning to find different exercises. And I really like this one. And like, people say, well, it's not, you're like, no, no, no, I like it. I'm going to keep doing it. And the best exercises for you are going to be the ones that you can do sustainably. So if you find something that's theoretically optimal, but you just don't like it for a reason, or it might hurt because you have some prior injury or tightness, then it's not optimal if you're not doing it. So it has to be something that you would like. So there is something that, there is something to that, where you want to find the ones that work for you. But by and large, I mean this in the best possible way, we have a lot more in common than we have different. Our muscle fibers, our bone structure, we have way more in common than we have different. They're made of the same things. And if everyone else seems to like this exercise or this workout plan, and for whatever reason, you want to like it, but it's not working for you, that can be very real. There might be any number of reasons. However, the process of improving and getting more fit can apply to the vast, vast, vast majority of people. I actually cannot think of an example of someone who literally cannot benefit from fitness in some way. So it's a tricky one because there are some things that may not apply to you, and there is an art form in finding that. But I think the important takeaway from that is that there is almost certainly a variation or something else that you can do to improve yourself, workout, feel better, and be awesome. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.