I feel like every few months the internet opens up and drops us a new health hack, some new supplement or morning routine add-on that is supposed to make your life better and can sometimes make your life better. So, when I say health hack, I mean anything you got from an internet meme to something your doctor suggested you do. So, you can define it in different ways, but I'm putting it under quite a wide umbrella. But I just don't really get excited about them because over time I found a few things that laid the foundation for how I worked, lived, and played. And these three things or so worked well enough that it made me kind of hesitant to mess with them or change them. So I just want to share them here because they didn't make sense to me at first. So I wanted to share what I learned. And the first was adjusting what and how I eat which seems extremely boring to some people and bored me because I like a lot of people thought I had a better than average relatively healthy diet. Diet meaning eating patterns and what and how we eat. I notice a lot of people think well I have a pretty healthy diet, right? I eat pretty well and I do try to eat a relatively balanced diet. But when it comes to health hacks, it is usually some kind of juice or drink or supplement or new food that is supposed to imbue us with some kind of nutrient that we're not otherwise getting, which I don't depending on what it is, it there may or may not be some validity to that. But other than just having a balanced diet, the most boost I got in quality of life and energy wasn't necessarily changing and getting those new fancy items. It was actually organizing when I ate. It took me a few years to get this down because I was trying to gain weight usually. So, I didn't want to reduce the amount that I ate during the day, but I would eat different meals at different times and I would feel tired afterwards. Sometimes called a carb crash where if I eat a very heavy fatty or carb heavy meal, which is not necessarily bad for you, but if I eat it early in the day, I just feel tired. I'm like, man, I want to get this done. And even in school, I had to do the studying and this book report, but I just feel tired. I need a nap. Right? I got a lot of benefit from finding the foods that I like, organizing when I wanted to eat them in a way where I wouldn't feel very tired afterwards, and generally have a larger meal for dinner in the evening. And that sounds obvious, but it ultimately ended up being a pretty big change for me. It was quite big when I learned how to organize this in a way that I both enjoyed and also worked well in my schedule. So, if that's you and you're like, "Man, after lunch, I don't feel like doing anything." And if you don't feel like doing anything and you can do nothing, then by all means take a break. But sometimes you may have something that you want to do. You might even hang out with friends, then you may want to experiment with different things that you eat earlier in the day and you still have the wonderful heavier foods that I love than you might love later in the day where you may have more open schedule to be able to rest at that time. And there actually is another food and drink thing, but I'll bring that up later because the next one is actually probably the most important one on my list, which is adjusting how I sleep. And first of all, you might be like, "Well, wait a second, H. Do you even YouTube? You're supposed to put the thing at the end so people watch until the end. I don't know, man. I I want to talk about it now." And you might also think like, "Wait, this is boring because it's like food and sleeve this stuff. I already know." But it's not that. It's more like how I interpreted and how I found ways to get better food and better sleep. And in this case, I kept trying to get earlier sleep. I some of you may have heard me talk about this before. I kept trying to sleep earlier cuz people said, you know, if you just sleep earlier, then you'll have more energy. You can get up earlier. You can do all this stuff. And I fought this for years. And there were times the body is surprisingly adaptable where I slept like 5 6 7 8 hours 9 hours earlier than I do now. But I would eventually revert back. I have found that at least at this point in my life, my opinion is that I naturally skew sleeping a little bit later. So I just tend to work later cuz I want to get more stuff done and I enjoy doing that by the way and I sleep later which you're like well that seems like a luxury and it certainly is. It's a privilege. Not everyone gets to do that depending on your place and circumstances in life right now. So I do consider myself lucky and blessed for that. But it also took some time to organize my schedule around that. So on one hand, yes, it is a blessing and a privilege. But even when I was in college, I remember I could choose the timing of my classes. I didn't always have all the open schedules, but it took me a while to be like, well, no, no, I want to actively schedule stuff after the point where I feel like doing them. And it took me a while to realize that wasn't for me. It wasn't being lazy. It was just how my schedule wanted to be. I wanted to do my appointments and meetings and stuff and classes and stuff in the afternoon. It just worked better for me. Or at least in school, maybe late morning and then early afternoon, maybe late afternoon for some classes. It just worked better for me. So, health hack number two for this video was just over time trying to set up my schedule to where I could sleep until I wake up. I still have stuff to this day that wakes me up. I have stuff in the middle of the night sometimes that I have to do and I get woken up at random times. I know it's just a process over time. It's more like I try to rather than boom, I immediately do this. But I have to tell you, this made a huge difference even more than the carb crash avoidance thing. When I started getting more rest, that superseded any kind of benefit from any kind of supplement, any kind of powder, any kind of drink um that I tried in the past, which again may have helped a bit, but just getting more rest. Usually, I think there's like numbers over like people are so chronically exhausted they don't even know they're exhausted and it's worsening their health, their heart, their blood pressure, and multiple other metrics in their body are suffering because they're not getting all the rest. If at all possible, I would recommend consider allowing yourself to sleep until you wake up, which I would say is not the same as laziness or whatever you may be worried about is reorganizing your schedule. Just my opinion. But the next thing I want to touch on was something that I thought of when I was thinking about the other food and diet thing, but it wasn't working out. So, I'm adding it here. And that was related to feeling exhausted during the day. And a lot of people compensate with caffeine. And you may have heard me talk about, especially if you've been around here for a while. So, I would cycle my coffee, meaning I would drink it every other day. And there are some days where I just wouldn't drink it. And the reason I started doing this was because when I started drinking coffee in my teens, I was like, "Wait a second." I got so used to the caffeine waking me up that I needed more and more in order to feel the effects. Like, oh man, like I got some coffee. I felt great the next day. Now I'm tired and exhausted. Now I need some more coffee just to feel normal. And eventually I would build up a tolerance and I would say, "Well, I just need a little bit more coffee to add on to that." I was like, "Wait a second. I'm just always drinking coffee and just adding more and more and more." And rather than drinking all this coffee just feel normal. If we're going to do that, why don't I just not drink coffee at all? Which is something that some people do. And if that's you, that's awesome. And you don't have to start. But if you are drinking coffee, something that helped me early on was cycling my coffee. So I would allow myself to withdraw from the coffee after that one day. I feel a little bit down, but it helped me from building up this like increasing tolerance that I at least had for a little bit in my early teens. But later on when I started getting more sleep and I recognized that doing this was giving me some spikes and valleys to where I was like, "Oh, creative, cool, a little bit more tired. Oh, creative, cool, wonderful. Enjoy life." Some people make the observation that it's a socially accepted drug. And yeah, you could definitely make that argument. I think there are a lot of things that are socially accepted drugs. Some may or may not be good for you. But after I started getting more rest, I was like, hm, maybe I could have a little bit more of a stable balance instead of like really high peaks and really low valleys. So, I started drinking tea on the off days. So, I have coffee, tea, coffee, tea, coffee, tea, which seems to work pretty well for me right now, especially when I have more of a routine thing that I do daytoday. Um, so I'm a little bit more consistent with what I do. Now, once again, if you don't drink caffeine, you don't drink coffee, you don't drink tea, you don't have to start, right? And especially, I would say if anything else, all of that seems to work better if you get more rest regularly. Again, it took me a while as someone who makes his own schedule. really. It took me a while to build up to where I could consistently try, at least on good days, to sleep until I wake up and make an effort to get more sleep that way. If I'm chronically exhausted, any kind of coffee or caffeine scheduling or cycling is really just a band-aid for that. So, I try to fix it at the foundation before I tried other stuff. And the last thing is not really something I had to change. It was something I may have shifted and noticed early on and now I'm observing but is something that a lot of people do or don't do and that is changing how and when I work out. If you are on this channel, if you've been on the internet, you may have heard, you probably have heard that exercise is good for you and it gives you energy. And I would say it is good for you, but exercising itself going through the motions by definition should be expending energy. Now, it can make you healthier and able to do more over time. But something you may want to consider, especially if you've heard this, but haven't really felt it. You're like, "Wait a second. I should just get a great workout early in the day so I'm have more energy." And if that's working for you, please keep doing it. However, I think there is some nuance for what kind of workout people are talking about. And this confuses some people cuz they're like, "I thought working out earlier today and it would give me more energy." First of all, if you're waking up early, if you're doing morning workouts, which is what I did for a while, and I was getting more tired as a result because I wasn't sleeping as well. Those are not necessarily required for health, right? You don't necessarily have to do it in the day or in early in the morning if you are cutting your sleep for that. I would personally prefer to get that extra 30 minutes or an hour of rest, especially if you need it rather than wake yourself up early to do a morning workout, especially if you can do that workout later somewhere in the day. I know it's based on your schedule. It's not super easy. Believe me, I get it. These are just ideas that you can think about and maybe implement later. Now, that said, if you're getting enough rest or you just prefer it, by all means, do your morning workout. The second part of that I would say is that it depends on the type of exercise that you're doing. I have noticed that when someone says, "Wow, I feel a lot more energy after my workout, I'm ready to go." It may depend on what they've done and what they plan to do afterwards. And what I mean is, uh, when I do like jogging, jumping rope, or battle rope thing that I want to try, I haven't really done it, but it looks fun. And some weightlifting, depending on what parts that you're working on, that can feel energizing. That can feel good. And believe me, I still feel good after a workout. However, something like a heavy leg day where you're maxing out, you're really pushing yourself to your limit and then afterwards if you're trying to do creative work, I have personally not found that to be the best, right? And I once again, if this is working for you, please by all means keep doing it. But I want to mention this because if that's something you've experienced and you're like, "Huh, everyone else says they have more energy after I work out, but I just did a squat PR or deadlift PR and I am wiping out on this like art exam or like essay." You may not be alone in that. I a lot of people have noticed that. So heavy workouts that really wipe you because you are pushing yourself to your physical limit there, you may want to do after something critical. So, I had a friend talking about this and he said, "Yeah, he would do his like squat and deadlift PRs and a heavy workout right before a sports game." And I'm like, "Why would you do that?" And he said, "Well, it gets me warmed up." I was like, "Yeah, I feel like you can warm up without hitting your PR, right?" He was like, "No, no, no. Cuz like I like I I feel like I can do more." I was like, "Well, if you're pushing yourself during your workout, shouldn't you be a little bit more wiped after your workout if you're adequately pushing yourself because the goal is to do that and come back stronger?" I don't know. There's a fitness routine on our website. It can help you build up the push-ups, pull-ups, squats, and more. Check it out if you think it can help. And I have a fitness app version to walk you through those exercises. And there are a lot more things that I want to do, but I work on this thing almost daily. So, I might start sharing what I'm doing this week. I want to go in through the text and adjust some of the graphics so it looks a little better and rewrite some of the exercise tutorials because I would rephrase things just slightly. Now, here's our web tune if you want to check it out. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my