 Many of you are stronger than you realize, but you're just held back a bit by your grip strength. You may have heard that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, and for many people, that's their grip strength. To the point where someone might think they can't do a pull-up or lift their goal weight yet, but they may have the arm strength and the back strength, but because their grip gives out, they can't. Yet. Now, many people realize this, and they want to build a stronger grip, and that's why there's all kinds of grip-training devices on the market, and a lot of them are pretty cool, but you don't necessarily need them, and not everyone wants to buy them. You can build a very strong grip with this body weight and calisthenics. So just using a few items from around the house, I want to show you like five different exercises to strengthen your grip, starting with something that almost everyone can do, and ending with one that I haven't seen anyone do in real life for the full time, but I'm sure some of you can, so let me know. Okay, the first one you can try if you have a railing or low pull-up bar or something sturdy and safe at home, is just a lean hang, where you're not quite hanging off the ground, and most people can do this, and it might feel too easy, but I know some people are just starting off, and I wanted to start with something that was a little bit more accessible. An easy way to progress this, if you have something you can put your feet on, or just a lower bar, is to lean further down. So generally, the lower the bar, the harder it will be, and I deliberately left my ring on, so I can show you that I recommend taking it off. In general, if you have any kind of jewelry, I recommend taking it off when you're working out or in the gym. If you ever want to be traumatized, look up Evulsion Fractures. And if you're wondering what I put my feet on, it was actually the rice bucket that I used for the rice bucket training video. Multiple uses. And the next one you can try is this leg assisted hang. So if you're not quite strong enough to hang without any support, you can use simply your feet and your legs to support. Now you might think, well, this is too easy, don't worry, it will get a little bit more difficult, but something you may want to consider, even if you feel like this is too easy for you, is to try to hang for at least 60 seconds per hold. Try to hold this for 60 seconds. Have a phone or a stopwatch or something so you can keep yourself honest. And you may realize that something that you think feels easy for the first 5, 10, 15 seconds might get a little bit more difficult as you go on. And that's very important for a reason that I'm going to explain, but first I want to show you that if you have a taller bar, not a shorter bar, you can just use something like this. See, this is such a useful bucket. I turned this away. Not sponsored. Any bucket will work. There's free fitness routine on our website if you want to get started working out from home, building up with push-ups, pull-ups, squats and beyond. We have a support board with trainers answering your fitness questions if you need help, and a mobile fitness app that can walk you through these exercises if you just want to get started. And the next one, which is probably the last standard one in the series, is just a regular bar hang. Now you can hang from something a little bit wider like this or like this with a neutral grip. I would just do whatever is easy for you at first because you can always try to make it harder. Now you can do a false grip like this. Sorry, not a false grip, but just not using your thumb. You can do that, but I do recommend having your thumbs under that way you really get used to this because that is important for a lot of grip exercises that you will see. And from here, you also want to build up to at least one minute, 60 seconds. I would say maybe a little bit longer and you might think, well, Hampton, that's endurance. I'm trying to build grip strength. Why would I need that? If you train this for a bit, you'll kind of immediately see why. This is just a hand towel hang and we can start with one arm only, but you'll see that with grip strength. It doesn't matter as much what you can grip for barely one second peak force, but for most exercises that require your grip, usually require you to grip for multiple seconds. So you want some endurance into your strength here. Same thing with these towel hang. I've built up about 60 seconds each side. Now this variation is where a lot of people tend to drop out and they don't do the more difficult ones. If you're wondering why it's important, it's because this engages your palm muscles a bit more in a way that horizontal grip doesn't quite do the same. The reason why it's important to train the thumbs, so boom. For that reason, moving on to a towel grip with both hands will obviously be a little bit more difficult, but there's also a couple of different paths you can take because instead of exploring more towel grip, you could just build up to a 60 second one arm hang, which is fairly difficult and will also work your elbow and a lot of other things are important for your grip. And the reason I say that is because you could have a very strong grip, which is kind of the opposite problem that I mentioned in the beginning. But if you don't have the elbow and the shoulder capacity to make that grip more functional and really express that strength where you can grip something and you aren't like, ah, my shoulder. And that's why training with a one arm hang can be pretty useful for that. And if you're feeling like, ah, if you rotate and fall, then you may want to consider putting an arm or something here to stop yourself from rotating to keep it more of a focus on your grip. And while a minute for that is a good standard, I would say around this point, whichever path you take, it can be around the time that you start lowering the standard to where it's not 60 seconds before you move on, maybe like 30 seconds and you just like make it a little bit more difficult. That might seem a little bit more reachable for some people. And the other path that you can take is to use a towel or a rope if you want to be more professional to explore that kind of vertical grip, which can challenge your palms in a different way. As mentioned in doing it on one side like this is usually a little bit easier, not just because these are easier to grip, but because I've noticed putting your hands together can kind of help them support each other, which is a useful progression. And it's for those reasons that using a double over towel on two separate bar things like this will make it a little bit more difficult. And if you've seen these exercises before, then yeah, I didn't make them up. I first read about these like a decade ago. They've probably been around for maybe hundreds of years if you consider rope climbing. I've made videos about these before, but I want to go more in depth in a longer video like this. And you can, for all of these other progressions, you can assist a little bit with your legs if you want something in between. If you're like, yeah, I can do this one, but I can't quite do this for very long. I would just hang on and be like, oh, starting to slip. Maybe a little bit before you start to slip and then use a little bit of assistance so you can hang a little bit longer. For all these progressions, you might feel effort, but you shouldn't feel any finger pain in my opinion. And that happens especially for these vertical ones because it's easier for us to slip and be like, ah, man, it shouldn't hurt. If it hurts, I recommend backing off and using an easy progression. You can still build solid strength and important grip strength endurance without hurting your fingers. They're very nice, so we got to try to take care of them. And before we get to the final progression in this grip series, I want to talk about a question some people would have because I was reviewing the footage and I think some people might wonder this. And that is, Hampton, you've talked about grip strength, but we've so far only talked about isometric holding static strength. We're holding on to the bar, the towel, or the rope. What about movement? Right? So we talked about push-up strength. We are moving with the push-up. Setups are moving. Squats are moving. Why are we not training grip by moving? And I would say that's an excellent question, but there's two sides I would answer to that. One is we get better at what we specifically train. So if we want to train to use our grip to hold on to a heavy bar, hold on to a pull-up bar as we're doing weighted pull-ups or pull-ups, then we will tend to get better at that. If we train for that, we train by holding, we'll get better at holding. And second, I have noticed that while you can use crush grippers, and I like these and other equipment to build good crushing strength, as the numbers go up, our fingers tend to hurt a little bit as to do that. And it's not necessarily a good kind of pain that makes us stronger. This kind of pain might make us weaker. Now, that said, can you build up? Quite possibly. Quite possibly. You might be able to build up without pain. There might be someone, there probably is someone out there that can do hundreds of pounds of incredible, mind-blowing amount. But even with that, my hesitation and why I haven't personally gone after the big numbers on crush grip, even though I really like grip, is because you will always be able to hold more than you can lift. Right? So I've made a video about this. In this case, you should be able to hold more than you can crush, because once you can go beyond just holding something, you will be able to move. So that number should always be higher. So if you want to build good grip strength and you usually use your grip by holding onto things, then holding onto things might be the primary way that you want to train. That said, by all means, you can supplement with some crush grippers or some kind of moving grip exercise. That might be good for your forearms. There's like the open ones you can do. I've used them too. They can be nice. Okay, I'm going to use a rope for this last one because I got the rope. So I'm going to use it. I'm going to use it in the video. And the thing that I haven't seen anyone do in real life for 60 seconds is just a one-arm towel or rope hang. Unassisted, because I am assisting here. In fact, I haven't seen anyone do it for like 30 seconds. And usually I don't really train this. On a good day, I might be able to get a few solid seconds. If I weren't taken more seriously, I'd bring in Mr. Buckhead. Oh, and watch out for rope burn if you try these. So if you're not sure if you can do some of these progressions, start gentle, then slowly work your way up. But hey, are any of those later progressions really needed? Not really, I would say. It's usually a little bit more than you need. And especially if you just want to do pull-ups and lift weights, you can start adding weight to a two-arm hang like this or even a one-arm hang with a dumbbell. And that will be the majority of what many of you will need as far as grip strength goes. And hey, if you want the grip strength to do heavy weighted pull-ups or to lift heavy weight on a deadlift or something, then yes, you'll probably get better at what you specifically train. So you might want to spend some time specifically training that or even use some straps for grip assistance. Many of you already know, but I'm not against weights at all. I just think it's cool that we have the tools often embedded within ourselves to get fit and strong from home with minimal equipment sometimes, which is our body weight and gravity. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.