 Hey friends, so I saw a comment a while ago, and it went something like, this is so stupid, why would anyone do calisthenics since the invention of the dumbbell? And I thought, darn, that's a good question. So I wanted to give my answer to that in this relatively casual video. Calisthenics is special to our physical fitness and health, but not in a way that many people might think. And before I go further, I want to mention that I like doing calisthenics, but I also like talking about calisthenics and showing people the fundamental progressions, like wall push-ups, incline push-ups, knee push-ups, and so on, almost just as much. And I think it's important for people to know and understand progressive calisthenics, perhaps a little bit more than they currently do. Because the people who really like doing calisthenics tend to go in a few different ways. So one side is really the pure body weight progression type, so gymnasts and hand balancers, and maybe some people who go into the circus, and maybe some stage performers who can do some really impressive, strong things, but basically think of their body as like how a skateboarder might think of their skateboard. They can do tricks and really cool holds that are really super impressive. And then there are people who basically do weightlifting, but with movements that are generally associated with calisthenics. So this would be weighted calisthenics, which again is super impressive, but I always think the term is funny because someone pointed this out a while ago, and I couldn't stop seeing it. But technically anything involving weights is weighted calisthenics. Right, so if you're strapping 300 pounds to yourself to do a pull-up, which is awesome, that's about as much weighted calisthenics as a barbell squat is. Because you're just doing a squat, but weighted, right? So there are people who push the ideas of what we consider calisthenics and push the boundaries of what we know is possible, and that's awesome. But I want you to think about a spectrum represented by a line that starts right here and ends right here perhaps, where this is very, very physically fit, and this would be about as unfit as you can be. Which part of this spectrum would you say is most important? Because pushing the bounds of what we know is possible is probably cooler, right? This is more impressive here. But I would say it's more important to have this area covered near the beginning, because someone who can do something impressive, doing something more impressive, say going from a 300-pound bench press to a 400-pound bench press, or if that's not impressive enough, going from a 500-pound bench press to a 700-pound bench press is really cool. But it's probably more important and impactful for someone who couldn't squat onto the ground and get back up without help to be able to do that. That can be potentially life-changing or even life-saving. One comparison I sometimes use is money. Not everyone likes discussing it, but a lot of people seem to relate to this example. We intuitively know that it's important to our life to be able to go from having literally nothing to, say, having food. Food, water, and shelter. And that's usually more important than, say, going from 100k to 200k in annual income by getting a new job, which can still be cool. Congratulations. You can buy a lot of cool stuff with money. I get it. But you probably can't buy any of that if you don't have food and you die. So the first part is more important. So there's a fun threshold, you see, where it's like, ooh, that's cool, I'm hitting new records. But then there's a threshold before that that you have to meet to survive, pretty much. And that seems to be in both personal finance and personal fitness. And calisthenics is really good at covering this part of the spectrum if we understand it. So calisthenics is one of the safest, most accessible ways to get healthy, fit, and strong with things that are attached to us. And that would be our body. So our arms, legs, things that are a part of us. Gravity and the laws of physics. And the last one is really important because if we understand how we can modify these exercises, then we understand that we can find a progression that's perfect for you and meet you at your current fitness level for you to practice until you're ready to move on to something harder. And that part is important to understand because if you think that calisthenics is too difficult for you, if you think the things like push-ups, squats, and pull-ups you haven't been able to do, you haven't really ever been able to do, you can start with the progression. You can know about incline push-ups. You can know about horizontal pull-ups. You can know about assisted squats to help you build up to that level. And if you think calisthenics is too easy for you, if you have all that covered, then I'll mention first that once again, there are people that are actively trying to push the boundaries of what we think is possible. So there is a progression or even simpler, a weight, if you want to do weighted calisthenics, that will probably still be able to challenge you. But also, again, this part of the spectrum, building up to be healthy, able, and fit, calisthenics is well able to cover. If you spend the time, the vast majority of people will be able to build up to things like push-ups, pull-ups, and squats. And if you want to go a little bit further, you can do one-arm push-ups, one-arm pull-ups, one-leg squats. And depending on where you started, that has the potential of vastly improving your quality of life. And then you can go on to do whatever you like. You can pursue more advanced calisthenics, or you can do weights. You can explore endurance exercises, or really any number of things. And if you don't think that applies to you, if you're watching this, you're like, well, that's cool, Hampton. But I'm already pretty physically fit, maybe partially because I'm young right now. But I'm already pretty physically fit. I don't really need that. I'm already at that point where I can go find other things. The part that's really cool, and the part why I might like talking about it just as much as I like doing it, is that you might know a relative or a friend, maybe older, not necessarily. Some of them are younger. But someone who could stand to be more physically fit, and probably wants to. But they're just not going to the gym. Some people are like that. They don't want to go to the gym, maybe they can't afford it, maybe they feel intimidated there, but they're just not going to the gym. If we, as people who watch this channel and other channels, or at least know about these exercises, can introduce them the idea of progressive calisthenics, where they can start with a wall push-up and do a few sets of that, or any kind of variation, any kind of exercise that they can do competently and safely, and maybe still challenges them. And then when they're ready, they can move on to harder exercises. If a lot of us do that, then that has the potential of making large-scale change. And again, those people, after they're going through calisthenics, they can go explore other things if they want. And it's not just about quality of life and things they can do, but also lifespan. So I believe as people get older, it's important for them to maintain lower body mobility and strength, because some people unfortunately fall, and then they're immobile for a while, and that kind of down-spirals their health. It's very sad. And I'm not saying assisted squats can always fix that, but I think it's important for people to know about these progressions so they have the option of using them if they want. And this does bring up some important topics, because while physical fitness might be correlated with happiness and things like that, some people feel pushed by this. They feel, well, their physical fitness shouldn't be tied to their self-worth, which I agree. I agree with. There's a lot more to you than just your physical fitness. And hey, I love you all, regardless of how many push-ups you can do. This is more about having the knowledge and the options to explore these if and when you want. Because while school fitness programs and other places that teach physical fitness know about push-ups, pull-ups, and squats, and they use calisthenics, it might be cool if they taught people how to modify these exercises to be easier so everyone can find a place to get started, or harder if they need something more advanced. While there are many people who already know about these, I feel like if there were more people in the world who knew about these progressions and practiced these, then we could have a world that's slightly healthier, slightly fitter, and perhaps even slightly happier. I know physical fitness is only one part of the equation. It's not enough just to exercise well. We also have to eat well, sleep well, live well. Then there's things like our mental health, which is very important. But I think it's pretty cool that one key to our freedom, which would be our physical freedom, is literally attached to us. And we can build this freedom through learning about calisthenics and practicing it. That's why calisthenics might still be important even after the invention of the dumbbell. Thank you so much for watching. I hope this video can help you or someone else you know. Have a beautiful day, my friend. If you want a free fitness routine based on these principles, we have one on our website. If you want a book or e-book version of it, we have those as well. We have a fitness app in beta we're about to launch a massive improvement on. Super excited about that. And support from certified personal trainers if you want that. Oh, and a card version of the routine if you'd like the drawings. Looking forward to being warmer. I think it's 32 degrees right now.