- Hey, were you supposed to exercise today, but you didn't? (laughs) That's okay. I tell a lot of my Christian friends it's okay if you don't go jogging because the Bible says, "Only the wicked run "when no one is chasing them." (laughs) But this brings up the question, how do Christians who are trying to live their life like Christ approach something like fitness. Did Jesus go to the gym? And I feel like a lot of people are even subconsciously adverse to the idea of fitness because how it's become in popular media is kind of Hollywood-ized, you know. You see these people going extreme binges or diets or workout programs and just kind of hurting and killing themselves trying to look like their favorite movie star. And that is not fitness. That is vanity and some would call that idol worship. However, I don't think fitness is that. Fitness itself is restoring your body to the way it's supposed to be. Because a lot of us, unfortunately so, were healthier when we were born and then it's been a downward slope ever since. And I want to start with the idea of what does it mean to be Christian? And I have like a whole reasoning behind this and we can go into that in another video. But I think being Christian, at the crux of it, is to serve and help our fellow brother and sister. So would it not be noble to raise other people up? Would it not be Christian to help the elderly and help ease pain and improve quality of life? But does this mean you have to be a fitness coach? No, I mean, a lot of people don't even like fitness infomercials. I'm sorry if you're watching this and you're someone who produces fitness infomercials, but a lot of people don't like (laughs) feeling like they're fat or not fit. And when they're watching a video on YouTube or Facebook and you burst in and you advertise your program, a lot of people don't appreciate that. Well my view on it is Jesus taught and he inspired and he helped by example. He led by example. He didn't knock on anyone's door and say, "Hey you need to follow me and this is why "and if you don't, you're going to Hell." I think a lot of people approached him and why his method was so effective was they approached him and they said, "Well we really like what you're doing. "We really like you. "Can you please show me how to be like you?" And he said, "Yes." And I think if you are healthy, and especially as you get older and you're healthy and fit while your friends are getting frailer and their bodies are breaking down from the partying and drinking and the abuse they give them, you're gonna get some questions like, "Hey, you're really quite healthy. "You're not sick nearly as much as I am. "you're much healthier than I am. "You don't have back pain like I do. "Can you help me be like you?" And then you say, "Yes." And it's not gonna be one person. It's gonna be multiple people and the healthier you are and the longer you go, the more and more you'll get this question and the more and more followers you'll accrue. But that's not it. These people that you help successfully, they'll also get questions. When they're healthier, their friends and family will say, "Hey, you're pretty healthy. "I want to be able to do what you do "with the ease that you do. "Can you please help me?" And they say, "Yes." And you create this ripple effect. And by the time you die and you pass away, you will have helped so many people, more than you can count. And I think this, I think Jesus puts a little part of him in all of us and if we allow it in this way, we can let him work his miracles through us. If we're healthy and we're raising up our fellow man and we're helping the elderly and we're healing the infirmed and we're preventing further illness and injury, well I think that's extraordinarily Christian. And how do we start? Well we can start by taking a walk. (laughing) And drinking a glass of water. My name is Hampton. This is Hybrid Calisthenics. If you liked this video, please like and share it so others can benefit. If you agree or disagree, please comment and let me know. And if you'd like what I'm about, please follow the page and join me on my journey. I'm gonna go for a walk, see you guys soon.