! Hey friends, it's your brother Hampton! In this video, I want to analyze 10 pieces of supposedly bad fitness advice, and I want to give context that might help us interpret them in a way that can benefit us and maybe analyze the original meaning a bit. Because not everyone, as you'll realize, will think these pieces of advice are bad. Some people have taken them and benefited from them, but others have taken them and perhaps injured themselves or stagnated or been misled. And this is because we interpret words in different ways, and if we understand them through proper context, then we can follow the pieces of advice that actually help us and not the ones that hurt us. Or I guess you could follow the ones that hurt us. Or I guess you could follow the ones that hurt us. Or I guess you could follow the ones that hurt you too. I won't tell you what to do. The first one is no pain, no gain. You probably have heard this one before. It's pretty common across many different fields, but in fitness there is a good interpretation and what I would consider a bad interpretation. So it's a good example for us to start with. The good one shows us that the exertion of exercise can help us grow. So training and pushing and doing more reps over time, that can be good. Additionally, having the discipline, which I'll talk about later, there's some context around that, having the discipline to push through things that we don't want to do. Because even when we're not actively being hurt, when we are going through a workout like a wall sit or a plank, man, our body will tell us to stop. Because we have an instinct to not push past those limits or really come close. I've heard a theory that our body doesn't naturally want to train to failure because doing so burns our inner resources and our body's still not used to food being plentiful, but it is plentiful nowadays. I'm not sure how verified that is, but definitely learning to push yourself in appropriate context and sometimes learning to do what you don't want to do. If you don't feel like doing, doing it anyway, in a healthy and sustainable way, that can be good for us. And a bad interpretation is suffering the pain of injury. Pain apparently has different definitions depending on who you ask, which is why I hesitate before saying things like no pain, no gain. Because yes, you have to work hard sometimes to get what you need and what you want. But in fitness and health, if you injure yourself, that is almost always a setback. Yes, there is small micro trauma being done on your muscles during exercise, but that is different than big injuries that set us back and sometimes causes not to be able to train for weeks, even months sometimes. Let's say you can squat like 225 pounds and you can do that for reps, but you can only go up to 175 without knee pain. You may want to consider lowering the weight to something around there so you can feel the exertion of exercise, but not the pain that will injure you and make you less able over time, especially if the pain gets worse over time. You want to be careful of that. The second one is always stretch before a workout. Unlike the no pain, no gain one, this one doesn't have a direct quote, but I feel like many of us have heard this in gym class or understand it in some way where we're supposed to stretch before a workout. The current research and status quo in this is we do dynamic stretches before a workout. And if we want to do static stretches, we do that after. So think of trying to touch your toes, anything where you're still, that is a static stretch. Dynamic means moving. So if you think about doing these jumping jacks or even doing an easier version of the exercise you're about to do, that can count as dynamic stretching. So if you're about to do full pushups, you can warm up with wall pushups. If you're going to bench press 225, you can warm up with the bar, for example. The idea is that dynamic stretching done properly can warm us up, prepare us for the workout and improve performance. And static stretching can sometimes relax us too much and perhaps cause injury or decrease performance. Now this context has been gaining popularity for the past few years now, and I do agree with it, but there is some nuance there, right? So if you just bend down and touch your toes right before a workout, that probably won't affect your workout that much, especially if you reach down and grab your keys if you drop them. Something like that. So there is nuance in how much stretching we're doing. And of course, it also depends on the type of workout you're doing. So this is usually aimed towards strength and heavy workouts or resistance training. For some people, their workout is yoga. So if you're stretching before that, it probably won't affect it quite as much. And I don't know that much about the deep practice of yoga, but in the West, yoga is often just seen as stretching. So if your workout is stretching, you can usually stretch beforehand. And the next one is you can't out-train a bad diet. Now that's the most common quote, but that's usually not considered a bad piece of advice. So reframed, I guess it could be, you can out-train a bad diet. And we can kind of analyze this. And this actually made it into the list because the other day I saw a discussion between a friend where someone said, you can't out-train a bad diet. And someone said, well, you literally can't. You just have to run a lot. And that did make me think that there are different ways of how we view training. So you can't out-train a bad diet or you can't out-run a bad diet is often used, from what I've seen, towards a weight loss goal during your training. And if you're trying to lose weight, you broadly have exercise, your sleep, and what you're eating and taking into your body. The idea and good interpretation behind this piece of advice is that it's usually easier to eat a more satiating, nutritious meal and maybe avoid some pieces of junk food than to burn off those extra calories. So an example that's commonly given is a slice of pizza has something like 285 calories, depending on the pizza, of course. And you have to run like 30 minutes to burn that off. So if you have two slices of pizza, you have to run for an hour to burn that off. Now, I don't know if you've ever ran an hour, but doing that every day can be pretty exhausting. So the idea behind it is that we can monitor what we eat, perhaps choose some foods that are still nutritious. So we're not starving ourselves and we're feeding ourselves and nourishing our body, but making food choices that better suit our goals rather than trying to make up for it with exercise. Now, there's other considerations there, like your relationship with food. So feel free to pick and choose these as would suit you. But on the other hand, if your goal is strength and muscle, yes, what you eat still matters. But how you train might matter a little bit more than if your goal was purely just weight loss. You can get stronger just keeping your diet the same. You could usually put on some muscle just keeping your diet the same. Now, as you get more advanced and you're trying to put on more muscle, what you eat will matter. You might need higher protein, a more balanced diet. You might need to monitor your sleep a little bit better. But what I feel about this is I don't really like putting diet and training as in like almost opposing categories. Like, well, I exercised a lot. Therefore, I earned this piece of pie or this pizza. Now I can eat that. Our eating, sleeping and training are really just different parts of our lives and we have the same life. So if we align them when we can, then we can better thrive. Like we eat well, we sleep well and we train well. And if we sometimes slip up, which everyone does, we don't want to spend too much time beating up ourselves. Get back on the wagon and continue trying to grow and thrive. That's how I see it. Next piece of advice that is related to that is abs remain in the kitchen, not in the gym. And the idea behind this, once again, is similar to if you are trying to have visible abs or more defined abs, your body fat percentage will play a large role in that. So you can see from strong men, and this is very commonly noted, so I'm not trying to disparage them in any way. But strong men, due to the nature of their sport, usually don't have the most chiseled physiques, despite being very, very ferociously strong. And I think they might be a good example of how you can get very strong and spend a lot of time in the gym and still not have visible abs. So that part is true, kind of riding on our previous section, where what you eat will matter a lot in that goal. However, ab training, or as I would think of it, core training, is still very important for other parts of our fitness and health. That's very important for our function. Almost everything we do, when we reach over, grab things, when we pull, we'll use our core. And if we ever unfortunately injure ourselves, then you'll notice that almost every movement you do involves your core. So everything hurts. So lesson one, protect yourself. Don't injure yourself there. And lesson two, you still want to train your midsection, train your core. I use hanging leg raises a lot. A lot of people can do them on the ground if you want. That sometimes aggravates someone's lower back. So if it's an exercise that hurts you, consider an isometric version. So instead of going up and down during your leg raises, you can find a position you can hold for 30 seconds to a minute and just hold that for time. And then find harder positions as you get stronger. Now, while you have pain during the exercise, there might be some underlying issues that you want to eventually resolve. Feel free to see a physical therapist if you're able. But until it's resolved, using an isometric static non-moving variant can sometimes help you get the benefit of the exercise without pain. And this next one is lift heavy to get big. Okay, so I wrote these down and I like these. Some of these things I haven't heard in quite some time because I spend time around different people. But I know they're still quite common because I hear people mention them. So when I was growing up, how I understood fitness was if you wanted to get big muscles, you would lift increasingly heavier weight with lower reps, like three to five. And that's how you built muscle. That's how you got stronger. And if you want to tone your muscle, which I'll talk about in the next point, then you would use lower weight for high reps. Turns out, like many things, there is some truth to that, but we can add some context. And a good interpretation of this is that, yes, heavier, heavy-ish weights, medium-heavy weights, lifted progressively over time in a good training program paired with good sleep and a good nutrition plan can help you grow muscle. But the context around that is that you can also do that with medium weight or even on the lower end of weight. The common thing we hear nowadays is you can grow muscle at any rep range. The idea is that you can push yourself enough to be where it's near failure, and then you can exhaust your muscle fibers and stimulate growth that way. So we can either recruit a lot of muscle fibers at once with heavier weight, or we can use medium-ish weight and recruit more muscle fibers over time throughout the working set. This is explained very well in something called Henneman's Size Principle, if anyone wants to look it up. So if you want to use heavy weight to get bigger muscles and get stronger, it's perfectly fine to do so, especially if it's well within your ability and you can handle those lifts, you can handle that weight safely and competently. However, if you ever want to explore slightly higher rep ranges with slightly lower weight, which has benefited because those higher rep ranges are usually more representative, in my opinion, of the forces we feel in day-to-day life. If I can barely lift something, I probably won't lift it myself in day-to-day life. I'll just ask someone to help me. However, if I can lift it and carry it for about 20 seconds, I'm more likely to do that. That's more representative of medium rep range. So you don't have to spend all your time in 3 to 5. You could do 5 to 10. You could do 9 to 12. You can even do 15 to 20. And like 20 to 30, that's usually near the upper end of where people train if their goal is to build muscle. Not necessarily because it's bad, but people usually prefer medium reps without going too high. Higher reps may also feel harder for some people. And on a related one is higher reps to get toned. Or you may hear low weight, high reps to get toned, or medium weight, high reps to get toned. Something like that. And by tone, they usually mean more definition. So you see someone's arm. It could be very large and very muscular, but there could be still some fat around it and it just looks round. Versus if someone's very defined, then you can see all the veins. You can see the muscle fibers sometimes. So that is how I interpret the meaning of toned in this context. And there is some truth to that. But as we know from some of the things we've analyzed beforehand, that our body fat percentage really matters here. So just training alone can add some definition, but there usually has to be some discussion on how lean we're getting when the goal is muscle definition or leanness or weight loss. To use a very simple example that many people have visited, doing hundreds of sit-ups won't usually by itself help you lose belly fat. You can't spot reduce. That's a topic for another day perhaps. But you can do hundreds, you can do thousands of sit-ups. And as long as you maintain a similar body fat percentage, your abs may not get that much more defined. Now, exercise in general can help you adjust your body fat percentage. But if you have an appearance-based goal, which a lot of people do, then generally you want to build a muscle and then have some type of eating and training plan to where you reduce fat to show the definition. So training can help you get more defined, but it's just part of the equation. Now, some people might say that they've done sit-ups, they've done leg raises, and wow, they suddenly see more definition in their abs. That's true because you're growing the muscle that's underneath the fat. So it will help you get more defined. And like I mentioned, that's also a very useful thing to train. So by all means, please do that. But you may also notice that while it may seem more defined while you're doing it, it may get less defined later on throughout the day. And this is partially because blood will flow through the areas that we're training and the muscles will usually get bigger during that time. So you hear people talking about the pump, that's part of what they mean. So you may get more defined immediately after your exercise, but if you want lasting long-term definition, changes, still a combination of food, training, and sleep. I want to add real quick, I know sleep is mentioned last in a lot of these lists, but sleep really helps. You can lose weight while you're sleeping. Sleeping and resting is when we get stronger, lose weight, and a lot of our actual growth and benefit happens. So if you think of working out and doing what you do during the day, your training, that's like working. And then when you sleep is when you're collecting your paycheck. And if you never collect your paycheck, then you might be working hard, but your bank account will be growing. I don't know if that's the best metaphor, but sometimes how I think of it. Okay, I think I'm going to move here for the rest of the video. My wife installed some nice deck lights and I enjoyed them. So I might film here when it gets a little bit closer to dark, but I have a few more pieces that I'll go through. Some of them won't take that long. Some of them don't need quite as much context as others. Others go a little more nuanced. And this next one is calisthenics can't build muscle. So we probably have heard this at some point before. And this is an interesting one because we tend to see what we want to see. I'm probably contributing to the idea as someone whose channel's name is hybrid calisthenics and someone who probably isn't as muscular as some people out there. Definitely not as muscular as some people out there. I may contribute to the idea that doing bodyweight exercise means you're going to be smaller. And if I had to guess, people who do exclusively bodyweight probably overall will be smaller, less muscle mass than people who power lift or use other form of weightlifting, for example. However, it doesn't mean that calisthenics can't grow muscle. In fact, you can probably search muscular calisthenics athlete and you can find a lot of them. And there's a common pushback to that where, well, they're on steroids. Well, weightlifters are also on steroids. A lot of people are on steroids. I'm not on steroids. So regardless of your training modality, you can choose steroids. And you usually will have an edge over your competition in the sense that you can gain more absolute muscle. But like we talked about before, we can use bodyweight to get more muscular. We can use bodyweight to get stronger. And while, yes, as mentioned before, it's still thought that we can gain muscle in any rep range and you could just increase your rep ranges, you probably will have better results overall doing calisthenics if you make your variations harder. So you don't only do pushups and do more and more and more pushups, but you can change to diamond pushups. You can change to one-arm pushups. And if you just want to stick to calisthenics and build weight in a more straightforward way, then you can start to go into weighted calisthenics. After you can do 10, 15 reps of a regular exercise, you can start adding weight. Weighted dips, weighted pullups, and weighted squats, I guess, would be a nice degree to start with. So with calisthenics, if you want to get stronger and more muscular, it probably would be better if you use harder variations over time or learn to weight some exercises. Not to mention that calisthenics athletes and gymnasts are usually more skill-focused. So their main goal usually isn't building muscle, isn't building maximum amounts of muscle. Some of them may want to do certain skills that would require a certain amount of leanness, but not necessarily muscle mass. However, a benefit of weightlifting, if you want to bodybuild and train your muscles and you're going to more of a traditional bodybuilding competition, then it's a lot simpler to overload a pattern. So let's say you want to do the bench press one. You can have this same movement, but just different weight. With calisthenics, using harder variations you can change the grip with. You're still making it harder, but it's a different pattern, and there's different muscles being targeted. So just something to consider. Okay, and the next one is something like workout in the day or workout in the morning. And there's usually different reasonings about this. I hear different ones. The most recent one I heard is you have more testosterone in the morning or something. And you may also hear workout in the evening. So this one will apply to any particular time of day where you should work out and whatever reasoning people will use for that. And I know there's different studies analyzing the best time to work out, but I think it's going to be situational to the person listening. That would be you. Because the best time to work out probably is going to be the time of day when you are most energized. And if that is in the morning, then ideally that would be the time you would work out, granted that you have time. And we probably will have more energy around the time after a good night's rest early in the day relative to when we start our day. So some people don't even wake up in the morning. So it's not that. Some people sleep until 2 and they work out at 3. And that's early in the day for them, but it is afternoon. And I feel like there's different variables that can affect that, like our work, our lifestyle, and when we're used to working out. But overall, I would say the best time to work out is probably the time of day when you feel the most energized. And that could be in the morning. I have nothing against morning workouts. But my qualm with this one, because I was misled by this earlier on, is I would have to wake up early if I wanted to make positive changes in my life. And there's like different reasonings, like get up early while everyone else is still sleeping so you can progress and make progress while they're still sleeping. Guys, we don't want to vilify sleep. We don't want to vilify rest. We don't want to vilify food or exercise. Anything like that. All of it has context. And sleep is pretty straightforward in the sense that you will need enough sleep to operate at your best. Let's say that you do find that you have, that you want to exercise at 7 a.m., 8 a.m., or even earlier, like 5 or 6. I'm able to get up at 3. That might be fine, granted that you've got enough rest. I almost never recommend cutting short your rest in order to get up and work out long term. You might do that one time because you might think, well, I'll get 5 hours of sleep, but I'll hit the gym and this will reset me. And then if that's something that works for you, it doesn't work for everyone. If that works for you and you can commit to that, sure, every once in a while is fine. Every once in a while we have to cut into our sleep. Almost all of us have to do that at some point. But you usually don't want to do a trade-off like that if you can avoid it. If you can sleep your full 8, 9 hours, however much you need, and still exercise later in the day, I recommend doing that. Don't necessarily sacrifice sleep just to get up early long term. And the next one is something like exercise every day or push yourself every day, which I think is different. Exercising every day, just to be clear, you don't have to exercise every day to make progress. It's not even necessarily the most optimal way to make progress. I would argue, depending on the type of exercise you're doing, you could exercise every day if you wanted. You could. But you could also probably get comparable results doing 3 days a week, 5 days a week, depending on how you're structuring your workouts. But more isn't always better in this case. Once again, we gain a lot of benefit when we're resting, including sleep. So if you want to take weekends off, if you want to take every other day off, you can still make a tremendous amount of progress. And depending on your workout split, as like if you're doing full body, if you're doing upper lower, if you're doing push-pull legs, it's not even necessarily optimal to exercise every day. So try not to worry too much about that. If you want to exercise every day, then having some kind of workout split, whether it's upper lower or push-pull legs, where you're not working on the same muscles every day, then you could probably better do that and still operate closer to your maximum. Especially if you do isometric exercise, which I know not a lot of people do, but something that I include. And you can recover very quickly from isometric exercise. There's less muscle damage. These are different ways you can work out more often or work out every day if you choose. It is still a little bit dependent on your goals. Some people have found, contrary to popular belief, that having full body workouts, I think something like five days a week, yielded surprising bodybuilding benefits. And that's really interesting and some people may prefer that. But if your goal is to get stronger, which building muscle will help, but if your goal is to get stronger, you usually want to be fresh when you go for your sets, when you test yourself. And having an adequate window of time to fully recover and give your next set your all, your next workout time your all for that particular movement will usually help it get stronger over time. There may be some exceptions. I don't want to speak too broadly on that. But usually if you want to get stronger, leaving enough time between training that movement again, usually like a day or so, can help you recover more and perform better. But then again, you get better at what you train in. If your goal is endurance-based and if you want something that you're doing very often, like jogging, then it is something where you can train more often and your body will adapt to that. So we get better at what we train. And the last one I'll talk about here is motivation doesn't matter. Motivation fades. Discipline is required to attain your goals. And I agree with this. However, I believe it could use some extra context because discipline is required to reach many of the things that we want. Or you could argue any of the things we want. Discipline in different amounts. You could say it's not required. Or I don't know. The example I usually use is brushing your teeth. You don't necessarily feel motivated to brush your teeth. But you know you have to. I know there's different mental disorders that may affect that. But most of us know we have to brush our teeth in order for the healthiness of our teeth. So we really should need some level of ability to do things even when we don't feel like doing them. Even when we actively, perhaps strongly, don't feel like doing them. But we power through and we know, no, this is required. This is good for us. Or I don't like it now. But I will appreciate this later on. However, the way I think of it is like this. Discipline can help you finish the race when you don't want to finish the race. But motivation can really help you win the race. So you think about two people that are approximately the same. One's very disciplined. And one's motivated and disciplined. Right? So like in anything, you can push through and not feel like doing it. But if you actually do enjoy doing what you're doing, you usually will have that extra edge. Right? And that can come, this is speaking very broadly, but if we go into the details, you're thinking about it more often. You're talking about it more often. You're seeking out information and being excited to learn about it. Whereas the other one, if you're just dragging your feet, you usually won't be as motivated to do that. And you might miss out on a few things that will give you that extra edge. We don't have to choose either motivation or discipline. We can have motivation and discipline. Discipline is good to have as a foundation. I think most people that have worked out for a long period of time have done workouts when they don't feel like doing them. But motivation is also a sign, right? If we regularly don't feel like working out, we have to ask ourselves, why is this? And some of it is up to preference, but not always entirely. If we don't feel like working out, maybe we're not getting enough rest. Maybe we're not getting enough nutrition. Maybe our hormones are out of whack. It's usually a sign that we can change something. Maybe we've discovered that even if we're making progress, this isn't what we want to do. And we really do have a slightly different goal. We don't just want to bodybuild. We actually like seeing higher numbers. So we want to power lift, which is a related goal, but separate and distinct. So yes, have discipline and learn to be able to do things even when you don't feel like doing them. It can really help. But when you're regularly not motivated to do something, consider whether it's something you actually want to keep doing or there's a change that you can make to be disciplined and motivated. I really do enjoy adding context to these. So let me know if you see any other quotes, any other mantras that you would like for me to dive into. You may have noticed during this video, I do interpret things a little bit more charitably. So I mentioned finding interpretations that can help us. And I also mentioned finding their original intent. Some people may not have had the best original intent. Some people may have been misled when they started popularizing these famous mantras. But I interpret these charitably, trying to find the best of them, not because I am delusional. It's not because I'm delulu, but because the goal is to benefit, right? So when I hear a piece of advice, this is a regular thing across not just fitness, but everything else I hear. When I hear someone say something, I really do try to connect to a good meaning to where I'm like, I can see that. Even if it's not necessarily what they mean, I'll repeat it back to them. I'll say, hey, do you mean this? Because it could help us this way. And sometimes it's not what they meant, but they'll agree with that. And I find that to be a very wonderful connection when I interpret someone's speech, when I interpret someone's communication charitably to find their real meaning, but even go a little bit deeper and maybe find a meaning that they haven't necessarily thought of, an angle they haven't thought of, so we can better connect. This helps me improve and learn. It helps them feel heard. So I love doing it. And I encourage people to try doing this. Thank you so much for watching. We have a fitness routine on our website if you want a free fitness routine. If you have questions about it, you can ask certified personal trainers. Add this link with a fitness app in beta if you like fitness apps and a book version that we spend a lot of time on and I really enjoy and a lot of people have gotten. And I am very honored if you like books or eBooks. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day.