Hey friends, I just want to make this quick video talking about what I eat. This has been requested a lot over the years. And what we eat plays a huge role in our health and fitness, especially if we have weight or size related goals. If you just want to do a few more push-ups, get a little bit stronger, you might not have to adjust that too much. But if you very specifically want to lose weight or gain weight, then what we eat and how much will probably play a pretty big role. I know some people don't really like talking food, so feel free to skip this one. I just really haven't talked about my diet that much, meaning what I eat and how much just eating patterns because I have found mine to be so profoundly uninteresting compared to the ones out there. It seems like a lot of people have this kind of unique diet. I just try to eat a balanced diet, meaning plenty of proteins, fats, and carbs. I'm not really a bodybuilder, but this stuff seems to help me thrive, so I wanted to share it here. I'll go over the usual stuff I eat, proteins, fats, carbs, some supplements, and drinks, and then I'll talk about how I specifically gain weight and lose weight when I'm trying to do that. Okay, so the proteins I usually eat. So there's beef. Uh I occasionally have some steak, but it's obviously a little bit more expensive. So sometimes I will have some ground beef. I do have chicken, which is helpful for people who are trying to be a little bit more low fat. I have salmon. I don't really eat that much fish. Salmon's one of the few fishes I will eat. Eggs, usually scrambled, though. I've learned to like fried and sausages. I don't really eat pork for whatever reason, but I do like it in sausages. And there was a time period where I ate a little bit more of a vegetarian style, and I would have tofu, lentils, and beans for protein. So, carbs. I like rice, which is more surprising than it might seem to my friends because my family owned a Chinese restaurant growing up. So, I've had plenty of Chinese food, but I actually don't really like Chinese food otherwise. So, it's surprising to some friends when I say I like rice. I do like fried rice, too, as a meal when I'm able to make that. And I like potato, different forms, mashed, baked, etc. I do eat a fair amount of pasta. And yes, while carbs are okay, this kind of reveals how I am not a bodybuilder. I really, this is it's just food I like. I sometimes have it in a cream sauce, aliolio or marinara. I've learned to add parmesan reano to different sauces that I make. I like the flavor it adds and it seems to add some extra protein. I guess fruits and vegetables also count as carbs though in my mind I think of them as just separate from like potatoes and rice and pasta. I eat plenty of berries or raspberries, blackberries, banana I guess, which is a berry and citrus fruits. So really berries and citrus fruits. And vegetables I don't really choose. I eat most vegetables. So I have arugula, spinach, onions, mushrooms, broccoli, daicon. if you haven't had that. I like it. Some people feel like it smells weird, but I like it. This is a completely anecdotal story, but the first time I moved out to go to college, I was driving to San Diego. I drove to San Diego and this was my first time living by myself and I ate really just kind of junk food. I was like, "Oh, cool. I can eat all this stuff." And at the time, I was doing six sets of 82 push-ups a day. So, just shy of 500 push-ups a day. And again, this is personal experience with other stuff that can affect it. But I was doing push-ups and I noticed I couldn't do as many per set. I would have had to take more breaks. And when I introduced more fruits and vegetables into my diet, into my regular eating, I noticed that I had more energy. I had more stamina during exercises. And I just felt better during the day. So that's why I try to keep fruits and vegetables in what I eat. Now for fats, I went over to my kitchen. And this is completely unsponsored. No business affiliation with these companies. But fats I usually feel like oils and butter. And I really personally like Kerry Gold. I know they're a little bit more expensive, but when possible, I like the taste of car gold butter. Again, not really a health thing, just what I prefer. Uh when I cook, I try to use avocado oil. So, I like this oil. I've heard different things, but this seems like a very pure, clear oil with a higher smoke point than olive oil. I used to cook more with olive oil, but it would always smoke. Same with butter. It always smoke and burn. So, when possible, I try to cook with avocado oil, and then I add in different oils later. Other fats might be avocados, which is a source of protein for some people. I like guacamole and I especially like burrito bowls. I've talked about this on the channel before, but I eat burrito bowls and when I do, I try to have some guacamole with that. Same with cheese. It does give me a little bit of congestion. I don't, as you can see, as you will see, I don't really make any effort to avoid dairy, but cheese gives me a little bit of congestion, but I do like eating. Depending on what it's with, I like Parmesano, which is different than just Parmesan, mozzarella, gouda, grier, provolone. Honestly, I just really like most cheeses. Okay, supplements. So, I used to say that I didn't take any, but I've tried a few. Protein powder counts as a supplement in my opinion. So, I've tried a few and I've liked some protein powders, especially when I'm trying to gain weight, but also when I'm trying to lose weight. I'll talk about that in another section. Actually, no, I'll talk about it now. Just one scoop with milk when I'm trying to gain weight and one scoop with water when I'm trying to lose weight. That's more of a personal preference thing. You can have it however you want. And drinks, I have black coffee. Usually, black coffee with some honey. I'm a little bit unusual in that way. and teas. I have green tea, black tea, some peppermint tea, and I have some fruit teas now. I used to find them a little bit underwhelming, but now I like them at night. Okay, quick section on gaining weight. I don't know how many people this will help, but for people who are trying to gain weight, gain muscle, but might struggle to gain weight. That was kind of me. Or rather, more specifically, if I didn't pay attention, I would lose weight rather than gain weight. I know not everyone shares that experience, but it's also a separate struggle that I know other people have. When I started exercising, taking fitness more seriously, I was getting a bit stronger. noticeably, but I wasn't putting on that much size until I consciously decided to eat an extra meal a day. Granted, I naturally wanted to eat one or two meals. The three meal thing works for some people, but as far as I know, it's not set in stone. Some people have a couple of meals a day and some people have way more than three. I naturally just left my own devices, probably would eat around two, but having one extra fuller meal helped me put on weight and some extra muscle. And of course, you want to combine this with your regular strength training, resistance training, the stuff you might already be doing. Actually, last year, if you look at some of my videos around summer, people started commenting and say, "Wow, you're getting bigger." I didn't change my exercises that I was doing. I just ate an extra burrito bowl a few times a week. I wasn't all muscle, but there you go. Burrito bowls. Okay. And when I'm trying to lose weight, again, I'm probably a little bit different than a lot of people watching this, so I'm not sure how much you'll find this helpful, but I wanted to share. When I am trying to lose weight, I just eat the protein meals first. I eat the protein foods which are a little bit more satiating and then I eat the stuff surrounding it. I usually end up eating a little bit less now. Very importantly, but I still get the nutrients that required for me to grow and thrive. I've noticed some people struggle with this goal when they try to reduce too much perhaps a bit too quickly. So, they might barely eat or not eat a lot for a couple of days. I'm not recommending this. On the third day, because the body is smart and tries to survive, it'll eat more. it'll kind of cancel out the reduction they had in the first few days. So, how you can kind of work around this is through a slight deficit if you're trying to lose weight. Same thing I try to do, a slight one. When it's too much, I'll feel it. I won't feel great. And I kind of want to talk about that just real quick here. It kind of goes beyond the scope of this, but I feel like there's a little bit of misunderstanding when people say a calorie is a calorie. So, you can get calories from Sour Patch Kids and you can get calories from lean chicken. And the example that some people use is like, yes, you could eat just what seems like a very unhealthy food. I like Sour Patch Kids. I don't really eat them, but what seems like a very unhealthy food, which is like a handful of Sour Patch Kids a day. Just eat a bag of those and nothing else. Then it's quite possible that you might lose weight. But it's also very possible, I don't know if there's any way around it, that you would feel terrible. So yes, a calorie is a calorie as far as a measurement of volume and how much is going in and how much is going out. But what you eat and the balance of it can really affect how you feel and how you perform, which is why I try to have just a balanced diet, which I admit is honestly pretty boring compared to some of the food choices out there, but it works for me. So, if you're watching this with the goal of changing something about what you eat or how much, I want to mention that there are many different things that seem to work for different people. So, we can read about different athletes and some of these people I know in person, people I know personally, and they seem to eat many different things and they can perform pretty well. So my point is that there might be something that works very well for you. So you don't have to follow what I do. I just wanted to share what I eat as an example. But if you find the change hard, let's say you just want to eat a little bit more fruits and vegetables and maintain weight or you want to gain a little bit of weight or you want to lose a little bit of weight, I will mention that all the things I've mentioned, uh, the initial change is usually harder than the sustained change. And what I mean is that when I try to eat that extra meal a day, at first I don't really like it, right? I'm like, "Ah, man. I don't really feel like I'm not hungry right now, but I guess I'll eat this banana and yogurt right now." And then a few days in, I'll feel hungry around that time, and it becomes more natural, and I actually feel better when I'm gaining incremental weight. Same with weight loss, or same when I'm trying to eat maybe some more fruits and vegetables. It might seem a little bit different at first, and that part is a little bit harder sometimes. The body is smart and it can adapt to many different things. And as long as you're trying to make a good change, if you give it a few days, you might find it a lot easier to sustain the changes that you want to make. There's a free fitness routine on our website so you can get started from almost any fitness level, support from certified personal trainers if you need that, and a book and ebook version if you want a book or ebook version to help support the channel. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my