! Hey friends, it's your brother Hampton, this video is your brother Hampton, this video is for people trying to get fit, either being fit for the first time, or they were once fit and they're trying to get fit again. I'm currently 30 years old and this is the fitness advice I'll probably give my younger self to make my progress a lot faster. One of the most common questions I get is whether people should bulk first or lose weight. And the answer really depends on what you want to do. It can work either way. However, a lot of people asking this question are often younger, sometimes in their teens, so I usually lean towards saying they should bulk first because I want to do it. I want them to get the nutrients and the food they need in order to grow during this important time in their lives. This might be different if you're working with a good personal trainer, but a lot of people getting started are self-directed and it's usually easier, in my experience, for people to bulk first because if you're getting all the food and nutrients you need, you can make progress a lot easier. Now that said, some people still want to lose weight first, especially for appearance reasons, and if that's what you want, you can try it out. There's no real reason you can't lose weight first and then gain muscle or vice versa. It's really just up to your preference. However, I want to specify that when I say bulk, I mean gain muscle and really get stronger while gaining muscle. So if you're watching this and you feel like I don't want to bulk because it sounds big and I feel like I'm already too big and I want to lose weight, keep in mind that gaining muscle is handy. It's rarely ever a bad thing. And putting on muscle and getting stronger will help your other fitness goals, so just something to keep in mind. Another very common question that we get is what if I'm not making progress or am I making progress fast enough? There's a common mantra that you'll hear in fitness that the speed of results don't necessarily matter as much as the consistency. So as long as you're getting better, don't worry too much about the speed. And I understand why this is a common mantra because a lot of fitness beginners want results fairly quickly. They want things to happen in a few weeks or a few months rather than years, which I get, but good results, big results usually take years or some time. That said, I feel like it's fair to know that if you are putting in the work and you feel like you have been very consistent and you still are not seeing progress a few weeks in or even a few months in, that is enough time to see some results. And if your progress photos aren't changing, if your numbers aren't going up, if your numbers aren't going down, whatever goal you have, if there's no progress, then you may want to consider making a change. And the changes you make will depend on your goals. The most common fitness goals are usually gain muscle, get stronger, lose fat, or some combination thereof. Also increased mobility. And a new good trend, in my opinion, is people want to protect their joint health. And for callous thanks channels, people sometimes want to learn things like handstands, which I would consider skills. Firstly, I want to note that people often wonder if the everything they're doing is working. Will calisthenics work? Will weights work? Will bands work? Will going to the gym and using machines work? Will isometrics work? And all of those things will work if you do them consistently. Pretty much anything with progressive overload will work in the sense of resistance training. I don't say that to confuse you, but really to try to reassure you that your modality, whether it's barbells, calisthenics, or dumbbells, is probably okay. Kind of all too. And by being consistent, I don't mean necessarily working on every day, but multiple times a week. Long term progress. However, you also have to stay progressive. And in this context, I mean that your workout will get harder as you get fitter, stronger, and more able. An easy way that we often see this is the weight that you're able to lift will get heavier over time. And I bring it up here because if you've stuck to the same routine very consistently for a long time and haven't changed the weight that you're lifting, the speed you're lifting it, the repetitions, the sets, then you may have already adapted to that routine and you need to change something in order to spur new growth. That said, I review a lot of beginner custom workout plans that they've made themselves. And a lot of people have way too many exercises per muscle group. I think the idea is they get different ideas, some from me, some from another YouTube channel, some from Reddit, and they want to combine all of them into a super workout routine, which is cool. That sounds awesome. But in general, the more exercises you have, the less intensely you can do them on any given day and the less focus you can give them. It's not bad to have multiple different exercises, especially depending on your goal. But let's say for triceps, you do diamond pushups, lever pushups, one arm pushups, tricep kickbacks, tricep extensions, narrow grip bench press. If you do all of those, most of those exercises are fine. But if you do all of them in the same session, you probably won't be able to get the same results and pour the same energy into them as if you're doing just the same two or three. Now getting enough intensity and volume is important for things like muscle growth and strength. But if you're not seeing progress and you have a lot of exercises, I recommend trying to focus on a few key exercises, even if just for a few weeks and a few months. Try to improve at them, so make your numbers go up. And then you can add more exercises and accessory exercises as you get better at them over time. You'll just become more experienced and in tune with your workout. Now that said, at a risk of confusing some people, hard and tense and doing a lot of something isn't necessarily good, especially depending on your goal. So we see very incredible feats from people like David Goggins who ran, I don't even know anymore, a very long distance and did a lot of pull-ups. Which is really impressive and a testament to human ability, but you don't necessarily have to do that if your goal is to get stronger or gain muscle or even to lose weight. Those things I mentioned are really more endurance feats, for example. And I bring it up because a lot of people who are getting started into fitness, the fitness knowledge they have, the fitness knowledge we have when we're starting out is from popular media, even if we don't completely realize it. Movies, books, TV shows, when they mention fitness or training in them, they usually show the character working really hard. And working hard is important for growth, but these are sometimes exaggerated a bit for the sake of the story. Just because something hurts, just because something is hard, just because something is intense, doesn't mean that it'll make you better or stronger. We see this with some younger people who say, well, my friend did 20 push-ups, so I'm going to do 30, then I'll do 50, then the next day I'll do 500. And that's cool, but just make sure that your training matches your goals, which takes some time to understand. And if all of that sounds really confusing and you're thinking, Hampton, you said that you weren't trying to overwhelm me and confuse me, and yet you've overwhelmed me and confused me. And I'm sorry, that isn't my intention, but I'm just trying to be thorough. What you can probably do is, if you're able, you can hire a good personal trainer who has been where you want to go. Meaning, if you want to be a bodybuilder, it really helps if they've been a bodybuilder before. If you want to be a very good sprinter, it will help if they've been a sprinter before. And if you're unable to work with a trainer or don't want to, then I recommend trying to find a workout program from someone you trust. And it's good at what they do, rather than trying to build your own custom workout plan right away. Yes, we're all different and we have slightly different goals, but our bodies work similarly enough that a trained professional who has built many different workout programs has usually built one that's similar enough to what you want. That if you follow it to the letter, just for a few weeks or a few months to see how it works and feel the flow of things, that may really help you feel progress. And then you can make adjustments later on. Another big topic that you've probably already heard something about is sleep and rest. Even outside of fitness, we talk about the importance of getting adequate sleep and adequate rest. It's important for physical fitness. It's important for mental fitness. We just tend to thrive more and enjoy life more and be happier people when we get enough rest. And that's cool, but I still wish there were more actionable tips circulating around sleep. It took me a while. When I was a teen, everyone said sleep was important. I said, that's cool. I'm going to try to sleep. It took me a while to understand that it wasn't just about disciplining myself into sleep. Like, huh, it's 11 p.m. I'm going to bed, close my eyes. And two or three hours later, I think, why am I still awake? And I used to think there was some kind of mental pattern exercise to force myself to sleep during that time. That's what works for some people, but just didn't always work for me. The very broad tip I can give you that took me a while to learn, but has really helped, is that getting adequate sleep isn't just about the moment you decide to go to sleep. It really revolves around setting up your day around that. The things you do earlier that day, when you wake up, when you went outside, how much physical activity you got, how stressed you were, all of that can affect how long and how well you sleep. A major lever for people is to not necessarily reduce the amount of caffeine they drink, though that can help, but to monitor when you're drinking it. If you're drinking energy drinks, soda, coffee, and it's after 3 p.m., 4 p.m., 5 p.m., it's likely it will affect your sleep in some way, even if you feel like it doesn't. I'm not saying that you can't still fall asleep and you haven't fallen asleep in the past. I'm saying it probably is still in your system at that point. So by definition, it should be still affecting you somewhat, even if you've built a resistance to that. Giving yourself several hours to wind down a little bit before you sleep can really help. I know that when I have to work late, and let's say that I'm writing this new section for my book, and I'm up until 2 a.m. or 3 a.m., I usually can't fall asleep right after that. So when possible, I know it's hard, I try to do my focused, intense work earlier on in the day. Then at night, I try to eat, rest, read, talk with family, talk with friends, and better give myself an environment to want to fall asleep. Another big point of discussion if you're trying to make progress is what we eat, how much we eat, and how we eat it to a degree. I understand some people watching this don't necessarily want to talk about food, so please feel free to skip this section if you want. But I do want to talk about what we eat because it can seriously impact our goals and how we're reaching them. If your goal is to build muscle and get stronger, not even necessarily bodybuilding, but you just want to get more muscular overall, how much protein you're eating and how much food you're eating makes a big impact. If you don't eat enough, then you will not grow. It really took me probably more time than I should have to really understand this because I never really had that many appearance-based goals. I just wanted to get stronger. I knew how to eat enough protein and enough food, but I was really someone who just wanted to practice movements and exercise. If you're not making progress in the sense that you're not gaining muscle and you're not getting stronger, take a serious look. Consider taking a serious look at what you eat and how much you eat. I try to eat a fairly balanced diet, so I get plenty of proteins, carbs, and fats, micronutrients, and I try to drink enough water. I intentionally put on about 20 pounds this year. You'll see that I look skinnier in March and April this year. In the past couple of months, I put on some muscle and I see some comments about that. Just to give some clarity around this, my exercise program was pretty much the same throughout all of that, but I just decided to eat more. If you want to know, I just ate an extra burrito bowl a day. Not even every day, but just several times a week. And that boost was what made the difference. I still slept the same. I still exercised almost the same. It was just extra food. So yeah, it makes a difference. If you're trying to lose weight, a common thing I see is people usually want to make up for lost time and they want to lose weight very quickly. It's something that I get a lot. What's the fastest way to lose weight? I want to lose 50 pounds by Christmas. What's the best way to do that? I don't even know what the fastest way to lose weight is. Probably amputation, but it doesn't mean it's good for us. Don't do that. For long-term fitness and health, I recommend a gradual weight loss. So if you're trying to do caloric deficit, a gradual caloric deficit. How much depends on the person, but a 300 to 500 deficit is commonly used. Again, I know some people don't want to talk about food and I respect that. But I also don't want to give the impression that doing push-ups and pull-ups alone is enough to make you drop tens of pounds. It usually isn't. However, low-hanging fruit for a lot of people is usually sugary drinks like soda and sugary snacks like candy. Again, we want to make sure we're getting enough nutrients to sustain and support our fitness progress and our health. If you're looking for an easy way to reduce calories and minimize negative impact to your health, most people can probably reduce the amount of soda they take, for example, without too much negative side effect. Some people have told me they've lost weight mostly just from reducing soda and going for walks every day, which is very believable. And I also want to mention that supplements like protein powder and creatine can be helpful for some fitness goals, but are not necessary, especially to get started. Protein powder is helpful once you start tracking your macros and you want to meet a certain amount, especially after you get pretty muscular. But don't feel like you can't make progress without supplements because you almost certainly can. Like I mentioned before, I recommend taking advice from people that have been where you want to go. It doesn't have to be the same person. So let's say you want to sprint, you want to gain muscle, and you want to be mentally healthy. That could be different people that you follow for that. But when you take advice from someone, I'm not saying it's wrong if they haven't been where you want to go. But just keep in mind that it can be helpful if they have experience with the thing that they're talking about. If I'm learning violin, I'd want to learn from a violinist. And I feel like in the fitness industry, fitness media, fitness social media, there's a lot of discussion around steroids and performance enhancing drugs. There's already a lot of discussion around that if you want to look into it. But for the purpose of this video, I will say this. You can still make a lot of progress without steroids. So don't feel like you need them. If the person giving you advice is on steroids, the potential of how much they can grow and how fast they can grow is probably higher than your natural threshold. Their advice can still be very solid and very good, depending on the person, of course. But for the context of this video, I just want to emphasize that you can make a lot of progress, especially if you're just starting out. A lot of progress in fitness without steroids. So don't feel like you need steroids. Especially if we're getting lean. So you see some people with a lot of muscle mass and that may not be possible without steroids. But some muscle mass and good leanness, which is the goal for a lot of people, is very achievable. Keep in mind that your goals will probably change over time. As you exercise more, as you learn more. You might think you want that starting off. You might think, I want to be a bodybuilder. And then you try bodybuilding and you think, man, this is tough and I don't like it. Like not only is it hard, but the results that you're actually seeing and what you're getting from that isn't quite what you thought it would be. Alternatively, maybe you thought you want to do calisthenics, but you really like weights more. It seems more trackable, more simpler to progress. I get that. Sometimes you may want to focus on muscle. Sometimes you may want to focus on strength. Sometimes you may want to focus on skills. This is the other side to the consistency coin. You do want to stick with one thing instead of bouncing back and forth. That's usually not a good way to make progress. But after you have stuck with something for a while and you feel your goals changing and you're feeling a little bit bored with it and it's been several months, it's usually okay to tweak your goals. Almost everyone has different goals and the oscillation between different goals, let's say gaining muscle and gaining strength, can actually help maintain our long-term progress. That's why there's discussions around things like periodization and intensification and accommodation. Be consistent, but it's okay to make a change sometime. That's the advice I have for now. Thank you so much for watching. If you want a free fitness routine, we have one on the website, a book version if you want a book, and a beta app version if you like fitness apps. Thank you so much for watching. I hope this could help. Have a beautiful day, my friend.