If you want to do more reps of anything, it will really help you to know what's stopping you. There are only like three things it could be. The first is having a weak link that isn't directly part of what you're trying to train. So, if you can do 15 pull-ups without your grip, but your grip only allows you to do five, how many can you do? But if that's your problem, the good news is that you can unlock a lot of growth very quickly because you're basically just showing the strength you already have if you're not limited by your grip strength. So, if you spend some time just hanging after your workout to train your grip strength, or you can just use straps if you want a quick workaround, and that would mean that you can suddenly do like three times as many pull-ups, which is awesome. The second is a mobility or technique issue that's stopping you from working where you're trying to work, which is actually pretty common in something like wall push-ups. People tell me they're stuck at like 25 or something. I'm like, "No, I think you're strong enough to do that." And what I do is I see their wrist way down here, and they are plenty strong enough to do 50 or more wall push-ups, but they're being limited by their wrist strength. They're like, "Ah, it's hurting." So, you're not actually working the pushing muscles you're trying to work. A quick work around for some people is just to use their fingers. By the way, >> there's a weird guy here, so I might just finish up. This can happen across many different exercises. So, next time you're trying to do as many as you can, find out what's stopping you from doing more. If it's something like your knees here, like, oh, I can just adjust how I'm doing this, you can film yourself and watch back and wow, suddenly you can do many more reps. You're amazing. And the last one after you've unlocked those is sometimes you just do need to train or recover a little bit more, which is probably the most boring one. But do a few hard sets maybe twice a week. Find a progression where you can do at least five good reps and you should see some progress over time. Have a beautiful day.