 RJoJoJo, pending, other projects, channels, and relationships I've made as a result that have brought a lot of good into my life and hopefully the lives of other people. And while I have talked about this before, I really don't bring it up that often, but I want to share a mindset that helped me survive one of the most negative experiences in my life at the time. And not to survive, but build something for my future and my family's future to help us continue to grow and thrive despite a tremendous loss. Because that's what my mom would have wanted for us, right? And I share this also because people have asked for a video on dealing with hard times and dealing with grief, which I'm kind of bundling together here. There's a lot I could say on this topic, but it really comes down to a fairly simple mindset that has a few important details. And first to start off, I want to give a little bit of context because I was lucky enough growing up to have a pretty good relationship with my parents, as I mentioned, and our family was relatively close. And like a lot of people, like some people who have this relationship with their family and their parents and their loved ones, I always had the idea that I wanted to grow up and when I'm able, pay back my parents and my family in some way, because they did work very hard to provide me the best life that they could. Not just money, but they also tried their best to be there for me emotionally. Everyone does it in different ways. And try to teach me the tools, the mindset, the idea of helping others, things that would help me thrive in life. So my mom first had her stroke, a large one, and she was fully disabled. And it really wasn't looking good. This was especially devastating for me because suddenly there was a very real possibility that I wouldn't be able to pay them back. And it ultimately came true. So it was very hard on me. I kind of sped through the story at the beginning just to give a summary and give context, but I don't want to give the impression that it was easy or I didn't care. And I started a YouTube channel. However, like I mentioned, my family was close. So I wasn't the only person dealing with similar things. And there was other family who are strong mentally and physically that ended up struggling with the situation a lot more. It hit me hard, but it hit them a lot harder. People deal with grief in different ways. And I'm not necessarily built differently than these people. I know people have their differences, everyone's slightly different, but my main structure is the same. And it was around this time, because of this and because of other people asking me, that I started considering how I dealt with grief in life, how I faced difficult situations in life. And to a related note, also how I managed fear and insecurity. And some of it stems from things in neuroscience and psychology. There's multiple studies on things like introspection, but a lot of it is also based off parables and teachings from different cultures around the world. So that's pretty much the origin of where I got this. And essentially it comes down to this. When there's a new hardship that we're facing, it's because there's a new reality that has been imposed on us, on our current reality. And it's like an intruder into our life. So it could be the loss of a loved one. It could be the loss of a job. It could be health issues. These are all hardships of varying degrees that we dislike. And we can either choose to accept this new reality, or we can try to fight it. We can try to change it. And when I say that, I don't mean that one is better than the other, because as you can imagine, it's situational, right? There are some things that we really cannot change to any great extent, or it's very, very difficult, maybe beyond our current ability to change. And we can just accept it, pivot, and try to move on or move to a different direction. But there are also some things where, no, we want to try to change this. This is not fair. We can fight this, or we can find someone to help us fight it. Just to give an example, let's say a tree fell on your house. No one was hurt, but your house is pretty much gone now. And you have to get insurance to rebuild it. It's a hassle. But you can't really change the fact that a tree fell on your house. You can just try to make the best of the situation. Thank goodness everyone was okay. And another one is someone coming in trying to take your house. It just moved into the living room and said, this is mine now. Why don't you have a better TV? Pretty simple black and white examples there. But one, you can try to change that and remove this person from your house. And the other is something you can accept. I have noticed for whatever reason in my life that I lean towards acceptance, almost to a fault, because I feel like that is what brings me peace the quickest. When I'm very comfortable in my current reality, and there's a new change that came in, sometimes completely unexpected, and it just blindsides us. And that really sucks. But I feel like I can pick myself up, recognize where I am, new situation I'm in, new hand that I'm dealt. How can I make the best move optimistically and enjoy my life with the cards that I am dealt. And before I deviate too far into tangents and metaphors and things, that is, looking back, largely how I started to accept my mother's illness and eventual passing. In fact, finding out that she was sick. The day she got sick, and the subsequent months and the weeks, the first several hours and days after a stroke are really important, by the way. That time might have been harder for me emotionally than the time where she actually passed away, even though both were hard. Because one was sudden, and the other, I had a gradual understanding and acceptance of a possible reality in the future. I just knew she was sick, and while it's possible, there have been stories of people like that getting better. I also knew that there was a chance that she wouldn't. And that ultimately did help me deal with the passing of my mother, because I was somewhat prepared for this possibility, and I was less blindsided than I was when she first initially got sick. And she really wasn't that unhealthy back then. Hemorrhages are rough because they can happen very suddenly. If you want to know the story behind it, she sneezed consecutively multiple times in a row, and sneezes seem pretty harmless, but the hospital explained that each sneeze raised her blood pressure and intracranial pressure just slightly until it eventually burst a blood vessel. Bad stuff, but who knew? And while that can work, there are times when I've learned that is the wrong mindset to have for me. There were better ones out there. And a good example to illustrate this is in 2017, we had a family pet, a family dog, who was fairly old get lost. He usually doesn't leave the area around the house, but he was missing one day. We searched all over for several days, asked friends, and we couldn't find him. And it was near wintertime, I believe, so it wasn't looking good. And around the time, my brain already started to accept and mourn his passing. So my brain had already thought, hmm, it's unlikely that he's still alive. I love the dog, but it's unlikely that he's still alive. He may have passed, who knows what happened. I'm very thankful and grateful for the time that we spent together, and I like to think that he's in a better place. But turns out he wasn't in a better place, because my dad didn't want to give up. He very much is a fighter and a changer. And he kept searching, even when I said that it probably wasn't the best. And he eventually found our dog, who was alive, and we brought him home. And he lived for a while after that, and we had several happy moments that we wouldn't have had if everyone had my same mentality, my same mindset, which I wouldn't call a defeatist mindset. But at that point, I learned that maybe I was so wary of being bruised mentally, that I ultimately came up with a shield, which was acceptance. Acceptance of things that I didn't necessarily need to accept yet. Because if you fight for something, and it doesn't end up working out, it can sometimes end up hurting a lot more. That's the trade-off. So something that had the potential to protect me later on, but not something I should overuse, I should use situationally. And the question that some of you may have that might naturally come to mind is, well, how do we know what to accept and what to fight and change? And it's tough, because it's situational. Sometimes we aren't entirely sure, and we can't be sure. So we just have to do our best, make the decision that we think is right, and learn from that. However, a very important detail that I learned, that I mentioned at the beginning, is that I don't have to accept and deny things in their entirety. Let's say you've had a happy job and career for several decades, and then all of a sudden, new management is put in, right? And they don't like you as much, and suddenly you are in danger of losing your job. So the slight change on the example that I gave before, but it's still a new reality. You had a safe, secure job that you enjoyed, that you were good at for a while. Now all of a sudden, it's in jeopardy. There's a chance you might lose your job. So you can either choose to accept this, or you can choose to fight it. But like with many things, as we get more advanced, and we learn more, there's some nuance. Because you can learn with experience to identify and accept things that you can't change. But you can still try to change the things and work hard towards the points of that, that you can change. Meaning you can accept the reality. It's a very real possibility that management might decide just to remove your position, or remove you from your position, and hire someone else that they know better, that they like better for whatever reason. And some of that is out of your control. You could be amazing at your job, best in the world, but there's still a chance you could lose that job. And if you accept that part of the reality, unfair as it is, you could do everything right, and still feel like you're being punished for that. At the same time, you can also work to change the things that you might be able to change. Let's say for whatever reason, you do want to stay here. Or maybe it'd just be very tough to change jobs because you have to change cities and move your whole family, and it's rough. And you don't hate the new management. You're just not entirely sure about them. Maybe you could try to change what you can by setting up a meeting with them. Meeting with your new supervisor and say, hey, I've noticed there's some new management styles around here. I just want to make sure I'm meeting all the expectations that you want. I'm very used to doing things a certain way, but I want to accommodate your new work style. Is there any way that I can do my job better in your eyes? Is there anything I can do to improve? And I know that can be a sensitive topic for some people because once again, you might have done nothing wrong. It might just be someone's preference. But this is assuming you want to stay and you don't hate these people. And depending on your position, you can also communicate and say, hey, I'm sorry that I don't send a lot of messages. That's what I'm used to, but I know that you'd like more updates nowadays. What if I send an update at the end of every workday? So it's just communication that could possibly help you keep your job if you want to keep it. There's still the possibility that things might change regardless of what you do. But you see how you've accepted part of this new reality, which is that there's part of this that you can't change and there's a part of it that you can. And you've accepted the things that you can't change, but you're working hard to change the things that you can. And that's ultimately the approach I took when facing the situation with my mother. So I was taking care of her. I tried to find her healthy, nutritious food, help her do her physical therapy, set alarms so I could wake up through the night and check on her and really just try to give her the best life that I could. And just a side note, to a degree, I still feel like I could have done better. And there is some slight residual guilt, just full honesty, that I didn't take better care of her during that time. If there is an afterlife that we can communicate freely in, I do want to apologize to her for that at some point. Hopefully decades from now after I made thousands of YouTube videos, millions of YouTube videos. So that's the mindset that I use to approach difficult situations and hard times in my life to where I can deal with negative emotions while still maintaining a degree of cautious, practical, realistic optimism that I can use to grow things and create a better foundation for my future. Because ultimately, whatever new situation that you're in, if you still want to continue living life, we can only benefit by making the best of it and trying to improve our situation as we can and as we want to. And some of you may notice that this sounds familiar. It sounds like the serenity prayer, which I looked up before I did this. So God, please grab me the serenity to accept the things I can't change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference. Maybe subconsciously, but it wasn't the origin of this mindset that I laid out here. I think it's a fantastic mindset to approach many things in life. I think it's used in things like AA, for example. But I didn't purposefully try to model it here. Again, it might have affected me subconsciously. I've kind of touched upon the first two points. And the third point was a little bit of a change, the one about wisdom. So I might add a different one here. And that one is patience. This was something that really does help. It's not something that I necessarily used at the time, but it's something I've learned since then that would have really helped me. So I was around 25 years old at the time, which is some of you might seem very old and some of you might seem very young. But there is a chance that I didn't have this mindset, that I didn't learn these things from neuroscience, psychology, and cultural parables. And the whole thing just hit me like a semi-truck. And I went into a deep depression and tried to do therapy, but I really didn't come out of it. And I really didn't have a job for several years. And just like, kind of like the bad alternative to all of this, right? I could have done that for 10 years, just woken up and still alive, still physically able at age 35, which is older than 25, but that is still younger than the age that some people are when they start. So whoever you might admire, whether it's an entrepreneur or an activist, maybe both, there are examples of people starting in their 40s, 50s, and 60s. And when we experience a setback, it can seem really rough, really hard because, well, before my mom got sick, I'd probably be upset if something sidelined me for a week, two weeks. I'm like, man, I have so many things that I want to do. And this was something that kind of sidelined me for two years. And it's terrible in the moment, and we do want to make the most of our time, but it can be helpful to remember that having strategic patience can help give us a mental peace. Many of us have more time than we realize, especially when we're young, we want to do everything now, but most good things take time. And most people didn't come out of the womb knowing exactly what they want to do. They were certified at 12, world-class at 15, and leading the industry at age 20. Pretty rare cases for that. Whatever your goal is, and however far you may feel like you've been set back, you might have watched this video and been like, man, I wish I had that mindset 5, 10, even 15 years ago, and you feel like it's too late, but it's probably not too late. You can start implementing change. Maybe these changes, if you think they can help you, and making the best of your life and situation, and possibly even helping others. I would consider acceptance of things that you can't change to be peace now. Those are almost immediate release valves. Changing things that we can change, and fighting is fighting for peace later. And patience, which is something I have to work on, can be peace now, but also a lasting peace that's an undertone for the rest of your life if you maintain it. It is dark now, but I really hope that can help, and you have a beautiful day. And if you like discussions and topics like this, check out the Coffee with Hampton podcast channel. There's more there.