There was a time in my life where I would bear crawl every day as part of my morning workout and I ended up building up to around a mile a day and I'm not really recommending that to anyone but it was interesting. So here are five things I learned from bear crawling a mile a day with the fifth being the most I ever crawled at once and an important lesson that I learned. And the first in the theme of other videos in this series that I've been doing is that I did not really have back pain. I had pain as in like pain of exercise in other places, but I didn't have the back pain that some people experience when they're doing this bear crawl. And now you might try it and other people might try it and they might have a ton of back pain. So talk to your doctor before trying. But the bear crawl is a pretty common exercise, especially in some sports. And some people it works really well for and others don't like it at all. And some possible reasons that I had a relatively good experience with it is you could say I built up to it. So there are some things like a marathon that running would be very bad for some people, but for some people because they're conditioned to it and they built up to it, they might be more okay with it. And yes, it's slightly different, but another example is trying to set down 500 lb gently is terrible for most people, but for a relatively small percentage of people, it would make them stronger because they build up to that. Now, is there a limit of what you can build up to safely? Sure. But that limit probably depends on who you ask. It's probably different for the individual, too. Now, do you need to bear crawl a mile a day or run a marathon a day? Probably not. This was a while ago. So, another reason you could say that I was okay with it is I was relatively young. This was over 15 years ago. So, you could say that my youthful body was more okay with the bear crawl. And I also just didn't know about physical training as much, which is part of the fifth lesson. Oh, and I was relatively light at the time, so there might not have been as much pressure on my back. But where I did have some pain, as in pain of exercise, exertion was in my hamstrings. Right? So, we think of this as really a shoulder dominant exercise, maybe an upper body exercise, which I guess it is, but I guess because I was bending like this all the time, like this all the time, and I really wasn't quite used to it. And we were kind of stretching the hips, compressing the leg against the body almost, and it was stretched, which can cause soreness. So, my hamstrings were quite sore. And after a few weeks, they weren't. Now, something else that hurt, but didn't really go away was my hands because I would crawl on gravel road. Again, I do a lot of things that I don't necessarily recommend now, but I want to share them so you can learn from my experience and see that I tried different things building up to what I do now. Which, by the way, we have a fitness routine on our website, habercal calisthenics.com/rine, and a fitness app that we are still constantly improving. It's a lot faster now. We're adding more exercises. There's a lot more that we want to do with it, but I am also a lot more hands-on and helping build it now. So, pretty excited about that. But yes, you may have heard and you might be thinking now like, "Oh, no, no, no. I have to just build up the calluses. then you can start to withstand the pain. You become stronger as a result. I get that. And I did build up calluses from the friction that I had that I was rubbing against the rocks. But there is just a little bit of like small little rocks which they don't cause like severe pain. I'm not bleeding or anything, but they cause little indentations which I really was not building up to. So I talk about good pain versus bad pain. And in this case, we can differentiate a little bit and say pain that makes us stronger and pain that is perhaps is distracting from the exercise and what we're trying to do. And the little rocks pressing into my hands, you could argue building me up mentally, but eventually, especially as you do these for a while, cuz if you crawl 100 ft, cool, not a huge deal. When you crawl for a mile, it really starts to bother your hands. And I would use old sneakers or just flip-flops and I would go like this. And then I felt like this gave me a better workout. So more pain is not always a better workout. And the third, by the way, I would sometimes run like this, which isn't part of a traditional bear crawl, but I was like, I'm a bear. I can shake trees. And maybe as I shake progressively larger trees, I'll be able to push one down. That would be super impressive. But of course, I was a silly little goofball. I still kind of am. But while I built some muscle mass, I did not build any significant muscle mass from that. Of course, most people watching this, many people watching this already know this, right? It's a very endurance-based exercise. Anything that you can do like an hour of or a mile of or like a lot of usually isn't targeted towards building muscle. Now, will you build some muscle from it? Possibly. Quite possibly. You can build some muscle from running depending on your fitness level and how you're running. But I mentioned this here because I know a lot of people watching this are on the younger side. And there's a tendency for young guys, as someone who was a former young guy, to be like, hm, interesting. Tough guys can be muscular. Tough guys do tough things. Therefore, if I do tough things that are hard, I will also be muscular. And while there's not a 0% connection between those things, it isn't direct. You can do a hard thing. You can do hard exercises. You can do a lot of an exercise that you saw on your favorite TV show or anime or cartoon that won't necessarily build you towards the fitness goals you want. But especially as you're starting out, this kind of thing to where you have unilateral movement where you can do this and you can balance and you can move around a little bit more freely was really good for overall athleticism and helped me when I was wrestling later in my teens. Obviously skill specific training. I was a little bit closer to the ground. It did help. There was some core engagement from this and that's partially why I think I had decent core and shoulder strength later on when I started training more and endurance of course because you're doing something for a relatively long time. Now, the wrist thing I want to talk about because it's kind of an unspoken benefit of calisthenics and this kind of training in general. I'm sure some people have mentioned it, but I don't hear it that often enough, and it's one of the things I still miss about doing this kind of training. You can benefit from bear crawl. You don't need to do anywhere near a mile a day, but building up a little bit, this can still be a good warm-up exercise and a good conditioning exercise. But think about this, like I was mentioning with the rocks, as people become more advanced in exercise, they realize and they define their goals a little bit more specifically, as they know more. That's largely a good thing. And they recognize just as a whole that hm if I'm limited by my fingers or my wrist or some part that I am not trying to train right now, then I should bolster that in some way. Okay. So, in a similar way to where people will use lifting straps when they're doing deadlifts, they're just trying to build back. They don't they know it can train grip, but grip might not be their focus now. They just want to lift more things, so they strap in. We also have a tendency to want to grip things. So, calisthenics people will turn towards parallettes, parallel bars, right? So, like we know slightly easier to hold something when we're doing push-ups, handstands, plches, different moves. It's a little bit easier to do that than have palms on the ground. And same thing for push-ups. But remember, we get better at what we train. So, as people move towards that, and there's some very advanced gymgoers and fit, otherwise very fit people who have relatively weak wrists. I would say that my wrist could also stand to be stronger because I don't do as much flat palm exercise as I used to, whether through push-ups, which I still do of course, whether through bear crawl or other exercises like that. And it's not something I really use in day-to-day life, but it is something that I would like to have. So, I do a lot of business work on my phone, on my laptop, and things are built for efficiency to where I don't have to bend my wrist that much, but as a result, my wrists have gotten weaker. You could argue that I don't really need the flat palm strength, but I would say it is a nice thing to have to build up a little bit to where a little bit can go a long way to where you can still support your body weight or part of your body weight on a bent wrist without wrist pain. So, that's my spiel on that. And so the most I ever crawled that I remember is about 3.2 miles. And if that sounds like a lot, then keep in mind this was a while ago. And I don't really consider it that much of a milestone, then you can build endurance exercises that don't require that much force, quite a bit. And I think one day I decided, well, I want to see how much I can do. And I did about 3 miles. And I was like, that was a lot for me at the time. And I was pretty sore. And was it worth it? I would say maybe kind of right. It makes a cool story and it was part of my learning of fitness. But what I learned was I was expecting a lot of things from this exercise that I may not have gotten that I didn't get. So we have a lot of training knowledge that has been built for a long time. But there are some exercises that we traditionally use that may not be the most suited for the goals that we have. So things like different exercises named after animals, they can be pretty cool and they can be helpful. Like I said, bear crawl, you know, has benefits to it. But it's used in martial arts training, it's used in sports training, but is this the ideal for the goals that we have? And I think one could make an argument that not necessarily, right? There might be better things that we can do that are more specific for the goals we want. If you want to be better at baseball, right, then there might be more baseball specific training we can do. there might be better general conditioning that we can do. Now, is it bad and is it that far from the ideal? I don't know. It really depends on your goals. But an important lesson that I learned from this experience and kind of the collective experiences in this series, I think I have a few more to tell, is that just because something is hard doesn't mean it's ideal. Doesn't mean that it's necessarily bad, but just because it's tough doesn't mean that it will bring us closer to the goals that we want. In this case, I don't think it was necessarily bad. I think I had a pretty good experience with bear crawl. I would like to incorporate it a little bit more into my training. Maybe just like 100 yards here and there. It was good mental conditioning, but as I learned more about fitness, I realized there were things that could bring me closer to the things I want. But first, I had to decide and understand and learn about what I actually wanted, which takes some self-reflection. If you want strength and muscle, there are probably better exercises. But if you want to get really good at the bear crawl, then bear crawl might be your optimal exercise. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day.