 I've done Tai Chi since I was about three years old. That's what my parents told me, anyway. I don't remember that much from when I was three, so I can only assume I was not that great at Tai Chi. But if you're wondering what it is, it's basically an ancient Chinese martial art that more commonly nowadays is used as exercise, the series of flowing movements and postures, some have called it meditation in motion. And I don't do that much Tai Chi nowadays. However, I was a part of a Tai Chi group for many, many years, and I have seen it help a lot of people. So even if you remove some of the more outlandish claims about it, it is something that has been researched. But the primary benefit that I've noticed for it, for myself, is not the one that a lot of people mention. So I wanna talk about it here. And it is something that I think a lot of people can use to benefit themselves, even if they have no interest in Tai Chi. And if you're wondering why I'm suddenly bringing this up, I made a video on Tai Chi back in 2020. That's back when the channel was a little bit small and I just wanted to make stuff I was interested in. And it recently had a small spike in views. I was like, why am I getting emails asking about Tai Chi? It's like, oh, that's why. And I wanna talk about it a little bit here. And there's a tiny amount of drama around that that I'll mention at the end if anyone's curious. And the lasting benefit that I see from Tai Chi isn't so much the movements, which tend to differ quite a bit from different styles. And beyond just open Tai Chi, which is how a lot of other forms start, there are a lot of little nuances in what we consider to be best. And I'll talk about that in a bit. But the real benefit that I think a lot of people immediately noticed as they were starting with our group is the mental benefits and the focus benefits. And it's not really surprising for something they call meditation in motion, right? But in our group, there was someone who usually taught the beginners that we're interested in. And he told them, I remember one time, he said, ideally you would start and then seven minutes later, which is around how long it took to do our form, seven minutes later, you would wake up. And I thought, that's a good way of putting it because the idea is that it was basically flow state from a couple of thousand years ago, right? Flow state before it was cool. So you would do Tai Chi and you just be focused on the movements themselves. And if you're like, well, I would do like this style, I would do that style and actually had my hands up or down or like my fingers are supposed to be pointed that way. And I'm not invalidating that. But I'm saying, if you think of the mental benefits, a lot of it just does come from calming down and focusing into staying locked in on the moment. And so you're not worrying ideally about like your taxes, you're not worrying about what happened a few minutes ago. You're just thinking about, huh, I'm only going to do this movement. I'm going to intentionally, intentionally place my feet here and stay balanced while I move through this. Now it does require the memorization of the form. So at first, you know, if you're following along on YouTube, you can't really lock in and be in flow state when you're like, wait a second, why is he staying there? Oh, just buffering. And so you have to learn at first. But after it takes like, you know, like a couple hours, you know, maybe a couple of weeks of like consistent practice and you learn a form or you kind of just go through the motions, then you can start to really focus on the form. And that is the benefit that I've seen a lot of people have. It is something that they've studied a bit. So there are cognitive benefits. And you could say, well, those, those studies were done on older individuals, Hampton. It may not apply to you. And yeah, you're right. By all means, don't take this as medical advice, go talk to your doctor. I don't know what's going on in your mind. It may not work for you. I'm just saying that the benefit of Tai Chi that I noticed for myself and for others is learning to stay present in the moment. And there's nothing really that special about the movements. I'm kind of saying this hesitantly from an exercise science standpoint. So this is why some of the claims are like, wow, I unlocked tremendous joint and tendon health through doing the form. And I realize not everyone is saying this, but there's not a whole lot of resistance, especially upper body that you're doing. So yes, it can burn some calories. And it's great for keeping people moving and as gentle and as low impact. That's awesome. But for building like strong upper body strength, maybe there's some way to do it. I'm not quite aware of just doing Tai Chi and becoming massively strong in some of the things. I just want to focus on the mental benefits, which is something that I have experienced myself, something I've taught to others, and something that we somewhat understand the research behind. But as I mentioned in the introduction, I understand not everyone has an interest in doing Tai Chi. Even if you're like, huh, that's interesting. And then you can never really want this. But I think a couple of weeks to learn something is at least a slight commitment. I understand. So I want to talk about a way where a lot of people can get started with this. The camera might go a little bit blurry here, but it was actually one of our Tai Chi instructors. He was telling the story. And I don't remember the names of it. So you can take it as legend if you want. But a man goes up to these monks and I think he's on like two week leave. And he says, or three week leave, he's like, hey, what can you teach me in three weeks? And they're like, well, not a whole lot. He's like, well, I only have three weeks. Right. And it's like, it takes years. And I only have three weeks. What can you teach me? He says, here's a room. Every day we'll give you some food and some water. But during your waking hours, you put one foot in front of the other, you walk from one side of the room, step by step, and you only focus on those steps. And then when you reach the other side of the room, you turn around and you do the same and you repeat. And you only focus on those steps. And if you want to do that and you have a safe place to do it, that is a similar dynamic to moving through the forms. Now, is there benefit from going through different Tai Chi? Yeah, sure. Right. You know, like there is a little bit of mobility. Some of them require a little bit of flexibility, especially if you look at some of the forms, if you don't want to try them, you can look at them. You're like, okay, yeah, that would, you know, some of them, it's more lower body strength. Some of them might require a little bit more physicality and they would have some benefits. But if you don't want to do any of that and you just want to benefit from what I would consider the mental benefits of Tai Chi, then walking or some kind of repetitive motion, it doesn't cause any pain, low impact, and you can do safely, just only focus on that. And if you want, you can set a timer and it goes off and like, 10 minutes, 15 minutes. And this has really helped me stay focused. Or not even just focused, but like present, I guess. I don't want to use a buzzword, but it's like focusing on the present moment, which even decades later, I have found has some very practical benefit to my life. Because if you think about something that, let's say you have a lot of reasons to be stressed, right? That's something I feel like if this were a room, I'm like, who here has at least some good reason to be stressed? How full do you think the room would be with like hands? I feel like we would see a lot of hands. But yep, everyone has different reasons. Like yeah, like health problems, family, job, there's usually stuff. And then I would say, who here thinks they perform better under stress? Right? And it's like, a couple of people's hands would go up. They're like a performance under pressure. Right? But where I would get that is like, yes, I would want the motivation of that pressure so I can do the stuff, of course. But when I'm actually in the middle of it, like let's say my job is to play music, or my job is to give speeches, or my job is to write the best book or article or thing or make the best YouTube videos. I can't do that quite as well. When I have something in the back of my mind, where I'm like, this is, I gotta do it. I gotta do it. I gotta do it. It's like, I don't actually don't really have that much issue working under pressure in that sense. But if I'm focused on stuff that might happen, and then stuff I'm trying to focus on now, then I'm kind of splitting my attention there. And it just really helps if I can go, I'm just gonna do this, I'm gonna do the best thing. I have determined previously that this is the thing I need to be working on now. I'm gonna do this to the best of my ability. And then after I'm done, I will move on to the next thing. And then like pretty much any action plan is going to be basically that. So you've got full clarity on exactly everything you need to do and what probably would happen. You would say, I'll do this, and I'll do this, and this will take me this amount of time, and then I'll do this, and then I'll do this, which is kind of one foot in front of the other, right? I would say one foot in front of the other with extra steps, but no. There are literally no extra steps. It's just like these steps of one foot in front of the other. If there were extra steps, then it'd be different. But yes, the slight drama around the video, if you wanna call it that. I'm not sure what it is about this video. Maybe there's, because there's a section where I'm not talking and I'm just doing the form. But every couple of years, I will get an email saying something like, this video is no longer making you money and the money is now going to this person. And I think I made that video before we really made any money from ad revenue. So it was something I never really considered. I just wanted to put it out there. But every once in a while, someone was like, hmm, I will try to go after this and say that, oh, you use my music without my permission. And it usually is like, if I feel like it, I'll be like, no, I have a license for that. So the music we use is all licensed. I'm like, no, I'll send it in. And they're usually like, all right, fine. And so I think sometimes they've actually just taken some of the money. And I'm not entirely sure if I had, I don't look that deeply into it. I'm not sure if I've gotten it back. And a couple of months ago, I think when this video started taking off a little bit again, I got another one of those emails. And this one was a little bit different because the song they claimed that I used was under a different title and artist than the one that I was licensed for. But I remember downloading that and using it. And it's pretty much exactly the same track. And it was like, ah, ah, ah, actually no, you can just use my editor, you can leave that in. But it'd be pretty silly if they were like, that's a recreation, that's a cover. It's a cover. But it was pretty much the same song. And this time I sent in my license. And they're like, nope, that's not the title of our song. I don't know what happened there. I think more likely someone either copied it or they sampled it because this one's been around for at least five years. It's not a new, new song in that sense. It's been under that title since I've had it. And I've had the license since in 2020. And they were like, no, this is ours. And we're gonna take the money from it. I don't even know how much money it made. Back then I think the ad revenue is different, probably a couple hundred dollars. So it's substantial, I would take it, yes. But it's not that different. But it's a relatively small thing. I don't know if it's the artist or just the company representing the artist. They were like, nope, this one's not okay. It's been okay for five years, but now it's not okay. And I'm like, huh. Sounds like you need to do some Tai Chi. We have a free fitness routine on our website if you wanna check it out, to build pushups, pullups and beyond. We have a fitness app that can help you through that and support from certified personal trainers if you need help. Oh, and we have a fantasy comedy web tune called Traveling Merchant Chronicles that I've been working on for over a year now. Check that out if you're into those kinds of web tunes. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.