 Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du Du that some people would have is, well, what about imbalance? Aren't you creating massive muscular imbalance by only training pushing? Well, not necessarily. And by the way, the reason I'm not going all the way down on these is to avoid hitting my mic. I know that won't fully pacify the internet, but that is why. First of all, I didn't get into the pushups thinking about a perfect routine. I just wanted to start moving, which I encourage people to start doing. I was like, well, I just want to start doing some pushups and some exercise. And that was a very well-known exercise. And I mentioned this in previous videos, but I started doing pushups during commercial breaks while watching TV. It started off being 25 pushups with what I considered slow and good form at the time. And over time, that number increased. And I also increased the number of sets. And it went from fourth of the 25 to six sets of 82. 82 is a weird thing. I'll explain it later. But regarding balance, I saw a discussion online, which basically brought the point that imagine you have a leg that is perfectly balanced, a beautiful leg, but then you also train some quads for a while, right? And you're like, huh, well now you don't train anything else. You only train the quads. And now the leg, by definition, is going to be less balanced because you've gotten stronger with your quads, but not necessarily with your hamstrings, or as I call them, the hamptons. And the question asked, is the leg now stronger overall? You've gotten stronger in your ability to extend the knee, of course, but is now the knee or leg in general weaker because you've only strengthened extension and not flexion? And it's an interesting discussion that different fitness people will talk about. You can look those up online if you want. But just for me, I didn't necessarily feel any issues. However, if I wanted to avoid some residual tension, what I might have done afterwards is do some stretches and different exercises to kind of shake off the residual tension. Shake it off. And the second thought that some people might have is, well, what about overtraining? Aren't you not giving your body enough rest and also doing what some people consider to be an excessive amount of exercise? And for me, eh, I didn't really feel any effects from that. I'm not saying you should do that. Your body can adapt. And I did increase my sets and reps over time as I became like, hmm, this one's getting a little bit easy. Why don't I bump it up a few more reps? So it was a gradual increase. But the reason why you listen to stories of mine where I talk about this, where I add on like 63 or 72, is because sometimes doing the sets, I would lose count. And I'm like, well, I want to err on the side of doing more. So I would just do a few more in case I missed count. So I don't know. I'll say this, that if you're doing pushups and you love it, that's great. But after you get used to higher rep pushups, I don't really feel that much effort from it. It's almost kind of like jogging, especially when you go up and you can rest for a moment. So I don't really feel like 82 was that much for me at the time. And I did take some breaks, not usually because I was too tired for exercise that day, but because there were other things going on in my life. If you try to commit to something every day, there's usually something that comes up every once in a while to knock it loose, a road trip or a flight or something, even to be like, eh, I really didn't have a chance to do all the pushups I wanted. I can try to squeeze in a few sets. And what my coach, one of my sports coaches ended up suggesting was, well, simply add the things you didn't do to the next day. So if I didn't do 500 pushups one day, I would add on 500 pushups to the next day. And I ended up having like this, this pushup debt that ended up being like tens of thousands of pushups that I didn't do over time, which I'll talk about later. But that is also why I ended up doing over a thousand pushups on a few days here and there. Yes, I was a little bit extra sore the next day. By the way, most of you probably already know, but every video there's someone new watching this and I want to direct them. But on our website, there is a free fitness routine. If you want to get started into fitness, that this is what I eventually moved into. And also we spent a lot of time making a home fitness app called hybrid calisthenics. And it's designed to help walk you through building up pushups, pull ups and squats and beyond. And it works really well, especially if you don't want to spend time reading about the program and just want to go like, boom, here are the exercises. Follow this, move on. Here's one to rest. Great job. You're awesome. Check it out. By the way, while a lot of this stuff is anecdotal, of course, and I do have what I consider to be a much better routine nowadays, there were some insights. While I wasn't what I consider to be overtraining, I had kind of a daily barometer on my physical energy level beyond just how I feel, which is a little bit different for those of you into fitness. You know, you can feel good, but not necessarily hit your PR, your personal best that day. And because I was doing sets to near failure around that time, I would usually have a feeling like, huh, so today I can do a little bit more. And it wasn't necessarily the rest and sleep I was getting. That wasn't optimal, but it was pretty much the same around then. For me, the most notable change that I share all the time is not necessarily just getting a poor night of sleep and doing poorly the next day, which does happen. It was actually just the food and how I was eating and living that seemed to have an effect on this. When I moved to California to go to school there for a little bit, I ate not as well. I wanted to go, I wanted to try all these different foods or these restaurants. It was cool, but it was also kind of college living, which I had a good time, but in my experience was not the healthiest. And I noticed for a while, because I was doing my pushups at the time, that I wasn't able to do quite as many regularly. I would have to do basically in-set rest, which I know some people say nowadays. It doesn't really count if you stop, but it was basically, I would get to 60 or so and be like, let me take a quick break and then I'll finish the other two. And I still counted that as six sets of 82, but I guess you could break it up because there were more sets and there were some sets with fewer reps. But I was doing that. I was like, man, this has been happening for a couple of weeks now. Why is that? And in my mind at the time, I was like, well, I'm not eating quite as much of a balanced nutrition plan as I was before. I just didn't have any fruits and veggies, right? So like that was in my mind, I was like, that's the balance I need. So I went on, I got some fruits and veggies. It probably wasn't just the fruits and veggies, but I think it was that new focus I had on getting a little bit more sleep, living a little bit more healthily and trying to get a little bit more of a balanced diet and not just a lot of like side snacks. Making that small little change did increase my average set max. And I went back up to 82 for a little bit. And before I get into why I eventually changed, I want to talk about why I didn't change for quite a while. Something I kind of convinced myself into. And looking back, it was very silly, but at the time, it was something I was dead set focused on. I was calculating how many pushups I was doing a day, which is 492. But the reason I say 500, you know, I joke about never trust an influencer. It wasn't actually 500 pushups. It was 492. The reason I say 500 is because it really fluctuated day to day. Sometimes I would try to do those makeup sets to pay off my pushup debt, so to speak. So it fluctuated. It was around 500 a day and sometimes more, sometimes none, and sometimes less. But I calculated my numbers and I was like, oh, cool. In around seven years, I will have done a million pushups. And my friends were like, yeah, that's great. That's amazing. That's incredible. And so you got some positive reinforcement for that. And I was like, well, I don't want to, you know, like introduce, like, I was reading like about progressive calisthenics, which is what we teach on this channel now. I was like, yeah, I could do harder variations, but then that would like put me off track to where I won't be able to do my million pushups. Right. And this is way before I had a YouTube channel. So like there's no like benefit to me doing this other than me being able to say I did a million pushups that held my attention for a little bit. And eventually I wanted to change. And a few years prior to that moment, to kind of rewind a little bit, my friend had either given me or shown me a book on calisthenics. It was about body weight training and it showed how to build up from things like wall pushups, to one arm pushups, build up to one arm pull ups and beyond. And I'm going to make, I'm going to sound kind of old to some of you, but you know, things were different back then. And it was like, I feel like there's just more access to how to build up to these things now, or at least maybe I'm just more aware of them now than there were back then. So this was new information. That's why I got a lot of people, the idea of building up, not through weight, but through harder variations, got a lot of people into calisthenics and eventually me included. But it took me a few years. I was a late adopter on that because I was like, man, I want to do my million pushups, right? Because this is what I'm used to. And this is the goal I have. And it was really a few years later when I was spending time in Germany, I was studying in Germany for a semester and they did not have, this is what drove me to it. They did not have the unlimited internet that many of us are used to nowadays. And they were kind of experimenting with unlimited. Now I feel like the default is unlimited, but they certainly didn't have that in Germany, at least on the planet that I was. And it cost quite a bit to browse social media and anything image or video heavy while I was eating or out and about anywhere where I wasn't home. So I would read and I downloaded that book and I read the PDF while I was out in restaurants, while I was out, you know, waiting for a train or something. I would read. And it ended up being a very inspiring read. So just beyond just the progressions, the author was also very good at inspiring people. And the author would explain how to get from things like wall pushups to one arm pushups. And it's funny because I don't think he was really intending to be encouraging, but it ended up being quite encouraging because he would respect things like, wow, you can do an incline pushup. That's awesome. And he was doing some very, he was showing some very difficult exercises, some of which still haven't been shown on video, but he would also give respect to things like horizontal pull-ups, knee pushups. And I learned to embrace some of that terminology and that kind of vibe when I showed my family and friends and my girlfriend at the time, wife now, I was like, hey, have you tried doing this? And a lot of it really appealed to them, right? Because we discovered, I'm sure some of you have family. This is one of the magical things about calisthenics is there are some family, especially if you're into fitness, you want them to exercise. You want your family and friends to exercise. But you know, there's probably no way to get some people into the gym. And I don't mean that in a good or bad way. They just don't like the gym. They don't want to go. They don't like the atmosphere. They don't want to dress up for it. They just, they don't want to do that. But you know, hey, if you're looking for a way to get started, you can do some pushups against the wall or on the table, right? And a lot of them are like, I'll do that. They might not do it right now, but they're like, cool, good to know. And now they'll have something to do. It's accessible to people. And the fitness routine we have on the website now is a modified version. It's my personalized version of that fitness routine. Kind of. I do give credit to the people on the website. I have talked to a few of them. They seem pretty cool, but it took me a while to make that change from chasing this arbitrary goal of a million pushups into actual progressive fitness work, which most fitness people will tell you that's probably going to get you more overall. It took me a while. It took me a while. And these, this was progress I could have made at the time. And that was a very valuable lesson I learned because this is what I was used to. It felt weird going to something else. I'm like, what about this other thing that I'm giving up? And it was really me thinking like, who would know that I did a million pushups if I didn't tell them? Right. I wasn't even doing it for like other people. It was, but it was just like, who would know? It's not even like other humans, like plants wouldn't know. My dog wouldn't know. Right. It's like the water wouldn't know. It's kind of like this thing that goes into the air. It's kind of an arbitrary thing. And do I actually care about that? And the answer was really no. And I tried doing, and it was fewer sets and fewer reps than I was used to. Right. It was like two or three sets to near failure. I was like, huh, what in the world? But I ended up being stronger, more muscular, more fit, and I can still do my higher rep pushups. I don't just don't practice them as often. So I got kind of the best of both worlds now from trying something new, but it felt different at first. I don't want to say uncomfortable. I just like, I kind of put it off because I didn't want to try something new, but sometimes trying something new can end up leading to good things. Thank you so much for listening. Have a beautiful day, my friends. New chapter of Traveling Merchant Chronicles, which I'll link right here. It's our webtoon. We appreciate you've checked it out.