There was a time in my life where I resolved around a 5K every single day, rain or shine, for about 3 months. I was booking it like David Gogggins with slightly more hair and much less athleticism and probably slightly shorter, too. And I'm not saying that's a good idea and that you should do it, but I really wanted to improve my time back then. And it was interesting. So, here are five things I noticed with the fifth being how much I improved my time. And comment below if you can guess because it wasn't what I thought. And the first thing I'm just going to run show you is that even though it's associated with running a lot, I didn't have any sort of knee pain. I wouldn't say I have good running technique. Don't follow my technique. I just want to show you that I'm running during a video about running. And I think the reason I didn't experience that early on with running and other exercises is that I was simply lighter at the time. I naturally skew a little bit lighter. I did weigh like 40 50 lbs lighter than I am now. I'll talk about that in a bit. But the second thing that I immediately noticed the day after is that I was very sore because I went right into it. This isn't good training. This is what I did back then. And just by the nature of running, especially if you don't stretch or warm up, you can be quite sore the next day. So it might help and it might be smarter if you work your way up if you start with shorter distances and increase your distance over time. But running itself actually causes a decent amount of muscle damage which at least partially contributes to the soreness. And this is one reason we know that muscle damage is not the primary driver of muscle growth. That's usually considered mechanical tension nowadays among other things. But the point is here that you can damage your muscles quite a bit, which just happens with exercise. It's not always bad, but you can damage your muscles without growing your muscles. And I'm kind of lumping this one in with that. But I would also get quite sick whenever I took a break from running and exercising for a bit. If I go right back into it, just to give kind of an idea, I would get a little bit sick. I would get a cold or something shortly after that. And I think it was at least partially because I jumped right into it and I didn't warm up. I didn't work my way up to whatever I was doing. I leaped right into it. So I may have pushed myself too much back then. And a third is that I sweat a lot. I did this during summer. It actually isn't that hot today. I'm just going to run back and forth. But I was doing this during the summer once again. And after I was done, my shirt would always just be drenched. It wouldn't start off that way. It would just be soaked. I'd have to change. To this day, I think that was the most I ever regularly sweat. Wrestling practice came close. You sweat a lot during wrestling. It was a profuse amount of sweat. Think like chronic fitness influencer attempting to be normal. Challenge level impossible, right? Oh, by the way, you may have noticed that I kind of run on the balls of my feet. Nowadays, I don't always run even in these sneakers back then. I didn't have these sneakers, but I did not even hear at the time about the thing where you're not supposed to strike your heel while you're running. Honestly, I don't really run that much anymore. So, I don't know the discourse on this. I just know some people prefer not to do the heel strike running, but that's how I did it back then. It's how I naturally went into it. Being on the balls of my feet does feel a little bit more natural for me nowadays, but it took me a while to get used to it. I didn't always feel that way. It would feel like I was trying to run on my tippy toes. By the way, free fitness routine on our website, adjustable to almost any fitness level, so you can get started today. And actually, we have recently completely rebuilt our app to walk you through that. If you prefer a mobile app version, check it out. It can tell you what to do, when to rest, and when to move on. And my camera monitor that I used to monitor myself while I'm filming just went out. So, we're going to wing it. But the next one is that I lost quite a bit of weight. Now, I did these challenges, so to speak, a little while ago. I did a lot of different interesting training styles before I worked up to what I do now. But running a 5K every day or even just running every day, I would usually lose quite a bit of weight doing this, which obviously you can look up on average how many calories running a 5K burns, but it's fairly substantial, especially if you do it day after day. So, I lost a bunch of weight, sometimes 10, 20 lbs when I didn't have that much to lose. So, if I were to do it again, I would eat more. By the way, I know that sounds really light, like concerningly light to some people. I'm not saying you're wrong to be concerned, but the males in my family around that age, looking at photos of them and talking to them, they all kind of weighed on the lighter side. And in fact, I'm probably significantly heavier later on and definitely now because I'm one of the few who intentionally eat more. If I don't stay focused on trying to maintain or gain weight, I often just lose weight. So, just kind of how I am. All right, the lights are kind of bright, but at least you can see me. I have no idea how this looks cuz I can't see my monitor. But after all of that, I want to talk about how much my time improved. So, everyone kind of lock in your answers. You don't have to comment, but just keep it in your mind. I started at around 25 minutes to 27 minutes for a 5K time. And let me think about how I'm going to phrase this because if that's your time and you're improving and you want to get better, that's great. But as someone who was competitive and I was wrestling at a time and there were other people that were in cross country, their times were a lot faster. I wanted to improve that time. Again, if that's you and you've worked up to that or you're happy with that or you want to get better, that's fine. This is just my journey. I wanted to improve that. And after training every day, just about I think I took some weekends off for 3 months. My time was about 27 minutes to 29 minutes. And I was just boggled because you got to think early on, think about all the mistakes I was make, basic training mistakes I was making that I was talking about throughout this video, not working up into something, not warming up for something that's repetitive impact over and over again. At the time, I was just thinking, well, if I keep trying, I will get better at something, which in general, that's not a terrible principle, but as we understand it more, we're like, oh, so there's a limiting factor here. Oh, if work on this, then we can get better a lot faster. we can be more strategic with it. So, I was kind of like confused. I was like, why? Maybe I'm just not good at running. I was like in my mind, I was making up all kinds of what a lot of later generations now call cope. I think I was like, maybe I'm dense. Maybe it's not built for running. And yeah, later on I took a one of those DNA tests and I do seem to have more type 2 muscle fibers than type one. But that wasn't the reason why because a few years later after I just hadn't practiced. I had stopped for years and we were doing a 5K charity run that I was helping organize. I was like, "Well, I'll run in that cuz I haven't run one in a while." And at the time, I was playing music and I was doing some other exercise. And I don't claim to be a great musician, but I did learn how to breathe a little bit more. So, some of you who run regularly may be knowing where I'm going with this. And all I did was just learn to take deep breaths, breathe evenly, and try to maintain somewhat steady breathing as I was running. Of course, it would increase and decrease as needed. And my time having not practiced for years at the time was 22, right? And I'm definitely more athletic and fit now. So interesting, right? So I had improved quite a bit, way more. That was my that was actually my personal record, I think. Um, no, again, no warm-up, just trying again after having not run in a while. So why was that? And thinking back back when I was practicing all the time, I was not always breathing evenly. I just wasn't breathing properly sometimes and that was throwing me off quite a bit. When I was actually training, sure, I might have been improving the endurance of my body overall, definitely my legs, and I might have improved my time and ability a little bit, but a huge bottleneck was how I was breathing. just monitoring that I managed to increase my time substantially, way more just through one little shift in technique. This is why it sometimes matters. So, I encourage people to get started. Get started. Don't overthink it. That's great. But as you go, you might find, oh, if I start doing this, then I can change it. And that's where the leaps usually come in. When you go like, oh, I've been stuck here for a while. Oh, wow. I'm suddenly much better. It's because you unlock something. So, working hard is good. Being consistent is good. But part of the consistency is searching for a better way sometimes. So that's what I have for now. I haven't tried my 5K in a while. If I had to guess, even though I'm like 50 lbs heavier now than I was back then, so it should theoretically be harder. I could probably get a sub 20 minute 5K. Again, I don't really jog anymore. It's just not really my thing and not how I choose to do cardio. I do like sprints and hill sprints, but if you like jogging, that's awesome. I just want to share the story in case it was interesting to anybody. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend.