 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 검찰 you can currently get stronger with just your body and some gravity, which seems pretty cool. That if you have the right knowledge, you can find the progressions that will work for you and use those to get stronger until you can move on to harder variations. We do have an app to show you how to do that and walk you through those progressions. And unfortunately, currently has a large free version. But I tell you, when we find out how to sell gravity, I will buy a fancy car. Which reminds me that I know it's a thing for YouTubers to buy Lamborghinis and sports cars partially because they want to flex and the social pressure. But I actually have the reverse social pressure. Just about everyone I know in real life and online would make fun of me if I got a sports car. First of all, if you've ever seen my driveway, it is kind of out in the country and it would lose like tens of thousands of dollars worth of value just going down the driveway because it would go and it would just destroy the underside. So instead, what I'll do is buy a Lamborghini and give it to the needy. That is what they need. Confirmed. So gravity can make it stronger. But believe it or not, it also comes with some pretty severe downsides. Like they make it really hard to cancel the subscription. Basically have to go to space. And even then, gravity is working on you. Just lower amounts. And unfortunately, like many other performance enhancing laws of nature, it is possible to take too much gravity. And some people have done that and they sadly lost all their gains. So use gravity responsibly. So happy April 1st to everyone who is watching. That is the day that I'm filming this video. And I kind of use this day once a year to film a random nonsense video. Though I also do that on other days. But I genuinely do appreciate gravity for allowing us to do a lot of cool stuff with just our bodies and gravity. I know it sounds like a marketing slogan, but I like that we have the tools to get stronger and more fit attached to us. Like if we know what to do and how to train, we can get stronger with the things we have. And because of that, I rate gravity a solid 9 out of 10 Hamptons. And when we figure out premium gravity for a small monthly fee, that can be 10 out of 10. Have a beautiful day.