My wife was having some elbow issues. And here's a routine that helped her. And you can start with just a horizontal bar. First, we can find a way to extend, which you can do through isometrics by taking a step back and going up and down like this until you find a spot that you want to work. And you're trying to press down, but your hands are stopped by the bar. And you just press for 30, 45 seconds. You don't have to press that hard. And you can back off a bit if you feel some pain. Just find a spot and you can go about half as hard as you can. And after 45 seconds, you can rest. But she goes right into trying to flex the elbow. But this isn't locked down. So instead, I just stand on mine to hold it down. And once again, she had to kind of search for the spot. It might be a little bit higher like so. And she's like, "Ah, that's the angle that I want to work." And once again, it's like 45 seconds of trying to find and stay in that sweet spot. If it feels too gentle, you can try going a little bit harder. But if it starts to ache, I tend to back off a bit. But after I find that angle, I try to lift a little bit, but then hold it rather than trying to lift it like this the entire time. Muscles kind of relax into the spot. It's kind of hard to explain without feeling it. And after she's done, she can rest a bit. And then she goes into turning out like so. This one is interesting because you might intuitively want to turn out with your arms bent like this, but you may get the feeling if you straighten your arms a little bit while you're still turning out. Just find a good spot and try to hold for 45 seconds as before. It may help to find a spot where you can really lock your thumb underneath. Otherwise, you may be limited in how much you can twist. And now, if you're done with that, you can rest a bit. And then lastly, we'll do one where we turn our palms down. You can grip underhand like last time, but you don't need to stand on it. And once again, if you extend a bit, you may better feel that spot that you want to work. And then you can just hit that for 45 seconds. Once again, staying out of pain. Try to stay in that spot and don't just point at the camera like I do. And then after you're done, you can rest. And then repeat this two or three times. And it's pretty gentle, but it's helped me too. Have a beautiful bow.