 Hey, if you are someone you know, h avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons avons And once you hear it, it might sound pretty intuitive. There are actually at least two requirements for getting fit. Both of them make sense once they're said out loud, but usually only one is done or at least taken seriously. The other one goes unspoken a lot. First, I'll discuss what they are and why they matter. And then I'll discuss how you can use them to benefit. The two things are actually doing the exercises, adjusting your meals, getting rest and living your life in a way that spurs change. And second is actually learning about the exercises and nutrition and lifestyle changes, what to do and why. Now you might think, hang on, only the first one is required, right? After all, if you do everything you need, let's say you just do pushups a few times a week and get enough food, get enough protein, get enough rest. Wouldn't you make the same progress regardless of how well you understood what's going on? Well, theoretically, yes. But how would you know what to do if you didn't already know it? You usually have to learn about the thing to do the thing. So it may take some of our knowledge for granted. And here's why that's important. For example, even knowing about pushups and the concept of sets and reps and rest is already important fitness knowledge. It's unlikely you go through those same motions without knowing what they were and approximately what they do. It's like trying to get to a place you've never been before without a map. You can do it, but it's probably more likely with a map. Another imperfect comparison might be you trying to learn an instrument without learning anything about music like pitch, tempo or harmony. You could make some progress just like you could with your fitness routine, but you could probably progress faster if you understood what's happening and what you need to work on. Except with skills like music, art or even cooking, we have a near instant feedback loop. Even if we don't know much about music, art or cooking, we can usually tell if we're making progress. If you're learning a simple song, you couldn't play it before and now you can, you've made progress. But with fitness, we know that things take time. We encourage people to have patience. This is usually a wonderful thing because great results can take a long time to achieve. Partially why there's the whole thing about embracing a journey and not just a destination. However, because we have to wait longer to see fitness results, we can also end up doing the same thing for a long time, even if we're not making a lot of progress. This can eventually be very demotivating and it's the reason why a lot of people quit a few weeks in. And we may not even know if we're making progress slower than we should or if this is just part of the process that everyone goes through. All that involves learning about it. And that's the thing. Fitness is often approached as an action, something we do. However, fitness is also a skill, something we learn and do. Learning can come from self-learning or you can have someone like a trainer coach you through it. Either way, the good news is you don't really need to learn or even do that much to get massive results. Small changes in your daily routine can have a huge impact over time. Here are three ways this can help you. Both doing and learning can help motivate each other. And here's what I mean. Our body basically has the amazing ability to react and adapt to the stimulus we give it. If we go from not exercising at all to doing 25 push-ups a day, our body will begin to adapt to that over a few weeks. Maybe months, depending on how you're doing them. This adaptation might give you bigger muscles, maybe slightly lower body fat, maybe more endurance. Which is great, but after we've adapted to our new routine of doing 25 push-ups a day, our body won't have any reason to keep changing. It's already adapted. And once again, this is around the time where people give up because they stop seeing progress. But thankfully, there's an easy solution. To continue making progress, we can simply increase or change the stimulus. For example, we can try to do 30 push-ups a day instead. Or do a harder push-up variation. Or we can simply add weight. These are all examples of progressive overload. On a side note, I get asked to evaluate a lot of home workout routines and home workout apps. And this is often what they're missing. The workouts are fine, but they need to be progressive. Meaning the workouts need to get harder or change in some way as you become more fit and more able. At the same time, just learning about push-ups isn't very exciting. As you watch this video, imagine if you could never work out or never intend to work out. Never intend to do push-ups. The video might be less interesting to you. It literally isn't relevant to what you're doing. But another side note, I know a lot of you aren't that interested in fitness and you just watch these videos to chill or relax. That's awesome and I still love you all. The information is here if and when you ever want to exercise. But until then, thanks for being here. However, knowing that you can watch this, try some of the techniques I'll mention and hopefully improve your workout probably makes it more interesting to watch. Because it's something you can do. It might not be this video, but every once in a while you'll watch or read something and go, Wow, that's cool. That makes sense. I'm going to try that. So doing can motivate you to learn and learning can motivate you to do. This is especially important in fitness because outside of fitness, just to use a non-fitness example, imagine getting coached in pool by Efren Reyes, one of the greatest pool players of all time in my opinion and probably other opinions. But it may not be that interesting if you don't play pool. And most people only play pool occasionally and very casually, if at all. They're not trying to improve as pool players or work on their stroke or aim or technique. So they probably don't care if they're motivated to practice or learn, which is totally fine because not everyone needs to play pool. But just about everyone needs some level of fitness. So if you practice and learn anything, consider practicing and learning fitness. You'll also make faster progress if you know more. Of course. In fact, depending on your current routine and current knowledge, you might make much faster progress and save years of effort just by knowing more. If we think of fitness as a skill, then it's important to recognize that our progress is at least somewhat limited by our knowledge and experience. Also things like genetics and health. Sure. But a lot of people believe they're not putting in enough effort and time when they really could get better results just by putting the same amount into something else. Here's something to consider. Let's say you're new to fitness and you want to be a world-class natural bodybuilder. You've been working out consistently for a while, but you haven't made that much progress yet. You might not actually be putting in less effort than a world-class bodybuilder, even if you don't look like one yet. It's very possible you're going to the gym for the same hours and working equally hard, putting in the same amount of time and effort. This actually isn't super hard compared to what you're trying to achieve. And to be clear, that effort is very respectable. But many people can go to a gym, work equally hard, yet have wildly different results. And sure, again, you can say some of the difference is genetics and even time spent. You'll look different a year in versus five years in. Of course. However, a world-class bodybuilder or world-class athlete will likely know more about optimal training, even if it's personalized, which is self-knowledge. So their workouts are more effective and more efficient. Same effort, same time, very different results. And a key difference would be knowledge and the practice of constantly trying to learn. And that comparison might surprise some people, but it really isn't that controversial, by the way. Both beginners and world-class athletes will bring in coaches and teachers to help them tweak something about their routine, even small things. Alongside regular practice, this is how they improve. And the difference can be huge, by the way. Even among regular gym goers, a lot of people regularly work out, but don't make that much progress year to year. But small changes to their routine can make big differences. Sometimes it's something they read, or a more experienced friend says, Hey, you might not be eating enough, and that's why you're not growing. And they go, Oh. Almost everyone I know in fitness, by the way, has had that experience at some point. So if you feel stupid, don't. Because the, Oh, why didn't I think of that? It seems to be a fairly universal experience. But once again, you don't need anywhere near world-class upper echelon knowledge if you just want to get healthy, fit, and strong. Learning the fundamentals will take you 90 plus percent of the way there, and it doesn't take long to learn them. And finally, if you try to both learn and do, you may find that you also want to discuss. You might have questions, or you want to share your progress with other people. And you might even start a fitness YouTube channel that's only sometimes about fitness. Nah, that'd be silly, right? But maybe you can exchange different ideas with other people and help each other. A group of people doing this would be considered a fitness community, and they could help motivate you and help you make more progress. You might feel like you're not alone in your journey, and you're working with other people, which is great. But you don't have to do this. It's not for everyone, and if it sounds embarrassing to you to talk with other people about your fitness, you don't have to. Or you can just talk with a few trusted friends, either online or in person. It can be very passionate or super casual. Either way, having the sense of community that you might get from learning and doing is just another option you have to help you along your journey, if you want it. So, how do we apply all of this? More good news, you're probably already doing this. If you're watching this, you may already occasionally watch fitness videos. Or you're new here because someone sent you this video. Hello, thanks for watching. If you want, you can just lean slightly into that as a key aspect of your fitness. You can make time to learn about fitness, sets and reps, why you want to do compounds or isolation exercises, what exercises can grow your shoulders, whatever you like. You can do this in a structured way, like have a few videos or articles you queue up and read in between sets, adding up to like 10 or 15 minutes a day. Or you can be more casual with them. Just follow some fitness channels and occasionally watch videos when they pop up. Usually a mixture of those can work well. The key is to try to find stuff related to whatever you're most interested in or working on. This helps make the information contextual to your goals so you can apply it and remember it. Before I was really into fitness, I learned and forgot what a deltoid was like three times until I started training my deltoids. They're the shoulder muscles, by the way. Because suddenly knowing about my deltoids was a lot more relevant to what I was doing, so I cared more and remembered longer. Thank you so much for watching. I hope this video can help you. If you want a free fitness routine that is progressive, we have one on our website. One of my new year's plans is to make upgrades and improvements to it. If you want a book or ebook version of it, we have that. Or a card version if you want the illustrated cards. There's a mobile app in beta that we're releasing a new and much better version of soon. Excited about that. And support from certified personal trainers if you need help. Have a wonderful, beautiful year, my friend. I'm a bit hoarse today, sorry. But I am filming in my favorite coffee shop.