

=== FILE: 11 Fitness Beliefs That Secretly Keep You Stuck [DiqmOMCrqQw].txt ===

 The fact is that many of us still have limiting beliefs that hold us back from reaching our full potential, and unfortunately stop a lot of beginners from even getting started. And without them, we'd be able to get to where we want a lot faster. So it's in our best interest to find the ones that apply to us and fix them if possible, and that's why I made this video for you or a friend. The first is that fitness isn't worth it, but wait, this is sometimes true, and here's what I mean. Let's say I were to ask you for $10, and in return, I would give you $100. Nothing else. Would you take this deal? And real quick, just actually answer in your head, because this will help. Because some of you will say, no, that sounds like a scam, and others will say, yeah, I'll do that. I'll make $90 for free, basically. So who is right about that? And my answer might not be what you think, and this is why I put it first. Because if you think of your life as full of different decisions and choices and trade-offs you can make, and the reality is that some of them are scams. Some of them are not worth it or will actively harm you. But others are good decisions and good deals that you wish you made long ago. Similarly, there are some beliefs that you have that are true and will stop you from getting a scam. If you were to know this is a scam and not to take it, and others, after you learn about it, if you were to learn this wasn't a scam, you're like, man, I wish I knew about this a while ago. You ever watch a TV show or start a new habit, and you're like, man, I wish I did this five or ten years ago. Life and fitness is full of things like that. And when I started realizing this and realizing the faster I identified these beliefs, the better my life would get, I started challenging more of my own beliefs to identify which ones were right and which ones were opportunities. So fitness is not one decision, but actually multiple decisions. There is a cost to working out, but it's almost always very worth it for you. But there are some decisions that might help you a little bit, like buying supplements, for example, where you might not think that it's quite as worth it and you might think it's too expensive and that's okay. This is not all or nothing. The next is about not having enough time to work out. And this one's a little bit tricky because the internet is full of fitness trainers saying that, oh, you can get a good workout in 40 minutes, 30 minutes, 20 minutes. I would even say that you can get enough sets to trigger muscle growth and get stronger in like 10 minutes. And you're like, well, that's not optimal. I'd be like, well, is it more optimal to do nothing? But there's kind of this idea of like, there are no excuses, you have enough time. But I feel like a lot of people beginning will feel like that's unrealistic. They're like, well, you can do it in 10 minutes. I had to drive to the gym. I had to get dressed. I have all these things. So the reality that I found is like, yes, fitness can take a short amount of time after you get used to it. But if you're feeling like you're taking a lot more time than other people, that's okay. You're not abnormal in that sense. Because the truth is that what you're feeling is probably right. It probably does take you more time when you're starting out to work out than other people who are more experienced. And this is because you're actually doing two different things right now. You're doing the actual workout and you're also learning about working out. So if you go to the gym, you're like trying different machines and learning the technique. And a lot of them aren't even really good sets. You just take several sets to even figure out like, oh, that's how that's how it works. Don't worry, a lot of people are on the same boat there. But because you're doing those things, it will take more time at first. But after you get used to it, if you're like, man, that feels great, but I just can't afford all those hours every week. I have too much stuff going on. Your workouts can become more efficient as you get more experienced, meaning they can take less time. If you want, you might decide you love it and you will make more time for it. But I just want to be real with you because there is an upfront cost to learning to work out. It might take a little time for you to feel, oh, this is how this movement should feel. And this is what it feels like when I'm working on muscle near failure. But over time, you dial this in and when you need to be more efficient, like I need to be in and out in 30 minutes, you can do that. If you're working out at home, you can be in and out in like 10, 15 minutes, depending on what you want to do. But someone brought up a very good point that when people say not enough time, what they actually mean sometimes is not enough energy or not enough energized time. And that's a very legitimate thing that a lot of people can relate to. So it's not just an excuse to bring out the old coffee cup, although it is nice because you might have heard that, oh no, workouts can actually energize you. You'll have more energy after working out. But then you try it and you're like, man, I don't know if that's a limiting belief because I don't feel that someone just went for a jog and they feel great. I feel terrible. I feel exhausted for the rest of the day. So that is true. That can be true. There's not necessarily anything wrong with you, but two different things to that. One is you can adjust to that. So yes, the first time you work out, especially if you're new to something or you go a little bit too hard, you can feel extra sore and extra exhausted. That is normal and you may want to ease yourself in. And your body will also adjust to that over a few weeks or a few months to the point where you won't feel nearly as sore and because you're used to it, you might feel energized from doing that. You might feel weird when you don't work out. And the second part is that you might just be doing the exhausting workouts. There are some exercises that are just basically more taxing on us like hill sprints, very fast hill sprints, deadlifts, heavy squats. And if you've done any of those, you might be like, yeah, they're training on you. Now you might feel more alive or more energized afterwards, but you spent energy doing those. And when you're really pushing yourself, they can feel draining. And I like all those exercises that I just mentioned, but you don't have to do them for fitness, especially starting out. So if you just want to get into it, you can go for a walk. You can do some pushups or wall pushups on a break. You can do some body weight squats. And afterwards, after you've eased yourself in, you're like, man, I do feel good because the body is designed to move. You want to move. The synovial fluid in our joints largely circulates when we move. So it can be good for us. And after you get started into that and you get used to moving and your body might want to crave a little bit more, then you can ease yourself into some heavier weighted exercises and some exercises where you really push yourself on days where you feel like it. And next is not having enough money. I feel like I've used money as a prop in this video more than I have usually, but I saw some and was like, I will show the YouTube this money. Gravity is free. So you can do body weight exercise at home. You can do pushups, pull-ups, squats, leg raises, bridges, and twists. And if those are too easy or too hard for you, you have progressions to adjust the difficulty of those exercises. You can use our routine or you can look up others on the internet. There should be plenty to get you started and you can try to eat a balanced diet and get plenty of rest. But there's a follow-up to this. So some people don't mention, but it's okay where people say, why don't I want to do that? I want to use the optimal training technology that we have. I want to go to a gym. And if you can afford gym or you have some dumbbells or a friend's gym that you can use safely, by all means do that. I actually like weights. So I, despite being called hybrid calisthenics, I use weights as props and exercises. All the time in my videos. But a lot of people who are getting into fitness, it's unlikely they are beyond body weight, even if they sometimes think so. If you can do plenty of push-ups, you can do plenty of pull-ups, plenty of squats, and you've worked up perhaps to some harder variations of those, like one arm pull-ups, one arm push-ups, one leg squats. Then yeah, feel free to explore some weights, but until then, there's plenty of stuff that you can do with body weight. Again, weights are great for training specific movement patterns. It's just changing the weight so you don't have to change progressions. But what you really need to progressively overload, make progress, is you just need increasing resistance. And that can be weights. Weights can be great for that, but it can also be changing leverage, changing angles, and more. That's the idea of progressive calisthenics and doing different progressions. And again, use what you have. Use what you like. If you have access to a gym and you want to do gym exercises, please do. A lot of people can get great results from that. But if you want to get fit and you're not currently working out, and we mentioned in the first part, that fitness is worth it. So the vast majority of people, and you're not doing anything now, then you might as well do some body weight exercise. You could argue that it's not optimal, but serious question is doing nothing more optimal. Possibly not. We have a free fitness routine on our website if you want to check it out. And an app version if you want to be guided through each workout day by day, when to rest, when to move on, based on your feedback. But I want to show you this new feature we're doing where I'm putting in different workouts that people can try and you can add a custom one. That's how I ended up with this masterpiece. And we're adding the ability to add pretty much any workout. So you can put any workout in here and it'll walk you through it. And I was thinking about adding a feature for people to share with others. Like you get a code or a link or something, you can get their workouts. That way, the more experienced of you can create a workout for someone and share it and they can get in the app. So it doesn't have to be the one I use. It can be any workout that you're doing, like gymnastics, rock climbing, even jogging. And I think it's cool, but I am different. So let me know if you're interested in that, because I would love to get the community making workouts and sharing with them with each other. And the next is that you need to be sore in order to make progress. So I've mentioned this before and it's interesting. Some people just don't believe me, but you don't need to be sore in order to make progress. If you want to get very, very, very sore, find an unstable movement. Do it at a long muscle length where your muscles are stretched out and just kind of shake there on a movement that you're not familiar with. And you'll probably be very sore the next day. You know what also can make you very sore? Jogging a long, long distance if you're not used to it. If you just decide to try to run a marathon despite no training, you'll be very sore the next day. And yet you probably won't grow that much muscle from running that marathon. In fact, you might lose some muscle. And as we get more fit and we get used to a new workout and the new movements, it's quite normal for us to not feel soreness. And this is actually good for us. We don't need to chase soreness. In fact, you might feel barely sore. You might feel your muscle worked, but not necessarily sore. And this can be good because it allows you to push more, do more reps and lift more weight during those workouts. It can be a good thing. You don't have to believe me. You can look this up. Soreness can indicate muscle damage, but contrary to popular belief, muscle damage isn't the primary driver of muscle growth and progress. That's generally thought to be mechanical tension nowadays. And if you're like, I don't know what that means, then you can just push yourself during each workout. You can push yourself during each set. And if you continue to make progress, then things are okay. Don't worry if you're not too sore. And another one is no pain, no gain. And if you feel like you like that, then you can rephrase it to no effort, no gain. Or you can even say no discomfort, no gain. Because the feeling of pushing your muscles to their limit and triggering growth and progress can feel like exertion. Right? You feel the muscle burning and like, ah, it can feel good, but not necessarily painful in the way of an injury. Those are two distinct but related sensations. And I think it can be good to learn which is which. I did have a video on how to do that. Basically, you can hold a weight for a prolonged period of time. And you're like, oh, you feel the muscle burning. That can be exertion. But you feel sharp stabbing pain. You don't need that for growth. And in fact, actual injury can hold you back. It stops you from making progress. So lots of pain, less gain. So here's an interesting one that I'll phrase as a question. Do you need to work out exercise to lose weight? And the answer, I believe, is no. It's actually quite clearly no. You don't need to work out to lose weight. And you actually don't need to work out to gain weight. You can do that largely through adjusting what you eat and drink. Now, of course, I still think you should work out. And if you want to build muscle, then you do need to work out. But purely losing weight, you can do with adjusting what you eat alone. Exercise can help. And it's good for you. And I have a whole channel about that. But the reason this is important is because I believe adjusting your diet, as in what you regularly eat, is how you can lose weight. If you don't want to lose weight, that's OK. Cool. You know, with your life, you can do whatever you like. I'm happy for you. But this is a big belief that some people have that isn't even limiting. It's almost like the opposite. But they get started doing push-ups and pull-ups and like, I'm not losing weight. And they feel discouraged by that. They're getting better at push-ups and pull-ups, which is cool. You're getting stronger. But they're not losing weight. The number isn't going down on the scale. In fact, it might go up a little bit and that can discourage them. It's because you're training to get better at push-ups and pull-ups. Right? And there might be a little bit of inflammation. And you're not gaining fat, probably, especially if it's in a couple of days. That might be a little bit of water retention. So if you have weight-related goals and you're like, I don't know who to trust. You can talk to your doctor about this. You can confirm. But if you have weight-related goals, up or down, you usually have to adjust something about what or how you eat. You don't have to starve yourself and you don't have to overeat. It may take some time to find the right thing for you that can work sustainably long-term. But it is there. You can theoretically exercise, like run or walk, to burn off calories. But that's also assuming you don't eat more to compensate for that extra energy you're using. There's also an idea that even people who are relatively experienced in the gym will sometimes feel. They are working out. They feel great. Then for some reason, either they get sick or they get busy and they have to move and they stop working out for a while. And they get back in the gym and like, man, I lost all my progress. Right? It's all gone. I can't lift nearly as much. The number might be going the wrong way on the scale. Either you gained too much weight or you lost too much weight. It's like, I have to start from zero now. It's very unlikely you have to start from zero, unless you've been gone for like years and years and years and years. And even then, it's different. Muscle that you've built before that you lost will come back much faster, like 10 times faster. I don't know what the exact percentage is. It probably depends on the person and the muscle. But that lost progress you feel is sometimes just you relearning it. You know how if you haven't done something in a while, it might take you a little bit to relearn it, even though it might seem simple, like something as simple as a bench press, it might take you a couple of sessions to be like, ah, okay. So this is how it's supposed to feel. Even if you theoretically know it, your body might have to relearn it. So you can learn to skill a lot faster. Your body will get stronger a lot faster. Also, if you have weight related goals, the number on a scale doesn't always reflect your true progress. So carbs are water heavy as in carbohydrate. So if you're trying to lose weight and then you eat a bowl of pasta, you're like, oh my gosh, I gained three pounds. It is extremely unlikely unless you ate like several pounds of pasta and you gained three pounds of fat in a single day. That's, I don't know if that's possible. If it's possible, it's on the edge if possible. But I know it's easy to feel discouraged. So measure progress over weeks or months, not necessarily days. There's another idea that people will laugh at you. Like people will laugh like, ha ha, look at that person trying to get fit. There are some people out there like that, but on the internet, right? They're leaving comments about this, but you don't have to interact with them. You can exercise in the privacy of your own home. But in the off chance that you go to a gym and some people are laughing at you, most people in fitness who are experienced are actually laughing at them. People who actually work out long term and are trying to teach others have seen many people at your skill level, below, above, of all kinds. And they learned that we want to meet people where they're at. Yes, sometimes we want to encourage them. We want to motivate them. Some people want a little bit of a stricter motivation. I guess some people call it tough love. But if these people don't know you and they're laughing at you, I don't want to deny that those people exist. I think they are in the minority, but I understand they can see much louder. But people who are actually good think like world champion athletes. A lot of them are laughing at those people. Those people are usually considered a joke. And I want the best for them, but I also want them to get better. It's hard to just convince someone on this, but you can ask fitness professionals on this. Laughing at someone who's just trying to get better, just trying to work out is heavily frowned upon in the professional fitness community, in the fitness community in general, because a lot of them started exactly where you are. Those people are usually immature and laughing at others to compensate for their own self fear, self doubt and insecurity. It doesn't always excuse it, but that's sometimes why it's there. And really, most people, for better or for worse, in a good way, are not really thinking about you at all. Most people are focused on themselves. Like even at a higher level, they're thinking about something. Their boss said to them, or their friends said to them. Their spouse said to them, like, what's going on? So they usually focus on themselves rather than others. And the last one I'll touch upon today is the idea that you're somehow different. This thing that works for others will not work for you. And this one's in, I think I said for everyone, these are all interesting ones, but these are sometimes true. This is part of the art form part of fitness, where a tricep extension or a bicep curl, might work well for other people, but you might have some kind of genetic thing. You might have some proportion thing, where it doesn't quite work as well for you. And this is why you can do a modification on an exercise. The art form is selecting and finding that for you. And that's actually quite an enjoyable part. One of the things that you will enjoy and experience as you get more experienced in fitness is learning to find different exercises. And I really like this one. And like, people say, well, it's not, you're like, no, no, no, I like it. I'm going to keep doing it. And the best exercises for you are going to be the ones that you can do sustainably. So if you find something that's theoretically optimal, but you just don't like it for a reason, or it might hurt because you have some prior injury or tightness, then it's not optimal if you're not doing it. So it has to be something that you would like. So there is something that, there is something to that, where you want to find the ones that work for you. But by and large, I mean this in the best possible way, we have a lot more in common than we have different. Our muscle fibers, our bone structure, we have way more in common than we have different. They're made of the same things. And if everyone else seems to like this exercise or this workout plan, and for whatever reason, you want to like it, but it's not working for you, that can be very real. There might be any number of reasons. However, the process of improving and getting more fit can apply to the vast, vast, vast majority of people. I actually cannot think of an example of someone who literally cannot benefit from fitness in some way. So it's a tricky one because there are some things that may not apply to you, and there is an art form in finding that. But I think the important takeaway from that is that there is almost certainly a variation or something else that you can do to improve yourself, workout, feel better, and be awesome. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Build Vice-Like Grip Strength at Home (8 Exercises) [8nMGOZuVjOU].txt ===

 Many of you are stronger than you realize, but you're just held back a bit by your grip strength. You may have heard that a chain is only as strong as its weakest link, and for many people, that's their grip strength. To the point where someone might think they can't do a pull-up or lift their goal weight yet, but they may have the arm strength and the back strength, but because their grip gives out, they can't. Yet. Now, many people realize this, and they want to build a stronger grip, and that's why there's all kinds of grip-training devices on the market, and a lot of them are pretty cool, but you don't necessarily need them, and not everyone wants to buy them. You can build a very strong grip with this body weight and calisthenics. So just using a few items from around the house, I want to show you like five different exercises to strengthen your grip, starting with something that almost everyone can do, and ending with one that I haven't seen anyone do in real life for the full time, but I'm sure some of you can, so let me know. Okay, the first one you can try if you have a railing or low pull-up bar or something sturdy and safe at home, is just a lean hang, where you're not quite hanging off the ground, and most people can do this, and it might feel too easy, but I know some people are just starting off, and I wanted to start with something that was a little bit more accessible. An easy way to progress this, if you have something you can put your feet on, or just a lower bar, is to lean further down. So generally, the lower the bar, the harder it will be, and I deliberately left my ring on, so I can show you that I recommend taking it off. In general, if you have any kind of jewelry, I recommend taking it off when you're working out or in the gym. If you ever want to be traumatized, look up Evulsion Fractures. And if you're wondering what I put my feet on, it was actually the rice bucket that I used for the rice bucket training video. Multiple uses. And the next one you can try is this leg assisted hang. So if you're not quite strong enough to hang without any support, you can use simply your feet and your legs to support. Now you might think, well, this is too easy, don't worry, it will get a little bit more difficult, but something you may want to consider, even if you feel like this is too easy for you, is to try to hang for at least 60 seconds per hold. Try to hold this for 60 seconds. Have a phone or a stopwatch or something so you can keep yourself honest. And you may realize that something that you think feels easy for the first 5, 10, 15 seconds might get a little bit more difficult as you go on. And that's very important for a reason that I'm going to explain, but first I want to show you that if you have a taller bar, not a shorter bar, you can just use something like this. See, this is such a useful bucket. I turned this away. Not sponsored. Any bucket will work. There's free fitness routine on our website if you want to get started working out from home, building up with push-ups, pull-ups, squats and beyond. We have a support board with trainers answering your fitness questions if you need help, and a mobile fitness app that can walk you through these exercises if you just want to get started. And the next one, which is probably the last standard one in the series, is just a regular bar hang. Now you can hang from something a little bit wider like this or like this with a neutral grip. I would just do whatever is easy for you at first because you can always try to make it harder. Now you can do a false grip like this. Sorry, not a false grip, but just not using your thumb. You can do that, but I do recommend having your thumbs under that way you really get used to this because that is important for a lot of grip exercises that you will see. And from here, you also want to build up to at least one minute, 60 seconds. I would say maybe a little bit longer and you might think, well, Hampton, that's endurance. I'm trying to build grip strength. Why would I need that? If you train this for a bit, you'll kind of immediately see why. This is just a hand towel hang and we can start with one arm only, but you'll see that with grip strength. It doesn't matter as much what you can grip for barely one second peak force, but for most exercises that require your grip, usually require you to grip for multiple seconds. So you want some endurance into your strength here. Same thing with these towel hang. I've built up about 60 seconds each side. Now this variation is where a lot of people tend to drop out and they don't do the more difficult ones. If you're wondering why it's important, it's because this engages your palm muscles a bit more in a way that horizontal grip doesn't quite do the same. The reason why it's important to train the thumbs, so boom. For that reason, moving on to a towel grip with both hands will obviously be a little bit more difficult, but there's also a couple of different paths you can take because instead of exploring more towel grip, you could just build up to a 60 second one arm hang, which is fairly difficult and will also work your elbow and a lot of other things are important for your grip. And the reason I say that is because you could have a very strong grip, which is kind of the opposite problem that I mentioned in the beginning. But if you don't have the elbow and the shoulder capacity to make that grip more functional and really express that strength where you can grip something and you aren't like, ah, my shoulder. And that's why training with a one arm hang can be pretty useful for that. And if you're feeling like, ah, if you rotate and fall, then you may want to consider putting an arm or something here to stop yourself from rotating to keep it more of a focus on your grip. And while a minute for that is a good standard, I would say around this point, whichever path you take, it can be around the time that you start lowering the standard to where it's not 60 seconds before you move on, maybe like 30 seconds and you just like make it a little bit more difficult. That might seem a little bit more reachable for some people. And the other path that you can take is to use a towel or a rope if you want to be more professional to explore that kind of vertical grip, which can challenge your palms in a different way. As mentioned in doing it on one side like this is usually a little bit easier, not just because these are easier to grip, but because I've noticed putting your hands together can kind of help them support each other, which is a useful progression. And it's for those reasons that using a double over towel on two separate bar things like this will make it a little bit more difficult. And if you've seen these exercises before, then yeah, I didn't make them up. I first read about these like a decade ago. They've probably been around for maybe hundreds of years if you consider rope climbing. I've made videos about these before, but I want to go more in depth in a longer video like this. And you can, for all of these other progressions, you can assist a little bit with your legs if you want something in between. If you're like, yeah, I can do this one, but I can't quite do this for very long. I would just hang on and be like, oh, starting to slip. Maybe a little bit before you start to slip and then use a little bit of assistance so you can hang a little bit longer. For all these progressions, you might feel effort, but you shouldn't feel any finger pain in my opinion. And that happens especially for these vertical ones because it's easier for us to slip and be like, ah, man, it shouldn't hurt. If it hurts, I recommend backing off and using an easy progression. You can still build solid strength and important grip strength endurance without hurting your fingers. They're very nice, so we got to try to take care of them. And before we get to the final progression in this grip series, I want to talk about a question some people would have because I was reviewing the footage and I think some people might wonder this. And that is, Hampton, you've talked about grip strength, but we've so far only talked about isometric holding static strength. We're holding on to the bar, the towel, or the rope. What about movement? Right? So we talked about push-up strength. We are moving with the push-up. Setups are moving. Squats are moving. Why are we not training grip by moving? And I would say that's an excellent question, but there's two sides I would answer to that. One is we get better at what we specifically train. So if we want to train to use our grip to hold on to a heavy bar, hold on to a pull-up bar as we're doing weighted pull-ups or pull-ups, then we will tend to get better at that. If we train for that, we train by holding, we'll get better at holding. And second, I have noticed that while you can use crush grippers, and I like these and other equipment to build good crushing strength, as the numbers go up, our fingers tend to hurt a little bit as to do that. And it's not necessarily a good kind of pain that makes us stronger. This kind of pain might make us weaker. Now, that said, can you build up? Quite possibly. Quite possibly. You might be able to build up without pain. There might be someone, there probably is someone out there that can do hundreds of pounds of incredible, mind-blowing amount. But even with that, my hesitation and why I haven't personally gone after the big numbers on crush grip, even though I really like grip, is because you will always be able to hold more than you can lift. Right? So I've made a video about this. In this case, you should be able to hold more than you can crush, because once you can go beyond just holding something, you will be able to move. So that number should always be higher. So if you want to build good grip strength and you usually use your grip by holding onto things, then holding onto things might be the primary way that you want to train. That said, by all means, you can supplement with some crush grippers or some kind of moving grip exercise. That might be good for your forearms. There's like the open ones you can do. I've used them too. They can be nice. Okay, I'm going to use a rope for this last one because I got the rope. So I'm going to use it. I'm going to use it in the video. And the thing that I haven't seen anyone do in real life for 60 seconds is just a one-arm towel or rope hang. Unassisted, because I am assisting here. In fact, I haven't seen anyone do it for like 30 seconds. And usually I don't really train this. On a good day, I might be able to get a few solid seconds. If I weren't taken more seriously, I'd bring in Mr. Buckhead. Oh, and watch out for rope burn if you try these. So if you're not sure if you can do some of these progressions, start gentle, then slowly work your way up. But hey, are any of those later progressions really needed? Not really, I would say. It's usually a little bit more than you need. And especially if you just want to do pull-ups and lift weights, you can start adding weight to a two-arm hang like this or even a one-arm hang with a dumbbell. And that will be the majority of what many of you will need as far as grip strength goes. And hey, if you want the grip strength to do heavy weighted pull-ups or to lift heavy weight on a deadlift or something, then yes, you'll probably get better at what you specifically train. So you might want to spend some time specifically training that or even use some straps for grip assistance. Many of you already know, but I'm not against weights at all. I just think it's cool that we have the tools often embedded within ourselves to get fit and strong from home with minimal equipment sometimes, which is our body weight and gravity. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Build a Strong Core Without Endless Reps [XsoE0etubnY].txt ===

 Core strength is very important to develop in fitness, but unfortunately, there are a few key misunderstandings that hold some people back, so I want to share three key points that I think will really help you once you understand. And the good news is that after you understand them, then core strength will just pretty much never be an issue for you again. And then you can just go on to do a lot of cool stuff and, you know, just be awesome. And the last point is something I learned in my first year of fitness, but it's not really something I hear discussed that much. The first is that we tend to train our core as if it were just our abs, when there's quite a bit more to it than that, and yet a lot of us still default to front-facing things, like leg raises and ups and even crunches, because it can help us feel the burn here. And this breaks down into two separate but related issues, and the first is actually good news, which is our core is designed to work together. So whatever core exercise you're doing is probably still training your core, and it's very important for it to stabilize so we can move like this and still stay rigid as needed. And we want our core to be strong enough to protect us and stabilize us through a variety of different movement, whether we are lifting ourselves or lifting something else. And this means that we don't usually have to isolate our core training unless we're trying to body build or have a very specific need. And your core has the potential to be very strong. It's designed to be very strong because it needs to maintain an up-tension to protect and support one of the most important parts of our bodies, which is our biceps, of course, right? Very important. No, our spine, right? It's essential to many parts of life, and that's why our core is designed to protect it. So we core, no fun, but a strong core not only can make you better at athletic movement and exercise, but can also help protect your life and quality of living. By the way, that bicep kiss, I once did that in public accidentally. I had this thing where I lean over to my wife sometimes when we're eating in a restaurant and I'll kiss her and I lean over and I didn't realize that she had a long sleeve on. So I just kissed the only bare skin that I saw, which was my own bicep. So I was like, I love you. And she was like, did you just kiss your own bicep? In my mind, I didn't register that it was weird. I was like, yeah, but like in my mind, it was actually yours, but I didn't want to kiss your sleeves. So I just kissed, nevermind. And the second issue is that a lot of us are chasing the burn when we're doing core exercises, when that's not really what will advance us. I don't know if you could see me, but I decided I wanted to do some leg raises, but I have this rock here. If I were to ask you about this rock, how many times do you think you could curl this rock? Well, it'd probably be hundreds, right? For some of you, it could be thousands. It's basically just a few pounds, almost no weight, and you could do a lot of it. But you would notice, maybe not even 100 reps in, that you would feel the burn. And that is the potential issue with a lot of core exercises. We pursue things like a plank or sit-ups and crunches, which I am not saying are necessarily bad exercises, especially if that's the level you're at that you need to get stronger to build up. But after you can do hundreds of them, man, if I were to tell you to strengthen any other part of your body and you picked a weight that you could do hundreds of, do you think that would be the best way to get strong? And a lot of people would say, no, not necessarily, yet with our core, we tend to think differently. I know from experience that this can be a small point of contention for some people, because they're like, well, I like doing this, so I don't want to stop doing it. I get it. If you want to do it, and whatever you're doing is working as usual, please keep doing it. What I would say instead is perhaps, if you want to strengthen your core and you think it's an issue, then try some more difficult exercises. They could be leg raises. We have a progression list on our website and a free online fitness routine and an app that can walk you through that if you want, or it can just be like a leg raise hold like this, if you don't want to move, which is part of the next point. And to be clear, you don't have to do things like flags and elbow levers. They are things that are used in calisthenics. But they take a little bit more time to learn to do, to have the technique to do, compared to some other exercises. So if all you care about is this core strength, there are simpler ways to do that. And you don't need something super difficult. Once again, your core is designed to protect your spine and protect you in general. So if you're working too close to your max ability, you might get closer to the risk of injury, which is not good. But after you can do like, say 20 reps of something, you may want to consider moving on to a slightly harder variation. And the third thing is that while there is a focus on movement in core exercises like sit ups and crunches, one of the most important functions of the core muscles is to resist movement when we pick things up and down, for example. And this breaks up into two slightly smaller points and a bonus at the end. And the first is that you're already doing this, probably if you're training your core, as in you're training your core somewhat with isometrics, even with things like sit ups and leg raises, if you put your hand on your belly, you will feel a little bit of movement, but it's not really that much movement compared to how much your abs are capable of, for example. If you try to touch your sternum to your pubic bone, you realize that, wow, you're suddenly moving a lot more. And even during a sit up, the last part is usually done with hip flexors, for example. Now, if you do want to train your core muscles through some movement and some range of motion, then you can, there are some exercises for that, probably beyond the scope of this particular video. I don't know how much of it I will cover, but I will say for you to try to train relatively gently at first, especially if you're new to this, because once again, our core is responsible for defending a very important part of our body, our spine, our lower back. It's required for a lot of stuff, so be careful, start super gently. And if in doubt, you probably don't have to do this. While core training is important, there are some ways I would argue it is overrated, which I know sounds like very provocative, but I'll kind of explain it at the end. The first I will mention the good news, which is that you probably are already training this somewhat. You're already training to resist movement somewhat if you have a workout routine, if you're regularly lifting some moderately heavy things within your ability, of course, if you're doing side planks, or if you're doing one arm carries like this, that is the benefit of only having one kettlebell. I didn't buy the other one, but I'm going, ah, one arm carry, your resisting movement a little bit by holding it up like this. And of course, you have to sit ups, the leg raises, the L sits maybe, and from that, you're basically getting the front, the sides, and the back. So you might already be doing this, which can be really good. And I want to spend a little bit of extra time emphasizing why this is important, because it might almost feel boring. You might feel like, man, maybe I should do something else. Maybe I should train it through movement. And there is a tendency among some people, some people have the opposite, but for some people to think isometrics or not moving is lesser. Like if you train them to hold this, rather than increasing the weight, they might be like, well, no, I want to try moving with it, which is not always bad, but I can see how it's not very motivating to train to resist movement, which again, you're already doing with your workouts. Just keep and continue that. But if this were like 10 times the weight, and it was 500 pounds, it'd be okay. Right? It's like, wow, he's standing there with 500 pounds. That's nice. But it wouldn't be nearly as impressive as if someone dead lifted 500 pounds, especially with one arm, right? But it is important because a lot of people injure themselves from their inability to resist movement. So if you're doing an exercise, or you get into an accident, hopefully you don't, a lot of the accidents that may happen come from your inability, or I should say less ability than you need to protect yourself in that moment. Like if you're trying to, if you need to hold something and it suddenly moves or someone jumps on it, and you go, ah! You know, that sudden force where the load exceeds your capacity, that's when injury happens. So learning to brace yourself, super important. But the good news is that you can get strong with that pretty fast. So if you think of your range of motion as, this is your body, you can train this, you can train this, you can go forward, you can go back. If you're only training this, you can really specialize in that, and you can increase your ability to hold that weight and resist motion pretty quickly. Isometrics is really good for that, and that leads me into my last bonus point here. And that is that beyond a certain point, you may not need to take core training as seriously as you once did. It is sometimes a little bit overstated, and here's why I think that is. Now when you're starting off especially, sometimes your ability to brace yourself with your core is a weak point sometimes. So with pushups, for example, with a lot of people, they can either start with easier variations, or if they start on the ground, you notice some beginners, they have their abs sag a little bit, and that's why some people say, well supplement a little bit with planks, and then they're like, wow, I can do a lot more pull-ups. Or sorry, push-ups, but pull-ups too, because that was their bottleneck at one point. But after a certain point, that is just no longer as true, because our core can get quite strong, maybe faster than some other parts of our body. So you take something that does require a very strong core. So like a very heavy deadlift, imagine that. And it usually isn't the core muscles that are the bottleneck. It sometimes is, but especially after you get more advanced, there's usually other bottlenecks, and I'll give you a hint. Most people can lift more if you give them lifting straps. So one potential bottleneck was their grip. Now if it was a core, then the straps wouldn't matter as much. So the straps can help you grip 300 pounds, where your core can only sustain like 200 pounds, then you're gonna be able to lift 200 pounds. And of course with body weight stuff, you have things like the human flag and some gymnastics movements, which I don't consider myself an expert on gymnastics, but you talk to them, and from the little bit that I do know, a lot of the bottleneck is upper body, shoulders, things like that, not necessarily the core. It does help to have a strong core that's able to sustain that. And if you don't have that, then definitely build that up. But it's relatively fast compared to grip, shoulders, and some upper body muscles. Those are usually the limiting factor. So by all means, please continue your core training, but I want to kind of give some nuance to the idea, because there are a lot of videos and recommendations where like this is the unlock for you to get very strong. It can be an unlock if that is your bottleneck, but especially as you get more advanced, a lot of relatively advanced people, they level off their core training. It doesn't mean they stop. It means they might prioritize something else. So maybe they wanna work on their arms, their biceps, their pushing strength, or something, and they maintain the two sets of hanging leg raises. Building up eventually to three sets of 20 for a lot of people works pretty well. And of course, you wanna be more than strong enough to resist whatever movements and whatever thing that you might be doing in your life. And hey, I'm not saying that you have to stop. So if you don't feel like you're limited by your core strength and you enjoy whatever core training you have, by all means, keep doing it. Better safe than sorry, I guess. And you could just have a very small core. Do we know anyone with just a very small core? Like that was the thing they specialized in? Like imagine at a bodybuilding contest or something, you see one walk up to the stage and it's like 300 pound, heavyweight bodybuilders. And he takes off his shirt and his arms are not that big, but the middle of him is just rotund. He's just huge, a lot of width. And they're like, whoa, because they're bodybuilders. Like, bro, you need to lose weight. And he's like, no, I am already 5% body fat. This is all muscle. And you just zoom in. It's like, you just really build his abs and his back. I like to imagine if that happened, he would be nicknamed the barrel, because he'd be built like a barrel. And probably not something most of you need to do. And arguably not possible to have that kind of muscle distribution. And you probably shouldn't do it. I say that because there's always one person that's like, Hampton, I will email you. You have given me a new goal in life. I will become the barrel. So I don't recommend doing that. But thank you so much for watching. I hope you can find that helpful. Here's an app. If you need help with core training and homework out, have a beautiful day, my friend. And new chapters on our webtoon.

=== FILE: How to Get ＂Fit＂ If You Don’t Like Working Out [o-jwbxWJ7dg].txt ===

 There is a misunderstanding in fitness that I think is actively keeping some people less fit than they could be, and that is, you don't have to work out to be fit, or do you? It depends on how you define working out. Now, working out can be cool and beneficial, and I started a YouTube channel around it, but I do think there is a lazy way to fitness, or a not-enthusiast way to fitness, that a lot of people are already on, and there are some people who want the benefits of working out that they've heard, like living longer, especially as they get older, and having improved quality of life, but they just aren't passionate about working out. So that sounds like you or a friend, then hopefully this can help. But first, I think it's important to understand why we might have this perception of fitness, and do you know how hard it is to get everyone to agree on something? And yet, if you type into a search engine of your choice, exercise is healthy? Enter, then you'll see a lot of people do agree that exercise is healthy, myself included. Sadly, not everyone agrees, but I think a large majority do. So we have that first step, but the next step is what do you think of when you think of exercise? Now, you might think of biking, swimming, maybe sports, but I think a lot of people think about gym stuff, like working out stuff. So like going in, lifting weights, running on treadmills, and even calisthenics stuff like push-ups and pull-ups. So that is fitness, yes, I would say, but is that necessarily fitness and health? If you notice that fitness and health is kind of just like thrown in there, like a fitness center, and it's like, hey, join our center for fitness and health. Sign up today, exercise is good for you. This brings up an interesting question, which is, is fitness and health the same thing? Or perhaps a more visual example is someone who is a paragon of fitness, an ideal of fitness, also a paragon of health? And perhaps not necessarily, right? So we think of someone who's perfectly healthy in your mind, think of someone who's perfectly healthy, and we think of someone who's perfectly fit. And perfectly fit has some associations, again, with exercise and workout culture, right? Which I don't think is bad at all, but you think of someone who is quite athletic looking, muscular, lean, not necessarily the biggest, but you know, quite sporty looking, right? And from here, we can think of that sadly, there are a lot of people who looked like that. And you could say we're very good at their sport and very athletic and perhaps very muscular and strong, who may have unfortunately had some health side effects or maybe even died early because they trained and may have put some things in their body in pursuit of that fitness and ability that might have ended up making them less healthy. So I would say no, they're not quite the same thing. It makes sense. They're connected. They're deservedly so, I would say, but they're not quite the same thing. Fitness and health as a Venn diagram is not quite a circle. There's just some lumps on the side. But of course, there is research and of course, there are very intelligent, well read people talking about how exercise is good for you. And Hampton, didn't you show all those things? Didn't you say everyone agrees that exercise is healthy? What happened to that? Why are you backtracking? And I'm not trying to confuse anyone. What I'm trying to say is that there are some pursuits that are separate that we might have conflated. We might have connected in our mind. So we think about someone who is using physical activity for the purpose of being healthy and someone exercising for the purpose of getting stronger or looking very muscular and someone training for the purpose of being very good at their sport. I would say these are related, but they're slightly separate. And what this leads to is some people think they hear about the benefits of exercise and they say, well, I want to be healthy. I really have no interest in getting that much stronger or being muscular. And I'm not really an athlete. And they think, well, in order for me to be healthy, which is what I've heard, I have to do this stuff and they end up not doing it, which can be an issue. I just want to say here, I've kind of hinted at it throughout the video, but I like both the idea of doing push-ups and pull-ups and even lifting weights. And there is some research showing benefits of just having more muscle. So there is that. I'm not dissuading anyone. But I also know that as good as resistance training can be for you, some people are just very resistant to that. And if you are someone who is who is passionate about fitness, you may have experienced this with your friends and family. You're like, you're trying to get them into it. And there is just someone like you, like there's like a grandma or someone's like, there's no way to get them in a gym. There's not even real. You can kind of get them into Calisthenics, but they're like, they just don't really want to do it. But yet some of them have the health benefits. They can or they can't get the benefits of physical activity. And here are some ideas. And many of you already know this, but every video we get a few thousand new people. So there is a free online fitness routine. If you want to get started working out from home that can help you build up the things like push-ups, pull-ups and squats, you can start with a variation that you can do, practice it and then move on when you're strong enough. If you want to app that can walk you through that, tell you what exercises to do, when to rest and when to move on. We also have that. And we have a message board here if you want trainers to help you with fitness questions. So if you want some of the benefits of physical activity and you don't really like working out, here are three ideas. And I'll start with one that's relatively difficult to set up first, but then you don't really have to think about it. And then I'll have one where you can kind of go right into it, but then you have to actively maintain it and want to do it. And then I'll have one that's kind of in the middle. And the first is just changing your environment. So I live in the U.S. here and I studied in Germany for a semester. And when I was there, a lot of people have noted this, that a lot of European places are more walkable and people just walk more. I think they walk like on average, like twice as much as Americans, right? And from this, we naturally get more physical activity. Now, I want to say like the place I live, the U.S. is a big place, the place I live, I walk all the time, right? I don't necessarily have to walk to the store, but I enjoy walking, right? Through different seasons and you might see people walking in the background here. So it's not necessarily just having the opportunity to walk, but maybe a little of a culture or a subculture of walking. When I lived there, I didn't have a car, so I walked to the store. I walked to school. I walked to the coffee shop and I ended up walking like, like on the regular, I hit like 20,000 steps. You know, there was one day where I hit 30, 35,000, right? And I know some people do way more, just regular people who may never consider themselves exercise enthusiasts, may regularly be getting more activity than some fitness enthusiasts in the U.S. or certainly their counterparts in the U.S. Now, that's just walking and there's other stuff you can do for fitness, of course. But from here, the lesson I would learn is that if you just want to change the environment you're in or change what you usually do, then you can actually get more exercise that way. You can get more movement. You're like, hey, instead of driving down the road and obviously only do this if you can do it safely, I'm going to walk to the store and grab the groceries and come back. I'll just think about doing that. Or if you happen to be moving anyway, then you may want to consider moving to a place that gives you the opportunity if you want to walk or move to these places. If you happen to be moving right now anyway, then that might be something to consider, right? If you don't want to drive sometimes or you don't want to take transportation somewhere, can you walk to get the things you need safely and securely? But of course, most people will move just for having the benefit of walking more, but you can also change your work environment. So some people, again, like don't change your workplace is based on this. Some people actually choose a job that gives them more physical activity. So they naturally have that. Now, they may not be the most muscular. They may not be the most mobile. Like having a good routine is still good for you in that sense and that can cover a lot of faces. Some people just choose a physically active job and they get the benefits of exercise without ever really wanting to go work out. But those are relatively high friction options, right? Like fairly few people watch this video and be like, you know what? Because Hampton said so, I'm going to move somewhere else entirely, right? So I'm going to get a new job because Hampton said it can help me move around more, right? If there's anything else you can have it kind of in your back of your head for when you're moving locations or moving jobs. But for most people, that's not really something they're going to do right now. But something you can pick up is a hobby, right? So usually requires a little bit of setup there because you have to learn about the hobby. But afterwards, you can be a little bit more seamless, especially if you do it with someone. So having someone to kind of motivate you and especially if you like it, it can be a lot of fun and you can get a lot of activity relatively easily in that sense. So this can be a sport. So you can be learning basketball or tennis or I think pickleball is big. How many of you played pickleball? I have never tried it. I've seen people play it and I've heard that it's a lot of fun. I didn't even know pickles had balls and these things like this are sometimes called life hacks, right? Like get a hobby that involves you moving around and you'll move around more, right? Which is cool. And if that excites you, please go ahead and do that. But I think this isn't even a life hack. This is part of life. Like one of the interesting feels like an integral part of life. It's like pursuing something you like a hobby, something you enjoy doing by yourself or with a friend and doing that. And just like being in the zone on that makes you a little bit more, I don't want to say numb, but like you're not like dragging your feet as much like you want to move around. Like if you are really just like all in on bird watching or like that right there. I don't know how many birds, but that right there is a very special looking colorful bird. And I'm going to walk all the way. You can't really see it, but there's like a cliff over there. I'm going to spend three hours hiking over there just to be like, Hey, I'm watching you bird. Always watching. I recently rewatched Monsters, Inc and Monsters University. So that line to my head. So that last one is probably the most actionable for a lot of people just finding something that they might enjoy doing and exploring that. And hopefully they end up really liking and say, Oh, I'll just integrate that into my life. And I will make a little bit of time for that sport or hobby and I can get my physical movement through there. Maybe I'll integrate it with like a mobility or strength or calisthenics routine and I can kind of get like a big chunk of the benefits of fitness without ever having to really work out that much. Or sorry, it's not really enjoying working out because mobility and strength are technically working out. But some people may not like that. Some people will say, Well, I can't really, I don't really have time to pick up a new hobby. And like, like for many different reasons, this is not realistic for me to go out and start playing tennis or start playing basketball. I get that. You know, we're all in different situations and something you can do that requires almost no setup, but requires a little bit more like consistent effort into doing it. It's just working movement into your habits by adjusting your habits to involve some physical movement. And what this can be, what this can look like is if you talk with some friends on the phone, instead of sitting and doing it, you can walk and do it. So like around here, it's a relatively cool park. So you can just walk in a circle, but if you're at home, you can walk around your apartment, right? Or if you have those mini stepper things that are reviewed, let's use the editor. You can put the mini stepper review I did. You can do that while watching TV rather than just watching TV. You can do push-ups while watching TV. And this, yes, this involves, I guess, working out, but you're integrating the habit of movement into another thing that you already do, if that makes sense. So you pick something that you already do that doesn't require your full attention, like watching TV or talking to friends or listening to YouTube videos. And you just do that while walking or something. So those are just some ideas. There are probably tons of other ideas that you might have had. They're like, Hampton, why didn't you mention that? It's like, yeah, please mention them below on how you can move if you don't want to work out. Ultimately, once again, I like the idea of people working out. I like calisthenics. I named my channel Hybrid Calisthenics, not Hybrid Move Without Working Out. But I just know that there's some people that will just never really go to the gym. And those people I found, there's a subset that, yeah, they're a little bit more open to, you know, wall push-ups and pull-ups and things like that. But some of them are really not going to be passionate about working out. And if we still want them to be healthy, well, and happy, then we might introduce them to the idea of movement without working out, to where they're still moving around and getting a lot of the benefits of exercise and physical activity without having to do like up, down resistance training. Even though that can be pretty cool. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend. And we have a web tune about a traveling merchant, and that sounds interesting to you.

=== FILE: I did Tai Chi for 28 years. Here's what I noticed [QeAMb6wIDDU].txt ===

 I've done Tai Chi since I was about three years old. That's what my parents told me, anyway. I don't remember that much from when I was three, so I can only assume I was not that great at Tai Chi. But if you're wondering what it is, it's basically an ancient Chinese martial art that more commonly nowadays is used as exercise, the series of flowing movements and postures, some have called it meditation in motion. And I don't do that much Tai Chi nowadays. However, I was a part of a Tai Chi group for many, many years, and I have seen it help a lot of people. So even if you remove some of the more outlandish claims about it, it is something that has been researched. But the primary benefit that I've noticed for it, for myself, is not the one that a lot of people mention. So I wanna talk about it here. And it is something that I think a lot of people can use to benefit themselves, even if they have no interest in Tai Chi. And if you're wondering why I'm suddenly bringing this up, I made a video on Tai Chi back in 2020. That's back when the channel was a little bit small and I just wanted to make stuff I was interested in. And it recently had a small spike in views. I was like, why am I getting emails asking about Tai Chi? It's like, oh, that's why. And I wanna talk about it a little bit here. And there's a tiny amount of drama around that that I'll mention at the end if anyone's curious. And the lasting benefit that I see from Tai Chi isn't so much the movements, which tend to differ quite a bit from different styles. And beyond just open Tai Chi, which is how a lot of other forms start, there are a lot of little nuances in what we consider to be best. And I'll talk about that in a bit. But the real benefit that I think a lot of people immediately noticed as they were starting with our group is the mental benefits and the focus benefits. And it's not really surprising for something they call meditation in motion, right? But in our group, there was someone who usually taught the beginners that we're interested in. And he told them, I remember one time, he said, ideally you would start and then seven minutes later, which is around how long it took to do our form, seven minutes later, you would wake up. And I thought, that's a good way of putting it because the idea is that it was basically flow state from a couple of thousand years ago, right? Flow state before it was cool. So you would do Tai Chi and you just be focused on the movements themselves. And if you're like, well, I would do like this style, I would do that style and actually had my hands up or down or like my fingers are supposed to be pointed that way. And I'm not invalidating that. But I'm saying, if you think of the mental benefits, a lot of it just does come from calming down and focusing into staying locked in on the moment. And so you're not worrying ideally about like your taxes, you're not worrying about what happened a few minutes ago. You're just thinking about, huh, I'm only going to do this movement. I'm going to intentionally, intentionally place my feet here and stay balanced while I move through this. Now it does require the memorization of the form. So at first, you know, if you're following along on YouTube, you can't really lock in and be in flow state when you're like, wait a second, why is he staying there? Oh, just buffering. And so you have to learn at first. But after it takes like, you know, like a couple hours, you know, maybe a couple of weeks of like consistent practice and you learn a form or you kind of just go through the motions, then you can start to really focus on the form. And that is the benefit that I've seen a lot of people have. It is something that they've studied a bit. So there are cognitive benefits. And you could say, well, those, those studies were done on older individuals, Hampton. It may not apply to you. And yeah, you're right. By all means, don't take this as medical advice, go talk to your doctor. I don't know what's going on in your mind. It may not work for you. I'm just saying that the benefit of Tai Chi that I noticed for myself and for others is learning to stay present in the moment. And there's nothing really that special about the movements. I'm kind of saying this hesitantly from an exercise science standpoint. So this is why some of the claims are like, wow, I unlocked tremendous joint and tendon health through doing the form. And I realize not everyone is saying this, but there's not a whole lot of resistance, especially upper body that you're doing. So yes, it can burn some calories. And it's great for keeping people moving and as gentle and as low impact. That's awesome. But for building like strong upper body strength, maybe there's some way to do it. I'm not quite aware of just doing Tai Chi and becoming massively strong in some of the things. I just want to focus on the mental benefits, which is something that I have experienced myself, something I've taught to others, and something that we somewhat understand the research behind. But as I mentioned in the introduction, I understand not everyone has an interest in doing Tai Chi. Even if you're like, huh, that's interesting. And then you can never really want this. But I think a couple of weeks to learn something is at least a slight commitment. I understand. So I want to talk about a way where a lot of people can get started with this. The camera might go a little bit blurry here, but it was actually one of our Tai Chi instructors. He was telling the story. And I don't remember the names of it. So you can take it as legend if you want. But a man goes up to these monks and I think he's on like two week leave. And he says, or three week leave, he's like, hey, what can you teach me in three weeks? And they're like, well, not a whole lot. He's like, well, I only have three weeks. Right. And it's like, it takes years. And I only have three weeks. What can you teach me? He says, here's a room. Every day we'll give you some food and some water. But during your waking hours, you put one foot in front of the other, you walk from one side of the room, step by step, and you only focus on those steps. And then when you reach the other side of the room, you turn around and you do the same and you repeat. And you only focus on those steps. And if you want to do that and you have a safe place to do it, that is a similar dynamic to moving through the forms. Now, is there benefit from going through different Tai Chi? Yeah, sure. Right. You know, like there is a little bit of mobility. Some of them require a little bit of flexibility, especially if you look at some of the forms, if you don't want to try them, you can look at them. You're like, okay, yeah, that would, you know, some of them, it's more lower body strength. Some of them might require a little bit more physicality and they would have some benefits. But if you don't want to do any of that and you just want to benefit from what I would consider the mental benefits of Tai Chi, then walking or some kind of repetitive motion, it doesn't cause any pain, low impact, and you can do safely, just only focus on that. And if you want, you can set a timer and it goes off and like, 10 minutes, 15 minutes. And this has really helped me stay focused. Or not even just focused, but like present, I guess. I don't want to use a buzzword, but it's like focusing on the present moment, which even decades later, I have found has some very practical benefit to my life. Because if you think about something that, let's say you have a lot of reasons to be stressed, right? That's something I feel like if this were a room, I'm like, who here has at least some good reason to be stressed? How full do you think the room would be with like hands? I feel like we would see a lot of hands. But yep, everyone has different reasons. Like yeah, like health problems, family, job, there's usually stuff. And then I would say, who here thinks they perform better under stress? Right? And it's like, a couple of people's hands would go up. They're like a performance under pressure. Right? But where I would get that is like, yes, I would want the motivation of that pressure so I can do the stuff, of course. But when I'm actually in the middle of it, like let's say my job is to play music, or my job is to give speeches, or my job is to write the best book or article or thing or make the best YouTube videos. I can't do that quite as well. When I have something in the back of my mind, where I'm like, this is, I gotta do it. I gotta do it. I gotta do it. It's like, I don't actually don't really have that much issue working under pressure in that sense. But if I'm focused on stuff that might happen, and then stuff I'm trying to focus on now, then I'm kind of splitting my attention there. And it just really helps if I can go, I'm just gonna do this, I'm gonna do the best thing. I have determined previously that this is the thing I need to be working on now. I'm gonna do this to the best of my ability. And then after I'm done, I will move on to the next thing. And then like pretty much any action plan is going to be basically that. So you've got full clarity on exactly everything you need to do and what probably would happen. You would say, I'll do this, and I'll do this, and this will take me this amount of time, and then I'll do this, and then I'll do this, which is kind of one foot in front of the other, right? I would say one foot in front of the other with extra steps, but no. There are literally no extra steps. It's just like these steps of one foot in front of the other. If there were extra steps, then it'd be different. But yes, the slight drama around the video, if you wanna call it that. I'm not sure what it is about this video. Maybe there's, because there's a section where I'm not talking and I'm just doing the form. But every couple of years, I will get an email saying something like, this video is no longer making you money and the money is now going to this person. And I think I made that video before we really made any money from ad revenue. So it was something I never really considered. I just wanted to put it out there. But every once in a while, someone was like, hmm, I will try to go after this and say that, oh, you use my music without my permission. And it usually is like, if I feel like it, I'll be like, no, I have a license for that. So the music we use is all licensed. I'm like, no, I'll send it in. And they're usually like, all right, fine. And so I think sometimes they've actually just taken some of the money. And I'm not entirely sure if I had, I don't look that deeply into it. I'm not sure if I've gotten it back. And a couple of months ago, I think when this video started taking off a little bit again, I got another one of those emails. And this one was a little bit different because the song they claimed that I used was under a different title and artist than the one that I was licensed for. But I remember downloading that and using it. And it's pretty much exactly the same track. And it was like, ah, ah, ah, actually no, you can just use my editor, you can leave that in. But it'd be pretty silly if they were like, that's a recreation, that's a cover. It's a cover. But it was pretty much the same song. And this time I sent in my license. And they're like, nope, that's not the title of our song. I don't know what happened there. I think more likely someone either copied it or they sampled it because this one's been around for at least five years. It's not a new, new song in that sense. It's been under that title since I've had it. And I've had the license since in 2020. And they were like, no, this is ours. And we're gonna take the money from it. I don't even know how much money it made. Back then I think the ad revenue is different, probably a couple hundred dollars. So it's substantial, I would take it, yes. But it's not that different. But it's a relatively small thing. I don't know if it's the artist or just the company representing the artist. They were like, nope, this one's not okay. It's been okay for five years, but now it's not okay. And I'm like, huh. Sounds like you need to do some Tai Chi. We have a free fitness routine on our website if you wanna check it out, to build pushups, pullups and beyond. We have a fitness app that can help you through that and support from certified personal trainers if you need help. Oh, and we have a fantasy comedy web tune called Traveling Merchant Chronicles that I've been working on for over a year now. Check that out if you're into those kinds of web tunes. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Stop Wasting Your Workouts： 8 Rules That Make Every Set Count [UZQ2fLKD3bY].txt ===

 Let's say you're working out but you're not making the progress you want. Your strength isn't really going up and your body doesn't look quite the way you want. If that's you, it's usually not just genetics. It could just be a few simple boxes that you haven't checked yet. So in this video, we'll walk through a short checklist together so you know exactly what box you can tick next. Hello, my friend and your brother Hampton from Hybrid Calisthenics. When you first start working out, fitness seems a lot more like a black box. You hear about kettlebells, keto, magic, weight loss, morning, bananas. And if it doesn't work, it seems to all get filed under everybody's different. We are different, but thankfully we have way more similarities than differences. Once you understand a handful of levers that always matter, then you can see why different plans work and what yours might be missing. We'll cover food, training, recovery, technique, and mindset. First question is, are you doing something consistently? Before we talk about protein or perfect form, we should start here. Ask yourself in the last two months how many weeks that get at least two or three workouts in. If the answer is, uh, some? That's okay. We've all been there. But your number one upgrade is probably going to be consistency, not complexity. Consistency is uber important and lays the foundation for everything else we do here. Two solid, repeatable sessions every week will beat the perfect six-day plan you only do for five days and then give up or change. So the first box in our checklist is two to three workouts per week for at least four weeks. If you're not there yet, this will probably be the biggest benefit you get from this video. Just pick a simple routine you actually have time and energy for and start going ham on it, pun intended, and getting those reps in. If you want a simple plan to be consistent with, we have a free one on our website. I'll mention it later. For now, if you're not consistent yet, distinct two to three workouts per week, that's your goal. Next question to ask yourself, what do you want from your routine and what are your fitness goals? If your main goal is strength and muscle, but your workout is 90% cardio with a single set of push-ups at the end, there might be a mismatch. And for main goals, feeling limber and mobile, but your workouts are just basic compounds with no warm-up, stretching, or full range of motion might be able to improve there too. You don't need a perfect plan. Just check two to four strength sessions a week if you want strength or muscle. One in two cardio sessions per week if you want more stamina and some kind of mobility or stretching sprinkled in if you want to feel better just moving through daily life. And if that roughly lines up with your goals and routine, then you can tick this box. Just a quick note, don't be afraid to put on some muscle even if your goal isn't to body build. You probably won't get just two bulk eats. Quite difficult to do that and it takes some time to really put on a lot of muscle. And having some extra muscle will help most fitness goals out there. This next one is a big one. It's simple to do, but if you don't do it, then you might not make nearly as much progress as you could, even if you get everything else right. You can ask yourself, on most days, am I eating enough protein for my goal? As usual, talk to your doctor before getting on a new exercise program or adjusting your food. These are general statements and may or may not apply to you. I used to think protein was a bit overhyped, like this magic powder that companies would sell you to make you feel better and feel more athletic. And while it is a little overhyped sometimes, I'll say this, your need for enough protein is not controversial. Well, in general, a lot of people trying to build muscle do well somewhere between 0.7 to 1 gram of protein per pound of goal body weight. That's about 1.5 to 2.2 grams per kilogram. I know that might sound like a lot. When I first read it, I was like, it's gotta be a typo. But the good news is that you usually don't have to overhaul your whole diet all at once. For a lot of you watching, simply adding one extra protein shake or one palm-sized serving of protein a day is enough to move you from not enough to pretty decent. By the way, you may have heard lower amounts. The lower amounts you hear recommended are usually baselines, but your ideal amount will depend on you, your training, and your goals. If you're at least in the ballpark for protein on most days, then you can check this box. And beyond protein, you also need the right amount of total food. I've asked before and most of you want to build some strength and muscle. That usually means a slight caloric surplus will help. Not stuffing yourself, but it's a bit more than your body uses, so it actually has material to build with. Your stomach should not have to hurt for you to eat enough. If you're struggling looking for some higher calorie drinks, like different milks. For others, I know the goal is to lose some weight. That usually means a slight deficit. Again, you don't have to starve yourself. It's a bit less than you bring in as your body taps into stored energy. The main idea is the way I'm eating aligned with my goals. Check this out. Since I first started making content, I gained about 25 pounds. It wasn't even my primary goal. I just did. And my training is not radically different. I didn't suddenly discover a secret exercise. The main difference is I started to eat more food. You ever wonder what happens if you train hard but you don't eat enough to grow? Well, you pretty much just don't grow. And after a point, you might stop or slow making substantial strength progress too. So your tiny checklist here is trying to gain muscle and for a slight surplus. A little more food consistently. Trying to lose some fat and for a slight deficit consistently. Reducing sodas and sugary drinks is low-hanging fruit for a lot of people. If you're just trying to maintain that eat roughly enough that your body weight is stable over a few weeks. If you don't want to lose or gain weight, like, I don't want to listen to this, that's fine. We make a ton of content just focus on push-ups and pull-ups and we'll continue to make that. But the key is for you to find something sustainable. Ideally, something enjoyable enough that you can reasonably do it pretty much forever, not just for two weeks. Next, are your sets hard and frequent enough to matter? You can ask, in my main sets, do I ever get close to that I really have to focus and push to finish this feeling? And am I doing that a few times a week for each major muscle group or movement that I'm trying to train? Some people tend to do a bunch of easy sets and never really get close to that challenging zone. Others do super heavy sets with only one or two reps or holding for a few seconds. While all of those do have their place, it can be hard to make long-term progress doing only those. The sweet spot is usually a small or moderate number of focused, challenging sets done consistently. Simple rule of thumb. For your big movements like push, pull, and squats, have at least a couple of sets per week where if you had Q, you could only do one to three more reps. You don't have to go to the point of injury, just to the point where you really have to concentrate to finish. And by the way, I like the one to three rep range too. It's how you learn a lot of calisthenics skills sometimes. But for a lot of you watching, at least 68 reps will help you practice the movement a bit more. If at least a couple of sets per week really make you focus to finish, then you can check this box. By the way, if you're watching this and you're like, I just want a routine where I can do this and get started, and you don't know about it, we have a free fitness routine on our website called the hybrid fitness routine at hybridcalisthenics.com. You can think of it as an exercise routine that meets you where you're at, that you can do with body weight, lets you adjust to your current ability, finds a variation that works with your current fitness level, and you can combine it with other things you do. Again, it's free and it's just on the website. And if you want a bit more structure, tracking, and guidance in your pocket, we also have the app version called the hybrid calisthenics app. It's based on these same ideas, then tells you exactly what to do when to rest every day, and when to move on based on your feedback. You don't need either of those to work through this checklist, but if you want it and you didn't know about it, then they are there for you. That's why we made them. Okay, the next checkpoint is technique, but it might not be what you think, because it's not necessarily perfect for just this question. Do I feel this more in the muscle than I'm trying to work, or in some random joint, or a different muscle? If your wrists are screaming during push-ups because they're bent way back, or your lower back is doing all of the work, and that causes you to have to stop earlier than you otherwise would have to, that's a sign there might be room for improvement. Don't get extra experience points for pushing through bad pain. Simple adjustments for things like push-ups. You can move your hands back or use a slight incline so your wrists aren't overly stretched, or you can use parallettes. If you're doing an exercise, you can shorten the range a bit if a deeper portion causes sharp pain. You can also assist, or you can choose an easier variation or add an adjustment so the limiting factor is the target muscle, not the weak link. The version that you can do safely over and over again is the one that builds the most progress. 7's checkpoint is recovery. Two questions. Am I sleeping enough to feel fully rested, or at least not a total zombie? And am I giving my muscles at least a little time to rest before hammering them again? I've noticed I feel and recover best when I sleep at least 30 minutes past that point of, okay, I've had enough. So that last little bit of sleep seems to really help on days where I'm feeling sore or a little bit iffy. I jokingly call it sleeping to failure. Try to minimize my hours in reserve. Completely anecdotal. You don't have to copy that exactly, but a lot of us do under sleep and are just used to it. If you're always cutting your sleep short, right when you feel okay, try giving yourself a little bit extra buffer when you can. And again, same with rest days. You don't have to be perfect. Life won't always cooperate. I get it. But if you never let your body catch up, then you may feel less amazing than you could. And feeling amazing is pretty good. And last checkpoint is, do you actually enjoy any of this? You can ask yourself, is there at least one part of my routine that I look forward to even a little? If you hate 100% of your routine, then you might eventually quit. If even 10% feel spun or satisfying, then you're much more likely to stick with it for years. This could be a favorite exercise, a short walk while listening to music, or checking off a little box when you finish your workout. Whatever makes you feel like your routine and not just a punishment. By the way, part of the reason for this checklist is so you can enjoy your routine more. Making progress is motivating. It can be fun. So our little checklist is, am I being consistent enough and doing enough? Does my routine match my goals? Am I fueling my goal with enough protein? Am I getting enough calories? And is the way I'm eating a line with my goals? Are my sets challenging enough? Often enough. Do I have intentional technique that loads the muscles I want, not other muscles or random joints? Am I getting enough real sleep and rest? At least when I can. And is there at least one part of my routine that I genuinely like? You don't have to adjust everything all at once. I know there are some preferences, like some people don't want to talk about food, don't want to think about it. They only want you to push up some pull-ups here, and some people only want some easier workouts or some very intense workouts. And if what you're doing is working for you and you're making progress, by all means, keep doing it, that is awesome. This checklist is here if you ever want to make some adjustments or try some different things out. And if one thing sticks out to you, I would just start with that, and you can adjust the others as you go. But I found that for our audience and most of the people watching here, that if they're not making the progress they want, the thing they're missing is usually one of the fundamentals and one of the things we mentioned here. So hopefully it can work for you. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: This Small Thing Keeps You Motivated for YEARS [nU0D1gc3XLc].txt ===

 Early wins can keep you motivated for years, and here's how you can activate them to help you, and why this might be just as important as discipline. And I would define an early win as an early small improvement that helps us tie our effort to results. So if you worked out last week and you feel better this week, that can be an early win, and you probably can feel that, might be very motivating, empowering or build self-efficacy, whichever one appeals to you. But wait, shouldn't we not rely on motivation because motivation can be unreliable and discipline is required for growth? While that can be true, the issue, my issue with that, is discipline helps us do hard things, but not all hard things are worth doing, and having a small win to let us know we're going in the right direction can help us know whether or not something is worth doing or if we're on the right track. This doesn't mean things have to be perfect right away, let me be clear, but what this does is it can offer some proof that our efforts can lead us towards the results we want, and when we combine this motivating factor with discipline, it can help us delay gratification, and this is important because big results, big goals, usually take big time, and it's unfortunate, but you probably know from experience that you can spend a lot of time on something and not really get anywhere, and unfortunately, you can sometimes spend a lot of time on something and end up worse off than you were, so it can help to have some reassurance and self-evidence that our efforts and the thing we're waiting for will pay off over time. And with that in mind, here are three ways you can achieve some early wins to help you, and the last one trips up a lot of people, but it's probably also the most helpful. So the first thing you can do is you can build and plan for consistency, and here's what I mean, because you want to be consistent, even if it's not perfect, because nothing will really work if you don't do it consistently, and I think whatever you have in your mind, whatever fitness routine or routine in general, plan to do it for at least 30 days, even if it's not perfect, and I think there's some psych research. On the other hand, I would say 30 days is nice and round, and more importantly, my phone's over there, I don't have to look up the actual stat, and the reason this is so important is because the consistency itself is also an early win. When you keep a promise to yourself, I consider that a victory. When you say, hey, I'm gonna do this, and then you do it, you can feel pretty good about that, but also, this is kind of a cliche in fitness nowadays, right? Like what, being consistent helps, really? So what I mean by build for consistency is to set yourself up not for failure, but for success, and there are different ways you can win. And one of the things I would recommend is to have a light version of your routine, but have a core structure. So if you use the example of the routine we have on the website, each day only has two exercises, depending on the one you're looking at, and people are like, well, wait, Hampton, what about push-ups and leg raises? What about when I work on triceps? Like what about my obliques and stuff? And the thing is you can add all of those. I just think the core structure is very important because if you plan for your workout to be an hour a day, I think you'll realize that most people, no matter how consistent, they're going to have some days where they can't quite do that, either something comes up, or they're extra tired, or they're sick. And I think if you've resolved for consistency, and we know that being consistent can improve our idea of early wins, which in turn can help us be more consistent, so we want to be more consistent to be more consistent, so we want to build the idea of an easy way to be consistent, right? If you can't do an hour, it's not just a mulligan. It's just like, well, nope, it's gonna be an NA on today on the calendar, but you can do a light version of it that you can do in like 10, 15 minutes, and that can still move you towards your goals and the things you want to do. And another thing you can try, because I really want you to be consistent during that first month or two, because it can really help set that early win, is you can have some kind of plan for missed days, because just about everybody is going to have some missed days, even with the thing, the light routine that I was talking about, it's just like when you start a job, you're going to have some sick days. You're gonna have some days off, whether planned or not. So you can have a plan where you simply do the exercise the next day, which is what I do, but that may not work for everyone. For example, if I miss pushups today, when I'm doing pullups tomorrow, then I would do pushups and pullups tomorrow. And to be clear, that is more of a mental thing. You don't have to do that for optimal growth. And you're like, ah, I didn't really miss it, because I actually did it the next day. So that's something that I actually did early on when I was doing pushups every day. I would just add the pushups to the next day. And another thing you can do is you can have a preset amount of off days per month. And if you want, you can reward yourself if you don't use those off days, because the idea is to stick to the plan, right? So it's like, you don't want to say like, oh, I have three days, just random days that I'll take out this month, other in addition to my plan rest days, these are just like three random off days. And you can say, ah, if I don't do that, then I will buy myself a new T-shirt. Now, not everyone likes that idea of like, ah, you know, like go harder, get a reward. Some people say a message to them. So feel free not to use those. Feel free to use whichever one you think can work for you. I just wanted to give different examples to inspire different people. And the second one is one I've talked about a lot. So I won't spend too long on it, but you want to start with progression, weight, or difficulty that you know you can handle. And when in doubt, err on the side of being slightly too easy rather than too difficult. So a lot of people watching this are still working on their first push-up. And if you go like this and like, ah, I can barely do it. And then you do two sets, do nearly as many as you can do. And just two sets of two and then one. And then you try it again next week. You're like, man, it might feel a little bit better, but I don't really feel that much difference. And in the third week, it's like, I still don't really feel that much difference. So for one thing, you might not be getting enough volume with that to really trigger all the growth that you have potential for. Meaning that even if you're still doing three sets of as many as you safely can, if you're just doing like three reps total, that might not be enough to really get as much growth for what you need right now. And if you do an easy variation, just because I'm on the ground right now, you can do something like a knee push-up and it might feel easier to be like, ah, so I actually have added on like two reps since last week. And as you get stronger and as the exercise gets more difficult, it will usually be harder and represent greater growth when you add on a rep. So it is easier to add on reps to something like a wall push-up. And it is harder to add on a single rep to something like a one-on push-up, to add on a single rep when you're already benching like 500 pounds. It's not exactly how it works, but you can visualize it as in like, if you're just moving 15 pounds like this, so it's 15, 30, 45, 60, 75. If it's 15 each and your ability increases by say 30 the next week, then you'll be able to do two more, right? This is a simple example. But if you're doing something that requires a total score of like 100, then you might increase by 50, but you haven't really gotten that extra rep. You might not be able to feel that. Even though you're halfway there, you've actually grown more, you've grown 50 here, but 30 there. So you've made good gains, but you can't quite feel or see it yet and that can be demotivating, especially early on. And once again, after you build these early wins, then you know, especially after months and years, you're like, okay, cool. It'll take me a while to be able to bench this amount. It'll be a while before I can do this Calisthenics exercise, but because I have experience and now I'm a little bit more confident than I know what I'm doing, I know I can spend more time on this and eventually I can get to my goals accurately and safely. And you can skip this if you already know, but if you want the progressions that we use, we put them on our website at hybridcalisthenics.com, I know people have seen this before if you're a regular viewer, but every new video, every day, I get people basically asking this question of where do I start and this is my answer that I've given over time. And since it's been around for a few years, it's pretty cool to see people now give reviews and say, hey, I followed this for several months or even several years and it helped me get to push-ups, pull-ups, squats, and beyond, which I think is really cool and we'll keep trying to improve it. And now we do have a fitness mobile app in beta that can give you the exercises day to day and tell you what progression to move onto based on your feedback. We're starting a new development cycle in September, which is a few days from when I'm filming this, so super excited about that. And the third and last thing that you can do to reinforce those early wins is you can measure what matters and have realistic expectations for that. And like I said, this one can help a lot of people, but it's also a little bit trickier, so I might spend a little bit extra time on it. And I'll start with an imperfect metaphor and that is, let's say you start a new job, that'll be the metaphor for your routine here. A new job, you like it, you're excited to start, but what you track for how much money you're making is your bank account day to day. Now in the US, where I'm at, it might be different from where you are, in a lot of jobs you get paid every two weeks, right? But let's say you started this job and it's good, the pay is actually good, but you go in and the next day you look at your bank account and you're like, man, it didn't go up, right? In fact, it went down because I had to pay for gas in order to get to the job. Well, this job is not very good, it's clearly not working, even though I thought it would be good. But obviously, this is like, most people will be like, oh yeah, of course, right? You just track your hours work and look at the contract for like how much you get paid per hour and that's more of an accurate determinant of like how much you'll make over time in your progress. So this seems obvious to us for something like a job. And even though it's not a perfect metaphor, some people unfortunately fall into this kind of trap when they're exercising, right? Which is why I recommend something like reps, which is a little bit more consistent, but pretty much anything you track will have a little bit of variability. But a lot of people watching this, their goal is, some people watching this, their goal is to lose weight, right? And they can adjust the things they eat and exercise as part of that. They get really excited about this new fitness routine. They're like, yes, this makes sense. I like it, it's something I can do. And that first day they go hard and like, man, I did all this exercise. I feel a little bit sore the next day, but I'm gonna step on a scale because that was my goal. And oh, the numbers have gone up and I'm trying to lose weight. So why have I gained weight? Now, this is not uncommon for exercise. So if you've experienced that, don't worry. There's a little bit of inflammation, water retention, things that might happen the day after exercise, especially if you haven't been exercising for a while. And it's highly unlikely for someone to gain like two or three pounds of fat if you're trying to lose fat. So I'm just saying, don't worry. But you see how that kind of works as like the opposite of an early weight. It kind of feels like an early loss if that's your goal, right? It's like, well, I'm moving in the wrong direction. Should I keep going? When you want to measure the things that actually measure your progress and you still need to give that some time. I know the idea is like fast feedback cycle so you can go faster, you can see the victory. So usually I would like someone to see the reps increase on an easier exercise like a wall pushup. And they can go from like 10 to 20, 20 to 30 pretty quickly, even like Monday and next Monday or for some people like Monday and then Tuesday, right? Depends on the person Monday and Wednesday. The exercise form, like how hard you went and how like your current conditioning, it will affect a lot of that. How it fit you were before you stopped or if you ever exercised before, that can all affect it. So if you're like, hey, I didn't make those things, don't worry, everyone's a little bit different. But that's why I like tracking reps. But even reps aren't perfect because you can be sore. You can just happen to be sore the next time you do pushups and you measure that again. Man, I just didn't do as many. But even though you measure under the same conditions, maybe the day before you had to sprint for a little bit and like you were sore, you didn't feel it. So it's not quite perfect. And it's tough to find an exact thing to measure, right? And that's why it's a little bit complicated here. If you know, if everyone could see their actual progress, I feel like a lot of people would be a lot more motivated. It's like, okay, that's cool. Well, like my reps have gone down and I'm trying to lose weight or gain muscle, but I just haven't really seen it in the past couple of days. But I can see my actual progress line is going up. I feel like a lot of people would be like, I'll just put in the work day in, day out, day in, day out. Because like I can see it going up, but in reality, it's not quite that. So I was thinking about a way around this. And usually the difference is experience and knowledge, right? So some people watching this are pretty experienced in fitness, right? So they know like, okay, well, I don't need to track day to day because I know the things I'm doing will work. But that takes a little bit, fitness isn't super complicated, but it takes a little bit of time to build that. So what some people do is they hire a trainer and knows what they're talking about and has experience coaching people towards the goal that you want. I know not everyone can afford that, but I think the two major workarounds, if you're struggling with early wins, what you're doing is working totally fine. If you're struggling with early wins, you can either look things up and learn yourself or you can hire someone else that knows. And that can give you reassurance because the more you know, the more you understand about your method, the longer you can stay motivated and be like, okay, cool. So I know doing this will result in this. I've seen it before. I understand how it works. So I'm just gonna keep doing this. I really hope this can help. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Tiny Workout Changes, Big Results [JrFypdHlbk8].txt ===

 If I wanted to get dramatically better workout results this year without spending more time at the gym, these are small changes that I would make. Not on your routine, not waking up at 5am before everyone else. It's the few quiet switches that make everything easier and more effective. Hello my friend, it is your brother Hampton from Hybrid Calisthenics. For many people that want to be more fit, they think the answer is more. More time, more effort, more pain, and more can help. But what a lot of us need is more focus. Adding things actually reduces focus. So what actually moved the needle for me and a lot of our community were small changes that slipped into the routine I already had. Today I want to share some of those with you. Think of this as a menu. You don't have to eat everything. Even picking one or two can make a big difference. Let me ask you, if I told you that you can't add more time to your workout, what would you change instead? Your form, your rest, your schedule? Most people never think about this. They only think in terms of adding more. This may work for a few weeks, but most of us don't work out for a living. I guess I kind of do. But even then, eventually we hit a point where we're making progress but can't sustain this long term. That's when some people say I just don't have time to be fit. But for me, when life got busier, I had to figure out a way to improve without tripling my workout time. That's when I started looking for tiny levers. Places where 1% tweak gave a 20% benefit. Instead of asking how much more can I add, start asking, what's the smallest change I can make to what I already do and pays me back every week? Once I started thinking this way, fitness stopped being a problem and ran on autopilot. Let's go through some of these changes. Most people watching this want some combination of more strength and energy, more muscle, and less random aches and pains. None of that requires a brutal complicated plan. It does require you to stop leaking progress in small, fixable ways. Change number one. Add one honest warm-up set before your first exercise. Not 20 minutes of stretching, just one light set that you treat seriously. Full range of motion, focused breathing, controlled tempo. What this does is it wakes up the joints you're about to use, let your brain rehearse the pattern, and catch this weird tightness before you load heavy. This sounds boring, but there's a reason the pros do this too. Two main benefits. This can increase your performance, so you're lifting more, doing more reps, etc. This means faster progress for you, easy win. And a good warm-up should reduce the amount of damage you're taking during your reps. You may have heard of damage equals growth. This is not necessarily true. It's not the sole driver. Mechanical tension is thought to drive growth nowadays. Think about it. You can damage yourself by falling down. It might cause a lot of damage. Why even work out if that's what causes growth? And if you want something that's less of a straw man, jogging for long, long distances can cause plenty of muscle damage. An intense, unweighted stretching can cause soreness and damage. None of those are necessarily done for muscle growth. Without going too much into it, you want to stimulate growth with good reps without causing excess damage. Warm-ups are cool. Change number two. Keep your routine, but control your reps more. I'm not actually as big on eccentrics as some calisthenics and fitness people are, but many people do their reps too quickly. It's not necessarily bad, but more momentum when you're moving up means your muscles are feeling less weight. You don't have to count perfectly, but think down smooth, tiny pause, then up as a general rule of thumb. This alone will make easier exercises feel more challenging. You might be able to build more muscle with the same sets and can help you practice a movement and help you build the mind muscle connection that a lot people talk about sometimes. No new exercises, no extra sets. You just get more from the stuff you're already doing in a similar time. Change number three. Have a preset routine and know tomorrow's exercise today. One of the biggest places people lose momentum is that tiny moment before a workout where they think, so what do I do today? Whatever routine you choose, solve that once, not every day. Just write it down. Know exactly which exercises you're doing, how many sets, and on which days. This could be a simple full body plan you made yourself, a program from a coach, the free routine on our website, hint hint, or the daily plan inside our app that tells you exactly what to do and when to rest and when to move on. That sounds interesting to you. Here's the link. Look it up. But the key is don't leave it in your head. Put it on paper, order an app, and follow it. When you wake up, tomorrow's workout should already be decided. That way you don't really have to think about it. Then it's not like you're negotiating with your brain. It's not should I work out or what should I do? It's just time to do what's on the plan. Change number four. Use today's workout time to set up your workout life. This is one of those things you do once, but benefit from for a long time. If you know something will help your fitness, take your usual workout time to set it up to make future workouts easier. Set up a pull-up bar where you actually walk by it. Lay a simple home corner with a mat, a pair of dumbbells, and some floor space. If you go to a gym, keep your gym bag always packed and in the same spot so you can just grab it and go. The simpler you make it for yourself, the less willpower you'll need to be consistent, which is good. And you can also tie this into something you already do. So after work, your bag is ready by the door. Before dinner, you pass the pull-up bar or your mat. If you have trouble staying consistent, that can be very helpful because you do something before you eat dinner. You do this after work. So it's tied to something that you're already doing. And again, I recommend that you take one of your workout time. So time that you've reserved for working out and to spend it on setting it up for your ideal setup. It doesn't have to be perfect, but to set it up and take some time for it. Like spending one session creating a good workout setup that you can use for weeks and weeks and months and months and years and years. And you might be able to remove hundreds of tiny little setbacks and oh, I missed this because I don't have my thing years on the road. Have you a good setup? One of the best things you can do for yourself. It might only take a few hours or less. So you're not trying to be more disciplined here. You're just making it so easy to start so that discipline doesn't have to work as hard. Change number five. Protect a single sleep rule that supports your training. Not a 27 step bedtime ritual. Just one rule like I'm in bed within the same 60 minute window every night or no scrolling in bed. That one's pretty tough. So pick something you can commit to. I know this sounds cliche, but when your sleep is chaotic, you can have the best routine in the world and you still might feel terrible when you're trying to do it. You have more willpower when you're well rested. You have more resistance to temptation. You can do more things that you want to do. These all sound like really good things because they are really good things. Getting good sleep is one of the healthiest things we can do for ourselves. And there's a whole skill to getting good sleep like blackout curtains, finding the ideal sleep temperature. You don't have to do all of that for the sake of this video. Just making one sleep habit change is one guardrail around sleep can make your workouts feel 10 times easier and a lot easier to commit to. Same exercises, same schedule, less suffering. So you're more likely to do it, which is how you're going to get the results. Change number six. Set a tiny floor for bad days, a foundation. So your floor might be five minutes of movement, one set per exercise instead of three minutes, or 10 minute walk instead of a full workout. You can do this and say, Hey, if I do this and I'm still tired or I don't have time, then I can stop and just come back to this another day. This is the rule on great days and normal days. You can do as much as you like on awful days where you still might want to work out. You can still do the floor, the foundation. I actually call mine the foundation, but floor might seem more clear for some people. That way it's never just all or zero. You can walk or you can jog, but you're always moving forward after you know what to do. You can make good progress off one or two hard sets. Change number seven. Treat fitness habits as a skill. A lot of us quietly carry labels like I'm inconsistent workouts just don't work for me or I can't do this stuff. It's for other people. The weird guy on YouTube with the long hair and the tank tops, for example. Look, I understand the frustration and I can't tell you that every belief you have about yourself, every negative belief you have is false because some of them might be based in some reality. I don't want to tell you that you can jump really high when you can't jump really high yet. But some of the biggest improvements in my own life came from breaking some stories about myself where I say this is just who I am. I'm talking just fitness stuff here, but there are some things we associate with this is who we are. When it's something we can't improve but just aren't quite sure how yet. If you look really closely, some of our issues stopping us are skill problems, not inherently a you problem. And we can break these down. Like I have trouble with consistency is sometimes just I've never gotten past that first two or three weeks of building the habit. And once you're past that, maybe you can get a friend to keep you accountable or do it with a friend so it's more fun or try a new simpler workout that doesn't take as long so you can get past those two or three weeks and then all of a sudden you're consistent. That's awesome. Or it might just been so long when you've thought pushups hurt my shoulder so I can't do pushups. And sometimes you can solve that was finding an easier progression like wall pushups or incline pushups, having a good warm up or using better more consistent form. It's always super wonderful to hear when someone's like, Oh, I always struggled with these and I thought I would always have to and then I made these changes and now I can do it. Fitness is a skill or a series of skills and skills can be improved. So instead of saying I'm bad at this, try saying what's the smallest change that would make this easier for me to practice. The other tips in this video are designed to make that practice doable. So better setup, clear routine, smaller floors on bad days. If you give them an honest try, you might find that what you thought was just the way you are was really just the way you were training. And again, this is just fitness stuff. So if you're looking at this, you're like, Oh, I never thought that I could change my height, but Hampton is saying that I can. I wonder how I'm just talking fitness stuff like pushups. And I know a lot of people watch this and think, Well, all the sounds too small, usually like small, tiny changes, but I want big results. I have big goals. I want to be big metaphorically and literally for some people. And I get that. I know some of you are really inspired. You want to chase the biggest, hardest plan you can find. But here's the pattern I see. So huge plan, huge burnout and huge gap of doing nothing where we usually aren't making progress. But small plan, small effort, no gap and big results over time. There's a saying that the best routine is the one that you can stick to over time and is well designed. And if you're still watching, you're probably the kind of person who's tired of starting over. That's who this video is for. If you just been inactive for a while, there's a tendency to want to commit to an intense short term goal, kind of the idea of making up for lost time. If that's what inspires you, and will make you stick, please go for it. However, you can't necessarily make up for lost time in the sense of going faster than everyone else. There's a limit to how fast we can improve. And doing more doesn't always mean you'll be getting more better results. And for a lot of people starting out, it actually might mean they get slower results, because they do a bunch of extra stuff they may not need or be ready for and end up really stiff and sore. And it's hard to work out and they miss a few days and then gets easier to break the habit that they're trying to build. If that's you, consider making small, effective changes that you can sustain over time and then build that into something big. If you want a routine that already bakes this idea in short, scalable, meant to fit into real life, you have a free fitness routine on the website, you can look at it, hypercountsnext.com, slash routine. And there's also a fitness app we spent a lot of time on this year. So much time spent staring at the screen, but people are telling me it helps, which I love. You all are logging thousands and thousands of workouts a week. And the app can tell you exactly what to do, when to rest and when to move on based on your feedback. But whether you use mine or use your own or use someone else's, just try this, pick one of these changes and just do it this week, apply it this week, because I try to make them not so big that you think, well, not today, but I'll add this when life calms down and I'm able to do this. It's okay if it's not perfect at first, but just try to make a small, repeatable upgrade to your fitness routine that will hopefully upgrade your life too. And if you don't like it, you can get rid of it. But if you do like it, then you can keep it and you can get benefits for years. And that's always pretty cool. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Why You Keep Quitting (And The Simple Fix) [Jdo3M-zD_Qw].txt ===

 Consistency is vastly more important than most people realize. And it is the thing that is stopping many of us from achieving the goals we want, which are actually closer than we realize if we just stuck to something and committed for a little bit. And here are three reasons why that you may not have considered yet. And the first is that you can have a perfect system, but if you don't follow it, then you won't get anything from it. And most of us already realize this, right? In fitness and beyond, you could have a perfect trainer, a perfect gym, a perfect nutrition plan, but if you don't do the thing, then you might as well not have them. But most of us do the thing somewhat. We follow our workout routines. We follow our practice regimens at least somewhat, but there are some off days and some days where we don't do anything, but then there are some days when we feel very motivated or like, yes, we'll do some more, which is fine. A lot of people go through this and it's, of course, it's okay to have off days, but I want to give a visual for how much difference this can make if we just try to stick with something realistically. If you've ever driven with someone, like on a road trip and you're just cars together, if someone keeps driving, but you pull over and you stop to get gas or you stop to take a rest and then you get back on, you may realize that that person is quite far away. They didn't speed up. You just stopped and they kept going, right? And sometimes you have to drive a lot faster just to catch up, don't break the speed limit, be safe. And if you don't drive, then you might notice this when you walk, if you're walking with someone, let's say, oh, like I'm just gonna pause and tie my shoes. Oh, I have a text that I'm going to answer. And these can all be important things. You should tie your shoes and you should answer important texts. But then when you're done, you're so absorbed in that, you look at the other person and they're like, whoa, man, why'd you run away? They didn't. You were just stopping doing something else. And if you want to do math, you can kind of think of it like this. Let's say you have one car driving at 50 miles an hour for 30 minutes. And then you have a second car driving the exact same path, but the only differences are you start about three minutes later, you do some prep, and then 10 minutes into the trip, you stop for another three minutes because something came up and you do another one 10 minutes later for another three minutes. Well, how fast would you have to drive? These are times we take off. Well, in order to get to the same spot, you have to drive like 75 miles an hour. I actually did the math on a third, so it's actually 3.33 minutes. And if you've ever driven, then you'll know the difference between 50 miles an hour and 75 miles an hour is quite a substantial difference. That can be the difference between chill, driving through town and freeway driving. Neither is really that fast. Sometimes people are like, now I am done. I can go way faster on the auto bond, which I've been on once. It was pretty fun. And I say this not to encourage you to think that you can never take breaks. Of course you can take breaks. What I want people to realize is that when we talk about consistency and sticking with something, there's often a counter from certain parts where people say, well, no, I want to watch my mental health. I want this to, you know, I don't want to just focus only on this and forget the important things. And I actually find this to be mentally healthy when we realize that we don't have to go 100% or go faster, in this case, do the 75 and go faster, we can do things at a normal pace. But if we stick to it, we can still get quite far as someone who might be, in your own words, maybe more talented or maybe they started ahead. But if we just keep going, then we can go quite far just from that. And of course we all have different priorities. Of course, right? So the reason I am not more advanced in fitness, the reason I am not more advanced in social media, the reason I bring up those two things is because those are two things that a lot of people watching this know me for. So there's fitness and social media. And I have really prioritized my family. So it's always been my top priority, taking care of family. And as a result, I have a very good relationship with my wife and I considered myself to be very blessed for that. But I also could have done that and been more consistent with fitness. I also could have done that and been more consistent with social media and business stuff, right? There wasn't always a trade-off. Sometimes it was just mismanagement of time, which I think we all do and we're learning to get better. And I bring this up because we tend to have immediate ideas. That's why I'm bringing it up early in the video, where you hear like, oh, like being consistent, but I chose something more important. I chose my family, I chose my friends. And as someone who did that, I know I could have done that and made more progress on other things. If I just stuck with something and accepted that some days I won't be as good. Some days I won't be at 100% and doing my absolute best work, but I'm doing up, I'm showing, I'm practicing, and I'm making incremental improvement. And I can do all of that and still be mentally healthy. I can still do that and actually be happier because I feel satisfied when I'm keeping a promise to myself and staying consistent. And the number two benefit of consistency is measurement. It can help us determine whether things are good or bad. So we know from the first part that we can have a perfect system, but if we don't follow it, then we won't get anywhere. However, we usually don't know whether a system is perfect or not. It usually isn't, but we don't know if a system is good or not until we follow it for a while. But you may have experienced this. If you follow a recipe, but you don't follow it to a tee, and you're like, eh, this recipe, you know, it really wasn't that good. Can you say the recipe was bad or did you just take a different path and you're not even sure if the recipe was good, right? And if you measure a workout routine, you tried it for a few weeks, a few months, and someone says, well, was any good? It is harder for you to say whether it was good or bad if you didn't follow it to a tee, right? If you're supposed to do it six days a week, but you did it two days a week, and some workout routines can do that, but you're supposed to follow it six days a week. Then in my opinion, you don't really know if that particular workout routine was working for you. Let's say it was a nine week program. You don't really know your evaluation of those nine weeks because you didn't follow it to a tee. Now, sometimes of course, you get a weekend two weeks in and you immediately know this is not for you and you can change, that is fine. But when we want to give something a fair or worldly doodle, when we really want to try something, then we usually have to follow it to a tee and then we say, ah, this is not for me. This is not something that's gonna work. Let me change. And this happens across every field, across every person. Most people will have to change at least sometime in their lives. We change schools, we change careers, we change romantic partners. That's why we date, right? So sometimes we try something and we really try to go somewhere else. But if we don't give something a fair try, if we don't actually follow it consistently, then it's hard to evaluate whether it's good or bad. And if we think of our goal, our destination, where we want to be, we usually have to try a few things in order to get there and be like, hmm, here are five things that can work. Ah, this one didn't work, this one didn't work. And the faster we can stick to something and evaluate whether or not it's actually good for us or the fair assessment, the faster we can move on, the faster we can find it. My friend was telling me the other day that on average people have to go through like seven different therapists in order to find the one they think works the best for them. I don't know how accurate that is. And I don't know, it's probably depends on the country, the field and the individual, of course. Some people will find it on their first try, which is awesome. Some people might take a little bit longer, have to try a little bit more. But my point is you may not know whether or not something even works for you until you give it a try and how you go there consistently. If the therapist says, hey, I would like to meet with you once a week and you're like, eh, I'll show up every six months. Then you don't necessarily know if that therapist was the one for you. Maybe they just give you a bad signal, but eventually if you find something where you're like, hmm, this is a positive signal, I'm not sure yet, you're going to have to give it a fair trial and that can usually be done through consistency. And number three, consistency is important for feedback loops. This is probably the shortest, simplest one and it applies more to things where we practice, but also things where we find. So think about music or fitness or things. And you talk to coaches and you ask them, how often per week should I practice, should I train? There's different terminology depending on what field it is. And you'll notice that a lot of good coaches will bring up this concept of like, oh yeah, I would like for you to do this a few days a week and you can do like six, you can do every day, you can do five. And then around the time of two or three, depending on what it is, a lot of them will bring up this concept of like, you really don't want to go below this because then you start not remembering as much of the things you learned from your previous session. If you're learning guitar, for example, you do once a week, if you'd practice once a day, you might remember the things you learned yesterday, the day before, day before, even if you're not making that much progress, whereas let's use a more extreme example, if you pick up and practice the guitar very intentionally for an hour, but you do that only once a month, you might not have enough feedback cycles to where it's like, oh, this didn't work or this will work, or like, what did I learn the last time I practiced? So the more commonly we do something, the more often, the more consistently we do something, the faster we can go through those feedback cycles. It's similar to measurement, but in this case, it's small little adjustments like, oh, this will work for me, this, I don't really like that. Oh, if I use this position, or if I try this new technique, this can work really well, and it stays in our fresh memory, the more consistently we do it. If we do it off and on, we might still learn, right? So there's a scale of this, right? If you do it like once a day, once a week, two or three times a week, you can usually, in most things, get away with a few times a week, but when we start to drift beyond that a little bit, it gets a little bit harder. And now I wanna talk about the mental health aspects of this again. There's some pushback against people who say, well, I don't wanna do this consistently and sacrifice my mental health. Of course, find something sustainable. To use the car example, the fastest way to get there is to go the speed limit, of course, within the speed limit, go as fast as you can, as soon as possible, and take no breaks. But reality often isn't that, right? We're not all cars, and even using the car example, sometimes you have to stop for gas. 100%, of course, you wanna find something sustainable for you, you wanna find something sustainable. But especially for things like fitness, and I wanna go too broad, we can usually improve our tolerance and frequency over time. Meaning, when people first get started working out, I don't advise them to go too hard yet. You go a little bit softer at first. Go a little bit softer at first, right? So you don't get too sore, and you ease yourself in. But after you're used to that, you can start doing more and more days. Right, you can do more frequency. And it takes a while for us to develop a habit. So you're like, man, doing this every day, the same as like a lot. But think about all the things you do daily, right? Well, all the things you regularly like brush your teeth, or shower, or change your clothes, or all these habits that you have that are ingrained. And I bring this up because there is a degree of automaticity. It's my first time trying to pronounce that word. But the theory to which you do something automatically, we do something without thinking. And it is increasingly embedded over time, right? There are some studies on habit building which show that this can range from a few weeks to like a year. But after you get used to it, you start doing it automatically. To where, so you're like, man, I don't think I can do, I don't think I can commit to like once a day consistently. You wanna consider your goals too. Let's say guitar. If you don't want to be like a professional player, practice whatever you want. Practice whatever you want, right? But if you have goals, you'll hit, I want to be very good. And you're practicing once a week. Do your goals match your actions and your ambitions. It's something to consider, right? Because ultimately you can choose whatever you want. But if you have big ambitions, you usually have to have big actions. And I don't want someone to be too disappointed. But you can rest assured that even if something doesn't seem sustainable now, you can work your way up to where that becomes more comfortable. And it actually might feel uncomfortable to not do something. Just some thoughts. I have really been trying to focus on consistency for myself and others. It is something that I'm trying to build. So whenever I have a goal, I want to put it into my system. And it's not always easy at first, but I want to increase it over time. That is a train. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.

=== FILE: Why is Japanese Walking Going Viral？ (And how can we improve it？) [1oKeA65F-mE].txt ===

 There's a new trend in fitness, a Japanese walking method. And compared to regular walking, it's supposed to offer better cardio, increased strength and endurance in your legs, and even improve metabolic health. But what is Japanese walking? And for those wondering, no, it's not just me walking. I'm not, I'm not even Japanese. It is a walking method that seems to have been popularized based on a study done by Japanese researchers. And it is essentially interval walking. So sometimes it's called interval walking training, or IWT, where you spend a few minutes, three to five minutes warming up, then you do a slow walk, like so, for three minutes, and then you do a fast walk for three minutes, and you repeat that the slow and fast five times for a total of 30 minutes, plus whatever time it takes you to warm up. And that is actually about half the time it would take a person to walk 10,000 steps, which is what a lot of people go for. And yet you get increased leg strength because of the faster walking, and you also get around the same caloric burn, and some places actually say it's better for weight loss. So essentially it's a more efficient way of getting your walking training. Or at least that's what some people have been saying. You may have already seen this, and you might see other videos about this. Like I said, it is trending. I heard about it first from Coach Eugene. He has a great video on it, check it out. And while the exact benefits will probably vary from person to person, that's probably why you'll hear different stats about it being 20 times better, 30 times better, 100 times better than regular walking, it's probably gonna depend on the individual and also what you're comparing it to, comparing to regular walking, or comparing and sitting around. But personally I do like it. It is something that I think I will incorporate. And I think it's great for someone who already likes walking, or especially for someone who isn't quite sure where to start, but is open to walking. I think this can be a good, relatively time effective way of doing this. But there might be some ways you can make it better, or at least more suited to you. And I think I will do some laps while I do this. I'll do three minutes and then talk about it. And actually I might need to bring my camera so nobody steals it. And okay, that was three minutes. Three minutes isn't very long. It's about the length of a lot of songs. So if you want a little bit more fun way to do this, you could just like walk until your song changes, and then either speed up or slow down. But the first way I would try to improve this, or something I try to do anyway, and you don't have to do barefoot, a lot of people probably shouldn't, is intentional walking. So something I enjoy while I'm walking anyway, especially for exercise, is I would try to focus on the movement of my feet. And especially if you're able to feel your toes, and feel the bottom of your foot and how it's touching the ground. And it's not supposed to be some magical thing, and it can help you be more aware of your footing for something that you're doing anyway. So it's basically just like connecting to your feet as you're using your feet. And the reason I'm walking backwards is actually not a health benefit, but because sometimes I turn around and the camera's like, ah, we can't see his face. And then like zooms in on a leaf, then it's like a crystal clear leaf, but I'm blurry. So that's why I'm walking backwards right now. Okay, time to do the three minutes of fast walking. You're supposed to be able to speak short sentences. So for me, when I'm holding a camera, this is about the speed. I feel like I can go a little bit faster and speak short sentences, but then it feels like I'm like on the edge of running. So I'm just gonna do this. Roar. Okay, so that was three minutes of that, time to slow down again. And I will say that while my pulse is elevated as a train, it's nowhere close to jogging or even suddenly sprinting, of course. And if you're like me and you like to understand why something works, then we can talk about that a little bit, because while it's very important if something works, I also like to understand why, because it motivates me to do more when I can kind of feel the mechanisms behind it. Walking is a great accessible exercise, which is wonderful for a lot of people. But because it is accessible, I'll walk backwards so we don't do the blur thing. It's partially more accessible because it doesn't require a lot of strength or energy or impact to move. However, if we sometimes walk and then walk quickly, we may be able to recruit some of the larger, stronger muscle fibers, and those are the ones usually responsible for muscle and strength. So not only are we stronger in our lower body, which is very important, especially as we get older, because we don't want to fall, but sarcopenia, which doesn't sound good and isn't good because it's muscle loss, is also reduced if we incorporate this occasionally. And that's actually another way that I might make this walking better, or at least more suited to me, is using those three minutes while you're walking as a rest time and then doing some resistance exercise and getting the benefits that we discussed from that. In between, switching between slow and fast walking, and you can do different exercises, you can do squats, and you need different progressions. We have those on our website and in our app. Pushups, you can start from anywhere from like wall pushups to one arm pushups, squats. You can use something to assist yourself to do squats and work up to one arm, one leg squats. And if you've heard about that a lot, every day to this day, I still get messages on how do I get fit, how do I do more pushups, how do I get started, and this is something that we built on our website for free. You don't have to sign in to help you get started. So if you're wondering how to start, that is how I would start, and you can work this in with walking. We have a support board. If you need certified personal trainers to help you out, and if you don't want to read the stuff, you're not sure how to get started, just download the app, and it can tell you each day what to do, when to rest, and when to move on based on your feedback. And you can adjust at any time. Now to be fair, you might note that, oh, well this will throw off the cadence and make it a slightly longer. So yes, I would do one set, I would go walk for three minutes, and then you would come back, and then you would do another set of as many as you safely can or whatever you're aiming to hit that day. And yes, it does throw off the rhythm a little bit. It might be a little bit different than the benefits you read about, but you are getting quite a bit of benefit. This is all you're doing by adding resistance training, maybe some mobility training to your exercises. And if you do one set after each walk, that's six different exercise sets you can do. You could do like three different exercises that day, if not more. For only a few minutes more, maybe 35 to 40 minutes instead of 30 minutes, you're able to get the resistance training and the cardio and the walking benefits. That's honestly a very efficient effective workout, I would say, because you're basically making everything into like a super set. Okay, almost there, and this is perfect for one last set, because one thing that some people might want to do is you can combine the trend of rucking with this trend of interval walking. I think this might be upside down. Yep, it wasn't back upside down. I take no accountability. There was no big white arrow. And we haven't made a video about rucking yet, or I guess I would just call it weighted walking, but it has similar benefits to this interval walking training we've been talking about, because you're basically, again, adding slightly more resistance, you're getting a little bit more cardio required, getting a little bit more fiber recruitment. But on the other hand, especially depending on where you're walking, it can be slightly harder on you, because it's essentially like you're putting on weight temporarily. So this is not for everyone, especially if you are someone who may be on the heavier side, or you're trying to lose weight anyway. But I wouldn't worry about that too much, because a three to 400 calorie burn that we're adding to this is enough, if we do nothing else, and everything else is exactly the same, you don't eat more, you don't exercise more, it's enough to lose weight consistently over time. And if you're trying to lose weight, you're like, man, I don't want to miss out on the benefit of weighted walking. I would say this, the same four pull-ups, you are already doing weighted walking. And in fact, you have the weight attached to you, right? So I have to spend money on it. I think this was like $20. No, actually it was like $60. I spent $60 on this? Well, I should probably use this in more videos if I already spent the money for that. Maybe I will do a weighted walking video. But no, I mean that genuinely. If you are trying to lose weight, one potential benefit you have is you are already doing weighted walking. So if you think you can do like five pull-ups, and you're trying to lose weight, you have to wait to lose, congratulations. You're actually doing weighted pull-ups. So I'd spend money to have the weight attached to me. You have it pre-attached to you. But on the other hand, that is also another reason because we're talking to people of all different shapes and sizes here that you may want to be careful with any exercise, including walking. So you might hear this, I think, wow, it's low impact. Lots of people said it is good. Talk to your doctor, be careful. Because some people, especially ones who haven't exercised in a while or if you're on the heavier side or your joints are hurting a little bit, you might walk and then do the fast walking. And I'm like, man, I'm actually surprisingly sore. And then I don't want you to feel bummed out if you read about everyone else having good results. And you're like, man, maybe there's something wrong with me. But no, you're almost certainly not alone. Fitness is a journey and we all start somewhere. I'm gonna do my final lap here. All right, I believe that was the last lap. That was pretty cool. And it didn't take that long, even though the sun did set. If you are medically cleared for exercise and you're able to walk, you may want to give this a shot because it's pretty cool. And especially with its increasing popularity, the study happened a while ago, but there's an increasing amount of people being aware of this. I think this is something that'll be used by a lot of people. So you'll probably see maybe apps about it. Maybe we should add it to our app. But no, there's probably, you'll probably see other people talking about it. It's gonna be used from people just starting into fitness and for people that are very serious into fitness because a lot of those people are trying to lose a little bit of weight or dial in their calories a little bit. And this is one way where they can save 30 plus minutes a day. Something I would be curious about that I haven't looked that much into yet is how much this would increase appetite compared to regular walking. So the reason some sporty people, like people in general, like the gentle walking is because it's low impact, it's gentle, you get some cardio, and you burn calories for some people without an increased amount of appetite, which can help if they're trying to lose weight. But the extra fast walking, I wonder if that would increase appetite a little bit. Not entirely sure. I really enjoyed doing this video. Thank you so much for watching. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend. Found my keys and phone. I set them over there when it was still light and I had to look around for a few minutes.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.402680Z ===
