 Let's say you're working out but you're not making the progress you want. Your strength isn't really going up and your body doesn't look quite the way you want. If that's you, it's usually not just genetics. It could just be a few simple boxes that you haven't checked yet. So in this video, we'll walk through a short checklist together so you know exactly what box you can tick next. Hello, my friend and your brother Hampton from Hybrid Calisthenics. When you first start working out, fitness seems a lot more like a black box. You hear about kettlebells, keto, magic, weight loss, morning, bananas. And if it doesn't work, it seems to all get filed under everybody's different. We are different, but thankfully we have way more similarities than differences. Once you understand a handful of levers that always matter, then you can see why different plans work and what yours might be missing. We'll cover food, training, recovery, technique, and mindset. First question is, are you doing something consistently? Before we talk about protein or perfect form, we should start here. Ask yourself in the last two months how many weeks that get at least two or three workouts in. If the answer is, uh, some? That's okay. We've all been there. But your number one upgrade is probably going to be consistency, not complexity. Consistency is uber important and lays the foundation for everything else we do here. Two solid, repeatable sessions every week will beat the perfect six-day plan you only do for five days and then give up or change. So the first box in our checklist is two to three workouts per week for at least four weeks. If you're not there yet, this will probably be the biggest benefit you get from this video. Just pick a simple routine you actually have time and energy for and start going ham on it, pun intended, and getting those reps in. If you want a simple plan to be consistent with, we have a free one on our website. I'll mention it later. For now, if you're not consistent yet, distinct two to three workouts per week, that's your goal. Next question to ask yourself, what do you want from your routine and what are your fitness goals? If your main goal is strength and muscle, but your workout is 90% cardio with a single set of push-ups at the end, there might be a mismatch. And for main goals, feeling limber and mobile, but your workouts are just basic compounds with no warm-up, stretching, or full range of motion might be able to improve there too. You don't need a perfect plan. Just check two to four strength sessions a week if you want strength or muscle. One in two cardio sessions per week if you want more stamina and some kind of mobility or stretching sprinkled in if you want to feel better just moving through daily life. And if that roughly lines up with your goals and routine, then you can tick this box. Just a quick note, don't be afraid to put on some muscle even if your goal isn't to body build. You probably won't get just two bulk eats. Quite difficult to do that and it takes some time to really put on a lot of muscle. And having some extra muscle will help most fitness goals out there. This next one is a big one. It's simple to do, but if you don't do it, then you might not make nearly as much progress as you could, even if you get everything else right. You can ask yourself, on most days, am I eating enough protein for my goal? As usual, talk to your doctor before getting on a new exercise program or adjusting your food. These are general statements and may or may not apply to you. I used to think protein was a bit overhyped, like this magic powder that companies would sell you to make you feel better and feel more athletic. And while it is a little overhyped sometimes, I'll say this, your need for enough protein is not controversial. Well, in general, a lot of people trying to build muscle do well somewhere between 0.7 to 1 gram of protein per pound of goal body weight. That's about 1.5 to 2.2 grams per kilogram. I know that might sound like a lot. When I first read it, I was like, it's gotta be a typo. But the good news is that you usually don't have to overhaul your whole diet all at once. For a lot of you watching, simply adding one extra protein shake or one palm-sized serving of protein a day is enough to move you from not enough to pretty decent. By the way, you may have heard lower amounts. The lower amounts you hear recommended are usually baselines, but your ideal amount will depend on you, your training, and your goals. If you're at least in the ballpark for protein on most days, then you can check this box. And beyond protein, you also need the right amount of total food. I've asked before and most of you want to build some strength and muscle. That usually means a slight caloric surplus will help. Not stuffing yourself, but it's a bit more than your body uses, so it actually has material to build with. Your stomach should not have to hurt for you to eat enough. If you're struggling looking for some higher calorie drinks, like different milks. For others, I know the goal is to lose some weight. That usually means a slight deficit. Again, you don't have to starve yourself. It's a bit less than you bring in as your body taps into stored energy. The main idea is the way I'm eating aligned with my goals. Check this out. Since I first started making content, I gained about 25 pounds. It wasn't even my primary goal. I just did. And my training is not radically different. I didn't suddenly discover a secret exercise. The main difference is I started to eat more food. You ever wonder what happens if you train hard but you don't eat enough to grow? Well, you pretty much just don't grow. And after a point, you might stop or slow making substantial strength progress too. So your tiny checklist here is trying to gain muscle and for a slight surplus. A little more food consistently. Trying to lose some fat and for a slight deficit consistently. Reducing sodas and sugary drinks is low-hanging fruit for a lot of people. If you're just trying to maintain that eat roughly enough that your body weight is stable over a few weeks. If you don't want to lose or gain weight, like, I don't want to listen to this, that's fine. We make a ton of content just focus on push-ups and pull-ups and we'll continue to make that. But the key is for you to find something sustainable. Ideally, something enjoyable enough that you can reasonably do it pretty much forever, not just for two weeks. Next, are your sets hard and frequent enough to matter? You can ask, in my main sets, do I ever get close to that I really have to focus and push to finish this feeling? And am I doing that a few times a week for each major muscle group or movement that I'm trying to train? Some people tend to do a bunch of easy sets and never really get close to that challenging zone. Others do super heavy sets with only one or two reps or holding for a few seconds. While all of those do have their place, it can be hard to make long-term progress doing only those. The sweet spot is usually a small or moderate number of focused, challenging sets done consistently. Simple rule of thumb. For your big movements like push, pull, and squats, have at least a couple of sets per week where if you had Q, you could only do one to three more reps. You don't have to go to the point of injury, just to the point where you really have to concentrate to finish. And by the way, I like the one to three rep range too. It's how you learn a lot of calisthenics skills sometimes. But for a lot of you watching, at least 68 reps will help you practice the movement a bit more. If at least a couple of sets per week really make you focus to finish, then you can check this box. By the way, if you're watching this and you're like, I just want a routine where I can do this and get started, and you don't know about it, we have a free fitness routine on our website called the hybrid fitness routine at hybridcalisthenics.com. You can think of it as an exercise routine that meets you where you're at, that you can do with body weight, lets you adjust to your current ability, finds a variation that works with your current fitness level, and you can combine it with other things you do. Again, it's free and it's just on the website. And if you want a bit more structure, tracking, and guidance in your pocket, we also have the app version called the hybrid calisthenics app. It's based on these same ideas, then tells you exactly what to do when to rest every day, and when to move on based on your feedback. You don't need either of those to work through this checklist, but if you want it and you didn't know about it, then they are there for you. That's why we made them. Okay, the next checkpoint is technique, but it might not be what you think, because it's not necessarily perfect for just this question. Do I feel this more in the muscle than I'm trying to work, or in some random joint, or a different muscle? If your wrists are screaming during push-ups because they're bent way back, or your lower back is doing all of the work, and that causes you to have to stop earlier than you otherwise would have to, that's a sign there might be room for improvement. Don't get extra experience points for pushing through bad pain. Simple adjustments for things like push-ups. You can move your hands back or use a slight incline so your wrists aren't overly stretched, or you can use parallettes. If you're doing an exercise, you can shorten the range a bit if a deeper portion causes sharp pain. You can also assist, or you can choose an easier variation or add an adjustment so the limiting factor is the target muscle, not the weak link. The version that you can do safely over and over again is the one that builds the most progress. 7's checkpoint is recovery. Two questions. Am I sleeping enough to feel fully rested, or at least not a total zombie? And am I giving my muscles at least a little time to rest before hammering them again? I've noticed I feel and recover best when I sleep at least 30 minutes past that point of, okay, I've had enough. So that last little bit of sleep seems to really help on days where I'm feeling sore or a little bit iffy. I jokingly call it sleeping to failure. Try to minimize my hours in reserve. Completely anecdotal. You don't have to copy that exactly, but a lot of us do under sleep and are just used to it. If you're always cutting your sleep short, right when you feel okay, try giving yourself a little bit extra buffer when you can. And again, same with rest days. You don't have to be perfect. Life won't always cooperate. I get it. But if you never let your body catch up, then you may feel less amazing than you could. And feeling amazing is pretty good. And last checkpoint is, do you actually enjoy any of this? You can ask yourself, is there at least one part of my routine that I look forward to even a little? If you hate 100% of your routine, then you might eventually quit. If even 10% feel spun or satisfying, then you're much more likely to stick with it for years. This could be a favorite exercise, a short walk while listening to music, or checking off a little box when you finish your workout. Whatever makes you feel like your routine and not just a punishment. By the way, part of the reason for this checklist is so you can enjoy your routine more. Making progress is motivating. It can be fun. So our little checklist is, am I being consistent enough and doing enough? Does my routine match my goals? Am I fueling my goal with enough protein? Am I getting enough calories? And is the way I'm eating a line with my goals? Are my sets challenging enough? Often enough. Do I have intentional technique that loads the muscles I want, not other muscles or random joints? Am I getting enough real sleep and rest? At least when I can. And is there at least one part of my routine that I genuinely like? You don't have to adjust everything all at once. I know there are some preferences, like some people don't want to talk about food, don't want to think about it. They only want you to push up some pull-ups here, and some people only want some easier workouts or some very intense workouts. And if what you're doing is working for you and you're making progress, by all means, keep doing it, that is awesome. This checklist is here if you ever want to make some adjustments or try some different things out. And if one thing sticks out to you, I would just start with that, and you can adjust the others as you go. But I found that for our audience and most of the people watching here, that if they're not making the progress they want, the thing they're missing is usually one of the fundamentals and one of the things we mentioned here. So hopefully it can work for you. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.