 Hey friends, this is a new style of content where I emphatically try to debate different sides of a fitness topic to help us have a deeper understanding of the issue. There are more details in the description and I give my actual opinion at the end. Okay, so there are several reasons why morning workouts are better. Okay, they can boost mood and energy levels. They can help you be more consistent. Your workouts might be stronger because you're starting them early in the day. Look, just let me read out all of them. They can boost your metabolism. They can boost your metabolism. They can help you sleep better. They can improve discipline and mental toughness. They can reduce stress and anxiety. They can help you control your appetite. And they can improve cardiovascular health. Okay, so while most of what you said was technically true, you're leaving out some context that might be important for people listening. Like me, yeah. What's the context then? Also, why are we in color now? Because things aren't as black and white as you are making them sound. Also because I illustrated Yvonne sent in different versions for us to try. Oh, I love her. Same. Same. Same. Let's start with your first point, that morning exercise can help mood and energy levels, right? Doesn't this apply to exercise in general, not necessarily morning workouts? Huh. Yes, exercise at any time is known to boost mood and energy. But wouldn't you want this at the beginning of your day rather than the end, closer to when you sleep? You might, but evening exercise has actually been shown to not make sleep worse, like some people might imagine, as long as it's not done within an hour of sleeping. In fact, it might make it better. Well, morning exercise has also been shown to help sleep quality, by the way. And it may help some people align their circadian rhythms. Circadian rhythms. Those are the bugs with the big eyes that go like wah wah wah wah wah, right? I think those are cicadas. I can see how you'd be confused. Either way, sleep is only one aspect of mood and energy benefits. Wouldn't you want more energy during the day? Yeah, about that. What type of exercise are you thinking of? What do you mean? Well, I feel like the people who say that exercise is energizing for them usually mean a lighter workout, like jogging. But if you're doing heavy resistance training, especially an intense leg day, you can feel pretty wiped for a bit afterwards. Well, that's true, but the fatigue is short term. You don't always have to train to failure either, which is what that study seems to analyze. Great point, Hampton. But you brought up the energy boost. If someone needs to do something mentally demanding right after their workout, like a creative meeting or taking an exam, it might actually have a negative impact, even if the fatigue is temporary. I can see that point. But by the same logic, they might have something important to do in the evening. See, we still tend to assume that everyone works a 9 to 5 for some reason, but there are millions of night shift workers and people who work in the evening. Oh, I saw in this Tumblr meme that wondered if this was because our ancestors took turns watching the camp. Like the night owl people watch the camp so the morning people wouldn't get eaten by bears. I mean, maybe? But regardless of when they wake up, I feel like it's hard to argue that something you prioritize by doing earlier or first thing in the day won't improve consistency. I actually agree with your point there. If exercise is earlier on your to-do list, you're probably more likely to do it consistently because you build a routine of exercising before you do anything else. On the surface, anyway. What do you mean? Well, we're assuming that the listener is a morning person. Like you just mentioned, some people might wake up in the afternoon if they finish work at, say, 11pm. That's a fair point, Hampton. So in this context, by morning, we can refer to the first few hours after someone wakes up. I feel like that might change some of the benefits and drawbacks and some might be impacted by daytime and nighttime. Possibly. But some people may not feel energized shortly after waking up. You mentioned that some people have stronger workout performance in the morning. At least some studies show that not everyone shares this experience. In fact, evening workouts sometimes have better performance and greater muscle gain. For some people, yes. But that same study you're referencing also shows that some people respond better to morning workouts. Additionally, while strength training is often considered to be better in the afternoon, we could- Yes. Hang on, you're not afternoon Hampton either. You're evening Hampton. I guess you can be afternoon Hampton. Woo! Hang on, hang on. Some research has shown that after consistently training in the morning, we can improve morning performance just as much as afternoon performance. Maybe even more. Why do different sources show different results? I'm not entirely sure, but probably factors like differences in genetics, workout goals, lifestyle, things like that. I think it's possible that morning workouts are inherently better once you adapt to them, all else equal. Some people tend to think that, but I'm not so sure. Well hang on, if different people have different results under different circumstances, wouldn't the best way be for someone to try different times and see what works best for them? Yes, yes. But it's probably good for them to know the potential benefits of both so they have an idea of what to expect. Are you fairly representing all sides? No, I'm totally picking and choosing so my side can win. Yeah, same. You're the one that's supposed to listen to us and give us a fair summary. I am? Yeah, see, clearly you need the morning exercise to build some mental toughness and discipline. There's a reason boot camps and militaries do this. That's what my dad said. He was in the military. Same with my dad. Huh, my dad was in the military too. What are the odds? You're not a wonder. But my dad would also say that many of the things the military does aren't necessarily healthy for you. They're used to prepare you for things like combat and make you more effective and efficient at the things they assign you. So forcing yourself to wake up early might be good for your discipline, but chronic sleep deprivation is also bad for you. Right, but you're conflating waking up early with sleep deprivation. If you go to bed earlier, you can get plenty of sleep. Some people struggle with that, but they can adapt if they're consistent. So you keep mentioning that. While it's true, it might be harder for some people than others. And that's what I mean. While I agree with many of your points, I feel like you're bringing up some general exercise benefits, along with effects that only benefit certain goals. Like exercise in general reduces stress and anxiety, not just morning workouts. On the other hand, suppressing hunger hormones might help if someone's trying to lose weight. Some people don't want to lose weight. Or they might even struggle to gain weight. Last year I gained like 15 pounds. I got some comments saying I looked more muscular. My training was mostly the same, but a few times a week I ate an extra burrito bowl. That's nice Hampton. Good job Hampton. Thanks. But anyway, I see what you mean. What do you feel about the cardio benefits? It may be better for some people in the morning. That's a good point. However, some studies have mentioned the opposite. So what's the consensus? Is it better to exercise in the morning, evening, afternoon? Honestly, I'm not sure anymore. I think it's an ongoing discussion. I'm not sure either. But I must say Hampton, you are looking very handsome today. I was going to say you are too. Ram. So my takeaway from everything we've explored is that you should exercise at the time you feel the most energized. And you might also want to consider when you're most regularly able to work out and choose that. There might be a slight consistency benefit if you're able to exercise early in the day or at least prioritize your workout. However, try to be adaptable because most likely not every day will be the same. And while it's possible there are times of day like morning, afternoon and evening where certain workouts might be more effective, there is not known to be any time of day where workouts are not effective. So any time of day you choose will still be effective as long as you train consistently and eat and live to support your goals. We might want to be careful that the pursuit of perfection doesn't get in the way of us actually making progress. There's a free fitness routine on our website that can work for almost any fitness level so you can start today. There's a book or ebook if you like books. There's a fitness app in beta if you like apps. Cards if you like the drawings. And support from certified personal trainers if you need help. I hope this can help. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day my friend.