 visitoritoritor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor visitor vis mindset shift that might help you avoid the second category and fall towards the first one. That's the one that's better and more fun. And this simple but important mindset shift is around how we approach consistency. And there's a small but very important difference in how people view the idea of consistency. Just about everyone agrees it's very important in fitness and disciplines and practices in general. There's this idea that we have to be consistent to some extent in order to succeed, which I agree with. I think that's true. However, there's a certain way that some people view consistency. And these are types of people that usually have progress that eventually slows or stalls. And that is that they view consistency as just doing the same thing over and over again. And that is not necessarily inherently a bad thing. It's not necessarily a bad definition for consistency. And in fact, within fitness, especially, there's an idea of repetition. Literally, we're doing the reps within the sets. So we want to repeat what we're currently doing. So it gets a little bit more confusing in fitness. But let's zoom out just for a little bit for a quick example, where we take someone trying to learn an instrument, let's say the guitar, and they play the same scale over and over and over again. There's two types of people, one plays the same scale over and over again, the other one plays the same scale over and over again. However, some people know intuitively that when they play it, they're trying to find small little epiphanies, small lessons, small efficiencies to make that better, rather than just repeating, doing the same thing over and over and over again. Both will yield results at first because our brain, our body is learning the movement, we're learning the skill. But eventually, you still have to add some change, some challenge to push yourself slightly on the edge of your comfort zone in order to make progress. And just to finish up the example, eventually after you master that scale, or after that song, or after this pattern, then you may want to challenge yourself with a different one that's also on the edge of your ability, also on the edge to where you're not fully comfortable with it, but with practice over time, you can get comfortable with it. If you just do the same thing over and over again, there's going to be a point where you no longer make much progress, if any at all. But hang on a second, in fitness, and this is where it gets a little bit interesting, you can do the same thing over and over again and still get progress. With something, a skill, like learning an instrument, if you do the same thing over and over again, with no intent to improve your technique or change your patterns somewhat, even in small ways, you will eventually probably stop making progress or your progress will slow significantly. But with fitness, not necessarily so. In fact, there's a lot of discussion around people not changing their program. Some people will tell you not to do that because changing too much, the argument goes, is how you lose out on valuable improvements because you keep flitting and floating here and there and never really getting into a pattern. As a result, you never really get good at anything. Some of you may have already heard this and you're like, well, why is Hampton's video contradicting this other video? But it's not necessarily. This is the interesting nuance because let's say you're doing something like push-ups. There are many small tweaks to push-ups that can have surprisingly large differences in results over time. Having your hands a bit close or higher could make the movement a lot more, say, tricep dominant or arm dominant, which is okay. You'll still get better at that specific movement. You'll still make progress and your triceps in this case and your chest and your body will grow from that. And that's your goal, to get better at push-ups, especially that specific movement of push-ups. That's great. There's nothing necessarily wrong with that. In fact, I say tricep dominant, but sometimes the limiting point would be your elbow. So you're not really quite pushing a muscle as much as you could and you're stopping because of your elbow. As a result, you don't have that much muscle growth. That is a thing with some exercises. And again, that's not necessarily bad. That might be your goal. And if so, that's great. But you see, if someone's goal for doing those push-ups is to body build, is to increase the size of their muscles, then they might feel like they're getting no progress. They have still made progress, but not towards the goal that they actually want. This is the nuance. Consistency in fitness will yield results, but they'll yield results at what you practice. Not necessarily the things you want if you're doing them in the wrong way. So to connect those two metaphors, if you're learning guitar, you are learning to make your playing more smooth, more efficient, more in tempo, more on key, which are generally desirable things in playing. But in fitness and push-ups, you have to identify your goal and then work towards that with small changes. Not even just technique, there's other things, but small changes in technique. For example, if you're trying to grow your triceps, if you're trying to just get better at faster pushing or more push-ups, or you want to push heavier weight, or you want to improve joint health, these are different things. And there are slight tweaks we can make to work towards that goal. And that would be the comparison. That would be what's comparable to improving your guitar technique is to find small differences in movement technique to work towards that goal. And you can watch videos of high-level bodybuilders and athletes being coached. So this still happens at the beginning level and at the very highest levels. We're always still learning, which I think is really cool. So to reinforce what I'm saying, we want to be consistent, yes, but consistent not just in our action, but our intent to improve. And that small change can lead to a big difference over time. However, there's a very important detail that I want to add here, and that is for a lot of beginners, but not everyone, you want to balance early on your consistency with enough change. Because it's quite possible you're going to make larger changes early on as you figure out what's working. Those examples I gave of how wide your hands are during push-ups, or how low you go, or how fast you do them, these are relatively small tweaks. But there are some times when you need entirely different exercises when you realize you have different goals. And by the way, don't feel too stressed over that because a lot of people, their goals change over time. But let's say you're doing push-ups for a while and your body just isn't developing the way you want. You're still getting more muscular and that's cool. But a few months down the road, you're like, well, I actually really want to grow my upper chest and push-ups really just aren't doing that. So I can try incline press or decline push-ups if I want to do body weight. And you can do harder variations of that. And even beyond exercise, there are things like how we eat and how we sleep that can have a massive impact on our goals. Especially if we're trying to bodybuild, you will need to have some understanding of your macro is most likely. And especially if your goal is to lose weight or gain weight, how and what you eat is going to be very important to that. And some would say even more so than exercise. And all of that is still encapsulated in consistency. It is still important to be consistent. You can do all of that and still show up every day and do the work or however often you want to work out. But it's the idea of every day going in to practice and try to improve and not just coming in and doing the same thing over and over and over again. Now, some people can do that. Some people, they luck into finding a good pattern of workout early on and they just stay locked in. And these people usually have great results early on. Either they have good coach or they just have good instincts on what to do. And certainly whether or not that's you, when you find a good pattern of workouts, because even after you have a good workout that you like, you usually still oscillate a little bit. There's bulking, losing weight, muscle cycles, different things you want to experiment with, small tweaks. But after you have a pattern that you like, then you can really lock in and be very consistent both on practice and doing exactly those things. And then when you find that trail and you're making lots of progress, then you're great. Then you'll suddenly make a lot of progress and people will be like, whoa, how are you doing this? And then you can work on teaching others. But sometimes it takes a little bit to get to that point. Don't get too discouraged because you can get there. And lastly, some people will have the question, why are some people just more attuned to this? Why do they find it so easily, whereas other people may struggle? And you may also phrase the question as in, well, how will I know if something's good? It seems really complicated. And this comes down partially just to body knowledge, body wisdom. Some people know their body just perhaps a little bit more intuitively than others to where they go, hmm, front squats not really working for me. They may not know like words like, oh, it's like wrist mobility or my, my pinky is a little bit too long. They just like, yeah, this doesn't really feel right. I'm going to go back squat. Okay. High bar, low bar. Hi. Okay. Got it. And they're in and they feel it and they like it and they keep making progress. Others, they need a little bit of guidance to where they think they're making progress. But like, hmm, is that how it's supposed to feel? And these people usually benefit from a coach. And if you can't afford one or you don't have one wherever you are, then you can try to find some people that you trust online or wherever you can ask them questions and you can discuss. In that case, there is still a little bit of their advice. You have to filter it through. Is this working for me or is it not working for me? Have I given it enough of a chance? Does it make sense? And some people may wonder very understandably. So why are we still trying to find this problem? We've had, we've been humans have been exercising for thousands of years, right? Why don't we have this scientifically proven system that works for everyone? And I think there's a reason different athletes of different sports will do different workouts. And partially it's because we have but we also have different bodies that are very similar, but work slightly differently enough to where some people will prefer different exercises over others. And even within that, even if you use a very good workout program designed by someone you trust that has been where you want to go. Once again, there are small tweaks in technique that you might be doing. Small tweaks to your lifestyle, small tweaks to how you're eating and how you're sleeping. So you can be consistent, not just in your practice, but your desire to improve that practice. There's that famous Bruce Lee quote where he says something like, I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times. It's a great example of this. And I'm glad I thought of it because I, and a lot of people watching this could probably kick something 10,000 times a day. Just do it very fast. Like that's my kicking sound effect. And the next day we probably really wouldn't be that much better at kicking it. Certainly not enough to earn the kicking respect of Bruce Lee. I'm just guessing because there's a big difference between doing something 10,000 times and doing something 10,000 times each time with the intent to improve, even if just a little bit. So big changes are small changes, depending on where you're at. After you find out how your journey is supposed to feel, then you can really lock in, make a ton of progress and help people if you want, which I think is pretty cool. Have a beautiful day, my friend. There's a free fitness routine on this website, a book version. If you like books or eBooks, a fitness app in beta and support from certified personal trainers. If you need help. Oh, and let me know if you like the lights. you