 I've seen and answered a lot of fitness questions over the years, and there seems to be a recurring issue that I've noticed is keeping people stuck to the point where they get demotivated and they eventually give up. And it leads back to what I think might be a fundamental issue with how we approach calisthenics and body weight training. But thankfully there is a simple solution which I'll talk about in this video. The issue is with our progressions. And if you've done any kind of calisthenics or are familiar with gymnastics at all, then you may have tried something and gotten stuck, on an exercise trying to build up on an exercise trying to build up to what you want. And just real quick, if you're not familiar with progressions, they're actually one of the best things about calisthenics. So the idea that if you can't do a pushup yet, you can first start up with something like incline pushups, and then you can go down to knee pushups. But when you try to do full pushups, you go, you suddenly stall and you're making a lot of progress, which was motivating before, but suddenly you try to do something and you aren't able to do it. And that can be frustrating and you get stuck and there might be something like, well, there's something wrong with you. And I like, I'm just not built for this. I'm going to try something else instead. And to be clear, you can try something else. And that's great. But it is sad because there seems to be an issue with not just progressions, but how we approach them. And here's what I mean. So if we think about something like weightlifting, one of the best things about weightlifting is also its progression system. Now we don't usually think of weightlifting as having progressions, but I would argue it actually has hundreds of progressions in the form of small differences in weight. So like pretend these are closer together, but effectively you start with a weight that you can lift maybe say six times, and you practice until you can do it say nine times, and then you make the weight a little bit heavier, and then maybe back down to six times and you're like, okay, cool, I'll practice that until I go up to nine times and you repeat that's effectively double progression strength training, double progression because you progress in the number of reps you can do. And then you progress in the amount of weight that you're lifting. So two different things. And if you followed any kind of bodyweight routine, you might realize, well, wait a second, instead of doing six to nine reps, if I'm using knee pushups to build up to full pushups, I don't necessarily go for six reps, I go for like at least 25 if not more. And even then, I still might not be able to do a full pushup. And for a lot of people, if that becomes the issue for you, a potential solution is just to do more reps, if you can't quite move on at six reps, try doing more, and you will still get stronger. And eventually maybe you'll progress in the amount of reps that you do enough to where you can move on to a harder variation, which is equivalent to weight there. So it's still double progression strength training. And to be clear, that system does work and it has worked for millions, if not billions of people over time. And we have a free routine on our website showing you how to build up. But I realized a lot of people had questions with that. So we made an app to walk you through building up the pushups, building up the pull ups, building up the squats and beyond. And we're about to add custom workouts. Super excited about that. Check it out if you think can help. It's on iOS and Android, possibly web soon. So you can just go to a website and find it and use it. Let me know if you want that. But as you may realize, or you may have run into already in your own fitness journey, there's a point where you might get stuck, right? So a famous one is knee pushups to pushups. So something that some people may struggle with, depending on a few factors is they might think, well, if I can do a lot of knee pushups, but I can't yet do a full pushup yet. And I'm just kind of stuck there. Maybe I'm not built for this. That tends to be where a lot of people kind of level off and they think, eh, because they're not seeing progress. So they get demotivated. And some people say, well, you need more discipline. Go. I kind of see that, but consider this option too. And if you're slightly more advanced into like the street workout or performative, I mean, in a good way, or static hold calisthenics, then your example might be tuck planche to advanced tuck planche. A lot of people get stuck there. They're like, well, I can do this tuck planche really well, but advanced tuck, not even close, not even a second. I can't do protraction. I can't do anything. Don't worry. You're not alone. But as you may realize, this issue kind of makes sense, right? Because as we get stronger and as we improve, then our progress will start to slow down. And this happens in calisthenics and happens a lot of different things. As we get closer to what's possible, according to our genetic ability, and we get closer to what's possible, according to physics and nature, then our progress might slow down. So while you might be able to curl 20 pounds enough times to get to 40 pounds, I think a lot of people can do that. And you might be able to do enough knee pushups to get to full pushups. We start to run into issue taking these massive leaps, because what we're doing with calisthenics is something that very few people would want to do in weight training, right? Which is the difference in weight that you're lifting between knee pushups and full pushups is fairly substantial. If it wasn't, then you would be able to go from knee pushup to full pushups between six and nine reps. But no, you usually need more if you're working your way up. So that might be a difference of, depending on your weight, 30, 40 pounds, maybe 50 pounds, maybe more. Someone's probably done the calculation on that before, but I would say probably something like 30% difference, right? It's quite substantial when in weight training, you're supposed to move up by like 5, 10 pounds, maybe even less. And so without going too much into it, a simple solution to that is to add more steps, right? So there's usually a step in between, but we all kind of know the famous ones, right? Like wall pushups are pretty well known, knee pushups are well known, incline pushups, full pushups. But then we don't really think of stuff in between. And certainly building up to a one-arm pushup or again, like planche pushups and stuff, there aren't really as many steps in between as we need for quite a large jump. And we usually try to make up with that with volume, which is cool. That's good in its own way, but it probably isn't the most efficient and effective. So just to use an example that a lot of people may face here is the knee pushup. You know, if you want a way to get closer to the full pushup, then we need something in between the difficulty of that. And I actually like the example of lowering in a full pushup, coming up in a knee pushup, because we can usually pretty much always lower more than we can raise. That could be one example of a progression, because then we get the benefits of a negative full pushup, and then we're still doing the concentric with the knee pushup. And you can also use like isometric holds, and you can use bands and things like that. But then we run into another issue, which is that in calisthenics, we approach it differently than weight training. I know they have a lot of comparisons, but there seem to be more goal exercises that stand like a monolith. And you're like, man, I want to get there. And everything between you and that spot is kind of like an uncomfortable, not super happy in between stage, right? So we kind of have this in weightlifting too, through the plates. So like there's a reason why 45, 135, 225, 315, 405, these things stand out to people. And if you weightlift or you have weightlifting friends, then you might hear them use those. I'm like, well, why are they random? It's the amount of plates, 45-pound plates that are on each side. So just the bar would be 45 pounds if you're using kind of a standard barbell. One 45-pound plate on each side would be 135. Two would be 225, and then three on each side would be 315. And that's great, and it does feel good to be at that spot. But after you get to that spot, you're like, cool, I finally managed to do 225 or 315. But then you usually don't want to stay there. You're like, eh, I'll move on. But when you get to a pull-up or a one-arm pull-up or like a planche especially, everything before that point doesn't feel great until you're there because that's very much a goal exercise. And then you kind of want to stay there depending on who you are, right? So after someone can do a one-arm pull-up, they usually are like, well, I need to add on. I need to do it with a water bottle and then 5 pounds and then 10 pounds. You can, and that's great, but it's a little bit less common, especially with planches. People, like, I don't see that many weighted planches. Granted, it's already pretty difficult by itself. But these really do stand out to the point where you may not feel comfortable doing something until you get to your goal exercise. And doing something like a squat, the difference between assisting between 5 pounds of help and 10 pounds of help and 20 pounds of help gets pretty difficult to quantify. So yes, you could assist incrementally more, assist incrementally less. And it feels different than weights. So the issue is we need more progressions, in between progressions with calisthenics. And it would really help if they were simpler to quantify. If they were simpler to measure. So what should we do? And the answer depends on who you are and how you work and what makes you tick. Because for some people, just hearing that is enough. I'm like, okay, so I'm not stuck. There's nothing wrong with me. And looking back, I actually have made some progress. I'm still on the same progression. But I just need to carry that a little bit further, increase the reps, and I'll be able to move on to the next side. That's pretty cool. Or just try the new one a little bit. Because as we try a new skill, sometimes we learn the movement or the hold better. And if that's not quite you, you're like, well, maybe I can just video myself. You don't have to show anyone. But I'll video myself doing each exercise session. And then I'll watch back. And then whenever I feel stuck, I will compare my progress. And you can just upload it to the cloud or your computer or an external drive if you're running out of space. I'll compare it to my sets a few weeks ago. And sometimes that will really be enlightening. I'm like, wow, interesting. So, okay. So while I didn't think I improved, I am just much more mobile. I am much stronger and much more stable throughout the movement. So I actually have made quite a lot of progress. I didn't think I got from 15 reps to 15 reps. But back then those reps were sloppy. And now I've improved and I didn't even realize. That's one way to simply apply this. Another way is you can add weight to exercises. Try to think of an example. Because it would be pretty unusual to build up from a knee pushup to a full pushup using weight. You definitely could. Maybe just with a backpack or something. You just add water bottles. Something like that to make sure it's safe and stable. But a clearer example that's more commonly used is building up from a pullup to a water arm pullup. And people often use weighted pullups to build up there. So if you're not quite sure, like, man, I'm not making a lot of progress. Maybe consider returning to a weighted version. It doesn't have to be one-to-one. I know we get better at the skill we train, but we're still making progress with that. And if you go from not being able to do weighted pullups, building up to 50 pounds weighted, 100 pounds weighted, then you probably will be closer to the one-arm pullup. Especially if you combine that with something that's more similar to the movement. So your brain can learn the pattern. It doesn't have to be weights. I just want to emphasize that because you might not have weights. And once again, you can use bottles. You can use just something that you can measure or quantify. So with building up to a one-arm pullup. So when you talk about the assisted one-arm pullup like this or one-hand pullup, which I think sounds cool, but maybe it gets kind of confusing. What do you want to measure? It's not necessarily effort because it's a little bit harder to write down, but you just want to try to maybe maximize effort, but change the leverage or the amount you can help even at full effort. So grabbing here, a simple thing is you can use maybe a piece of tape or something. And you're like, oh, I grabbed here. Next time I'll grab down here after I'm able to get to my set of reps. Interesting. I can't assist as much even trying at full effort. And then after that, I'll move over here. So just like you mark it. I don't want to say a pen because probably not great for you, but you know, some way to where you can say, okay, this is where it was last time. Here it is here. Maybe you can take a photo of where you're holding it. And that's one way to measure. You want measurable progress. Here is the name of the game. And I already knew this, but it's recently been reinforced to me, both with data that I saw from the backend of our app. So a lot of people are not stuck, but they're still doing the first few progressions rather than the more advanced ones, which makes sense. There's more people trying to use that. And probably people who use a home workout app, they probably want something more tailored to them. So that makes sense. But I was in my mind, I was thinking of all these, oh, I can add all these exercises and stuff when people may just need help getting up to their goal exercise. And also I messaged a friend who is a fitness author and he's an associate. And I asked, well, millions of people have read your books. What would you change now that, you know, in the past 10 or 20 years that you've written your books about calisthenics? And he said, well, I would basically add more progressions. He mentioned things like variety and stuff that I could talk about in a different video, but he would add more progressions in between, like 10 progressions. Why not 20? Why not 30? And I was like, wow, that's a really good point. Because what is the downside of having that? Not a whole lot because you can skip them if you want. But if you have them as an option and you legitimize them in your mind, then you will feel less stuck. You will know when you're making progress. You'll be able to quantify that. Look back and go like, I am better and cooler than I thought. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend. So in case it wasn't clear, that's one way I want to improve the routine and I'll be working on that. Thank you.