Most people can't do that many push-ups yet, but even training with them a few times a week can build good strength and muscle for many people. Even if you just start with a variation you can do, like a wall push-up, incline push-up, or knee push-up. Bob's your uncle. But hang on, Bob. Those push-ups a few times a week are a bit easier said than done, right? In fitness, it's commonly said that only 50% of people will stick to an exercise habit long term. And 50% actually seems quite high to me. So, great job if that's one of you. I think the actual stats will depend on who's being studied. But there is a mindset shift that could help you stick to things longer, do more push-ups, be more fit, and perhaps even be more cool. Coolness not guaranteed, but it might seem kind of silly to me at first until I thought of it less as a mindset hat that I can put on and more of different ways to build up to that mindset. You've probably already heard of the idea of a growth mindset. It's basically the belief that one's abilities can be changed with hard work, time, and practice, and it's often contrasted against a fixed mindset, which is basically the opposite. the idea that we're born with these abilities and they can't be changed or changed very much with time and practice. And there are some details around that, but it was popularized by Stanford professor Carol Dwek, which is awesome. But the reason that might sound silly to some people is because there's a reaction some might have where it's like, well, that sounds great. That is awesome. Why wouldn't we all want that first mindset of sunshine, rainbows, and growth and improving over time rather than being stuck and staying the same? And if it is so powerful and everyone knows about a growth mindset then why aren't we all superstar rocket scientists prodigy llama wranglers and I think in my opinion that it is because we have an idea that we can just simply shift into this mindset like bodies have to be built but a mindset can be adopted at any time when really I think it's more about the mindset towards the mindset where we can build this mindset over time quite strategically but also fairly simply so I want to share three things that can help you build a growth mindset towards doing more push-ups, and most can be applied towards fitness in general, but I'll leave some stuff specific for push-ups at the end because I know some people really like push-ups. It's also useful to note that growth mindset does have some push back in that some people think it's not always applicable or helpful, and I can see those points. But in this particular context, I just want to share some methods that may help some people build and maintain the idea that push-up progress is possible and fitness progress is possible just in case I can help their progress. And the first is that you can try to give yourself an early win to boost motivation and confidence. And when it comes to push-ups, this is why I keep repeating myself and encouraging people to start with wall push-ups or incline push-ups in a progression they can do confidently and safely and work that until they're strong enough to move on. And then they can move on to things like knee push-ups and then full push-ups down, knee push-ups up, full push-ups down, and then if they want, they can move on to full push-ups. And there's a question of like, well, why not just keep trying to do the push-ups? Can't you make progress that way? And you sometimes can. You sometimes can, but it's a little bit harder to tell. And I want people to see that first time they exercise and they come back maybe a week later or a next session later and like, "Wow, I can do more reps. Wow, now I can do an incline push-up." Whereas it might be harder to tell if you aren't anywhere near close to a full push-up. even getting 20% stronger, which is huge, by the way, you might still not be able to do a full push-up, even though you have gotten quite a bit stronger. So, to use a more extreme example, if you're trying to lift a,000 lbs, and you just go and you keep trying several times a week, week by week, months by months, and years, you're probably not going to see it budge. Unless you have some other way to measure it, you're going to think you're staying the same, even though you might actually be getting stronger. You might be increasing your isometric strength. And really the only sureer sign of progress is when you're getting pretty darn close to it and you would see it budge a little bit. Whereas if you just trained up with easier increasing weights, you'd be like, "Oh, cool. I went from 100 lb to 150, 150 to 200 and so on." And that might have encouraged you and given you motivation to keep practicing and now you might be quite strong. And you some people say in fitness, well, you can't rely on motivation, right? You can only discipline is required to achieve most things in life. And I get that and I've said this before, but it's pretty important for you to establish motivation or some kind of direction early on that your discipline, that your hard work can go somewhere. And to use more of an extreme example, I could hit my head against a tree and that would require discipline. I wouldn't feel motivated to do that, but I could use discipline to commit myself to doing that for years and years and years. And what would I get? Right? Unless I have some kind of reinforcement early on, some kind of belief, this mindset that we're building that that will lead somewhere good, it's going to be harder and arguably not worth it. So, it's good to have an early driver of motivation early on and then later on when you feel tired, when you're like, "Yeah, I don't need it." But you know that working hard can get you closer to where you want and you'll appreciate yourself long term. That's how I blend motivation and discipline. In the case of push-ups is finding the right progression, either easier ones or if you're already quite good at push-ups, you might want to experiment a little bit with a harder progression so you can come back to push-ups later and do more because those seem easier by comparison. And many of you already know this, but if you want plenty of progressions to build up the push-ups and beyond, we have a free fitness routine on our website. We have certified personal trainers here to help you with your fitness goals if you need help. And we have an app that we spend a lot of time building to walk you through those progressions. as in you can put in how many reps you do each set and it will track that and when you reach a certain threshold and it thinks you can move on, it will move you on to a harder progression. So you can do the move in without the thinking, but you may still want to do the thinking because of a section I have later on. And the other one is pretty simple and it might seem kind of obvious, but you want some kind of way to measure your actual progress in fitness or push-ups. And you might think, well, don't I already do that by counting the reps? So question, how good do you think we, as in humans, are at measuring fitness progress? Opinions will differ, but I think we could stand to be better because think about the idea of repetitions. It is kind of an abstract rough way to count your actual progress, how much you've actually improved your strength, muscle, endurance, and so on. But if you just go online to the comment sections and look up like push-up competition, there's all kinds of different details that can affect your reps, how fast you do them, your form, like the angles of your arms and how your body is shaped. And people are always arguing over like, "No, those weren't real reps." These are real reps. So, we realized that push-up reps and reps in general are not really the perfect way to measure progress. There's a lot of other factors that might apply. And I actually saw this little device someone was showing um a while ago and it was a way to measure force production throughout a set. And a lot of people said, "Well, that this seems like too much." And it might be. It might be too overly technical. But having some way to do that really could help. But a simpler way for now until we have access to this technology, simple, affordable, easy access, is to film yourself. And you don't have to show anyone, but film your reps even if you feel like the reps are the same. Because when you're feeling demotivated, you're like, "Man, I've been stuck at five reps for a while now." And you look back two months ago and you're like, "Wow, my reps were a lot less stable. I fixed some form issues where I was shaking and my legs weren't stable. Wow. So, I'm doing five reps now, but it's a lot more stable looking." Again, it's not perfect. Now, the nuance around that I want to add them to each thing is that first of all, some people don't want to measure. They don't want to measure reps. They just want to measure how they feel, which is fine. So, I saw a while ago someone give the fitness advice that how you feel after an exercise set is by far the most important metric and I thought about that and I don't know who came up with it. I've seen it in a few different places. I can see that and it can be a very good metric if that's what you want to improve. So, this is more from like a softer view of fitness and I don't mean that in a bad way. It's just more of a gentler approach. If you want to improve how you feel, then tracking how you feel after each set can be very important because that's your goal is to improve how you feel. However, the thing you measure and try to improve will usually be the thing that improves. So, if you want to improve how you feel, that is awesome, but your push-up reps may not go as fast because you may not be optimizing for that as much. Just keep that in mind. Look, a train. And the second probably more important context is that yes, what we measure and actively try to improve is usually what improves. Goodart's law states that when a measure becomes the target, then it ceases to be a good measure. And what this means in the context of fitness and push-ups is that we often use reps to track our progress. And this can help us get more strong, more fit, and build more endurance. However, think about this. If your only goal is to get to say a 100 push-ups, if that's your only goal, then there are any number of things you can do to get to that point, right? You can flow around, you can reduce your range of motion, you can do them faster, and you can be the exact same fitness level you are now and suddenly get to 100 reps, but you haven't really built that. So, from here, what we realize is that the reps are supposed to measure our actual progress. We're trying to build strength and muscle and fitness rather than push-up reps. Does that make sense? We the reps have to measure our actual goal rather than be the actual target. And this can keep us on track to keep making progress. So, it's like the mindset about the mindset within the mindset. And the third and last thing I'll mention here for helping you build a growth mindset for doing more push-ups is something you're probably already doing, and that is to keep learning. So, we've heard some stories from our friends or read online where someone went to a gym or a personal trainer and unfortunately despite a lot of hard work, they didn't quite get the results they wanted, right? Maybe not their fault, maybe not the personal trainer's fault. They might have worked very hard. The personal trainer might have been knowledgeable, but for some reason, it just didn't work out, right? And that can be very demotivating. So, we want to do the opposite. And my question when I think of that is if you somehow knew everything that was happening in your body while you're resting, while you're exercising, do you think you could change that outcome? Do you think you could get closer to your goal? And I would say yes. Right? So, if we know how to fix something and we're given the tools to fix it, then we're much more motivated and more suited and much more able to be able to fix that. Now, this can be easier said than done. Of course, even with some personal trainers that I know, they may not know everything that is involved with motivating someone and keeping them exercising because it encapsulates everything from psychology to biomechanics to physiology. Like, hm, I yelled at this person and they were very motivated and I yelled at this person and they quit. Hm, I wonder why. Right? And it's like, what happens if you exercise but you don't get enough protein or enough calories? What happens if you exercise and get enough to eat, but you don't really get any sleep? These are questions that a lot of people are not completely sure of. And there's a lot to start learning. But if you start picking the things and choosing and learning small little bites of things that are relevant to you, like, hm, I'm working on my elbow right now. Oh, cool. That's how an elbow works. Then we can better understand how our inputs translate into output. So how we exercise can bring us closer to our goals. And that even by itself, even in small bits, can be very motivating and help you build a growth mindset. But of course, a lot of that hinges on me being able to convince you that learning can help you build a growth mindset. And that can actually help you do more push-ups and get more fit. So, you need a growth mindset about learning about learning. So, it's actually a mindset within a mindset within a No, I'm just kidding. You can pick and choose the ones that work for you. But specific to push-ups, of course, we can pick a progression that works for you. Usually easier for the people watching this video. You might want to start with something that you can do wall push-up, incline push-up, even if you're able to do a few good push-ups. They might not be the best for you because you might not really be able to get enough reps in to really push the wagon along. I guess that's the metaphor I'm using. But you can pick an easier progression and after you're able to do maybe five or so good, clean, full push-ups safely and with good form, then you can practice those maybe a few times a week for a few sets for as many as you can. And you can do the easy progressions afterwards still. And after you build up to like 20, 25 or beyond, you're like, man, I still want to do more. Then you can start thinking about how your sleep will affect it. The things you eat and getting enough water and stuff might be able to affect that. And of course, you can also change how often you practice. You can go from a few times a week to maybe five times a week because your body has adapted to doing more push-ups. And of course, with push-ups especially, you can start learning. You can start learning like, hm, hm, adjusting my elbow flare will help me activate my chest more. And wow, that actually feels a lot easier than just relying on my shoulders and triceps like I have been doing. There's a ton of little small things. And if it feels overwhelming, because I know I'm talking pretty quickly right now, then don't feel too stressed out. It can be really fun. And there's a lot to learn, but small things can go a long way. So start with something you enjoy. Pick and choose that and be like, hm, huh, so I learned about elbows and okay, and after you've mastered that, okay, what about shoulder position? Ah, so my shoulder blades can move like this and that feels better and can learn more over time and it can be a lot of fun. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my