 rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetcetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rapetc, rap or pulling against something either that you can't move, like pushing against a wall, or you're holding something still and choosing not to move. Think of a wall sit or a plank. And this type of training is not really controversial. It's been around for thousands of years as it's part of human movement, just like calisthenics. Even many famous moving exercises like the deadlift have an isometric component where you're supposed to keep your back neutral and still. Used by anyone from strongmen to physical therapists for strength, stability, rehabilitation. Now, like many people in fitness, I know of them, but I was first reintroduced to them as in why I should use them and why I should like them. In 2019 or so, when someone told me about this device and they told me why I should use it and the benefits, and I ended up really liking them. And it took a little while for me to find the groove of what I wanted to do, but I ended up really liking them. They really supplemented calisthenics really well. So you think about calisthenics and you think about things like the one leg squat here, which a common criticism is, yes, it builds mobility and strength, but you're going to run out of external force and you won't build the same type of strength, the argument goes, as if you were doing weighted squats. Now, I always think you can add weight to those squats if you want, but a theme of non-weighted calisthenics is really to find harder positions and harder exercises. So instead of adding weight to a regular squat, you would go to a one leg squat, and then you can try a one leg squat without bending your hips, things like that. So rather than adding weight or resistance, you make the movement, the exercise harder, and you get strong in these unusual positions. And with isometrics, it complemented what I was doing because I was doing that, but I also kind of wanted to overload and get stronger at these fundamental positions like a squat or shoulder press or weighted pull-up even. And while there are many ways to do that, again, it's like one of the oldest forms of training, if not the oldest form of training, was with this device. And it was called an ISO chain when I first got it. This one's called the ISO Max. As you can see, I've used it a fair amount, and I'll talk about a new version coming out called the ISO Flex in a bit. But it's very simple. It's basically just a scale. So I push or pull on this, and this tells me how much force I'm exerting. There used to be a spring on the first version I talk about, which is supposed to make it feel much more like you're holding an actual weight. But I replaced that with a strap, which is much lighter and just a little bit stretchy so you can have that same feeling. And then there's a carabiner here and some loops so you can adjust how short or long you want it. And again, it's very simple, but if you ever hear beeps while I'm using it, it's because I set it to a certain weight. And after it clears that certain weight, it's at or above, then it starts beeping. That way I can focus on the exercise without staring at the screen. So that's just what this thing does. Sorry, I know some of you don't care, but I want to spend an extra little bit talking about it, because I get asked about it all the time ever since I started using it. And I can't always explain that well in a text comment. But now I want to get into why I have trouble sharing isometrics, even though I like it so much. It's like my favorite form of training now. I do calisthenics and isometrics, and sometimes more isometrics and calisthenics. And it's very simple, fun, and effective for me. But there's a couple of innate problems with isometrics as presented this way, as some of you may have already realized hearing me talk about it. And that is there is an issue of convenience and measurability depending on how you want to do it. So I mentioned this is a very old form of exercise. So you can work isometrics pushing against a tree, preferably a somewhat flexible tree that can still hold your weight, or trying to lift your car, things like that. Those would be isometrics. And we know both from research and personal experience that this would make us stronger. There's no reason it wouldn't. There's mechanical tension and very high amounts of mechanical tension, actually, because as we know from the force velocity curve, the closer we get to our maximum strength, the slower we're going to be able to lift it. So trying to lift five pounds as fast as you can, you could probably lift it very quickly. 10 pounds, pretty much the same. 100 pounds, maybe a little bit slower. And 500 pounds, if you're even able to lift it, would go much slower than that. Much slower than five pounds, certainly, unless you're very strong. So we know that higher force can help us get stronger. But as we approach our maximum ability, the maximum weight we can lift, we slow down and eventually stop. And when we stop, that is sometimes known as overcoming isometrics, trying to push or pull against something that you can't move. And that is at or near the maximum force we're able to exert in that position. But the problem with that, that I see, and let me know if you know any solutions or things that I'm missing, is first, measurability. So we know that pushing against a tree like that can make us stronger, but we're not seeing numbers go up. And at first, I kind of questioned the importance of that. Like, well, I'll just continue pushing, then I'll feel myself getting stronger. And if you try this for a couple weeks, you will feel yourself getting stronger. As long as you have good programming, you're doing the holds right, you're doing the rest times right, you will get stronger doing that. But you really do lose some motivation, and you're not sure when to change, when to adjust, if you can't see any numbers going on. That's why this main part of the bar is basically a scale, a dynamometer, but dynamometer sounds a little bit more fun. But on the other hand, if you don't want to just push or pull against something that you can't move, and let's say that you have a dumbbell at home, and you're like, well, I'll just hold this for time, or you do like a wall sit, or you do a plank, and even you can do harder variations of that. That's very effective. But for some of the things that I wanted to try to do, like if I want to do an isometric squat, an isometric exertion squad, isometric bench press, then it might be, as you can see, kind of hard to set up. So I ideally would have a fully stocked gym. And if you have a gym membership, this might work really well for you. But so rather than setting up weights, and then doing the bench press, you would set up weights that you can hold. And ideally, you would have the safeties and everything there. So you can easily go hard without worrying about hurting yourself. And I started to introduce this to other people. But I think there's kind of a feeling where if you're driving to the gym, you're setting up weights anyway, they kind of just want, well, if I'm setting up weights anyway, then I might as well just move it rather than just do isometrics. So part of the great convenience of isometrics, like the stuff attached to us and around us, is kind of removed when we want to optimize for it, when we try to optimize for it with a gym or something, where there's a lot of setup, and if you're very serious about your fitness, your strength, and maybe you're an athlete, then some people do do this a lot. But for most of us, if I had to do that, I probably wouldn't train with isometrics nearly as much. And that's pretty much why I like this thing. So it's basically a scale or dynamometer attached to something else with a strap that's somewhat flexible. So you can just push or pull as hard as you want, and you would know how hard you're pushing or pulling. And very importantly, you can see yourself getting stronger over time. But this introduces the problems that I wanted to talk about that I mentioned earlier in the video, where we have with this, we can remove the barriers of measurability and convenience, because I can do it workouts very quickly. But we introduced a new barrier, which is cost. And there's also a learning curve associated with it that I'll talk about in a bit. But the first iteration of this product, the first version with the ISO chain, I did a review on that, I think back in 2020, maybe 2021, that cost $500. And it wasn't cheap to ship either. It cost $500, which was very, it was a barrier for some people and certainly me back in college. And even if I didn't do fitness content, partially for a living, I may not get that. And I think when they released this one, I think it was at $450 or something. I think it's gotten up and down. I don't track it. Now, I do want to mention that I don't have a business affiliation with the company and the people that make this device. I just like it. Now, I will mention a Kickstarter later on the video that they're doing for the next variation, the next version of this, I should say, but that's just because I like them and I want to support them if I can. This video isn't sponsored. But that's a good point, because even though I do like it, if I didn't do fitness partially for a living, which most people don't, and most people don't take fitness that seriously, I don't know if I'd spend $500 on a device exercise. Now, I know there's things like the X3 bar and there's other fitness devices, and you could say, oh, well, it plays as a gym membership. I get that, but $500 spent on one thing might stop me or at least pause me from making the investment into something like that. I listened to like, word of mouth works pretty well on me. So if a friend really tells me about it, then I would consider it. But I would certainly hesitate a lot more. So that's why even though I've done many videos on this, I think my most viewed video was on YouTube, certainly, was about isometrics. I think it was get stronger without moving part two. And a lot of people ask me, hey, that's really cool. What is this thing you're using? I would say, oh, it's called the isomax. But then I would always feel bad. And I would say, hey, I like it, but it is what some people would consider somewhat pricey. And I would feel bad because when I liked calisthenics, I was like, my gosh, I can just teach people. I started teaching my mom first, I think, and my girlfriend at the time, who's now my wife. And I was like, hey, you can do these wall pushups. And then you can go to incline pushups, and then knee pushups, and then full pushups. And I was like, wow, and then we can like make you much stronger without you having to go to the gym. Because some people don't want to go to the gym. Some people don't feel like they have time or the energy, or they just don't want to go to the gym. And they much rather exercise at home. And I can share calisthenics with them, something that didn't have cost associated with it. And I just give them the information and they can do it. And a lot of people have hopefully benefited from that. But with this thing, it was like, hey, there's this thing that I really like, but I'm not sure how to share it with you in the same way that I do, because I know a lot of people can't do it. And it's enough of a barrier to where I couldn't just like give them away. I know it probably costs a decent amount to manufacture. But even if it was $50, I don't know if I can give them away by the hundreds or the thousands. And of course, just real quick, something that I feel like other people may not immediately think looking at this, there's a little bit of a learning curve to learning this new modality, because it is a new modality. It's fitness. But there's some things that I wanted to learn around the best way to use it, because a lot of people use it for strength. So like, I think it was Eddie Hall, or and some other strong men who trained with overcoming isometrics. And that kind of lit the popularity of it for a while, it might still be going on. It's like, oh, wow, like I can push or pull against this as hard as I safely can. And I can get much stronger as a result, there's high force, it makes sense. So a lot of people use that for isometrics. And they use like one second hold, six second holds. But it took me a couple of years to recognize that that really wasn't how I wanted to use it. It made me stronger. But it I always felt a little bit unstable doing it. And this might just be a me thing. And it took me a couple years to be like, well, I'm just going to track what I'm doing. And I want to get better at 30 second holds a little bit more comparable to an exercise you're doing a nine to 12 rep range. And that really was very enjoyable to me. I only started doing that like, last year, less than a year ago, and really like, half a year when I really started to get in the groove of it, to where I got stronger, and I got more muscular. I know that's more controversial with isometrics, but you can look into long length isometrics. But I will say like all the size that you've seen me put on from the early parts of this year to now, I know it's not a whole lot, but that came from isometrics. And it might not just be from isometrics. But I just changed how I was eating. So I was training a very similar way. But I was like, I'm just gonna I'm gonna eat a little bit more. I'm gonna try to put on 20 pounds and see how that goes. So anyway, I've had a little bit of time to think about potential solutions to this because I've introduced a lot of friends to isometrics and I have my my family doing it. And there are three main paths that work as workarounds if you really like isometrics, but you don't want to spend extra money or you don't have extra money, which I totally get. And the first one is you can do the isometrics and just measure with your other exercises. Let's say you push a pull against or you push against the wall. And you also do bench press and you go like, Oh, my numbers are going up higher on bench press because I'm training pushing with something else. You see what I mean, you can kind of measure that way, you can feel yourself getting stronger. And then you just test that with other things. And this can work for some people. But it wasn't as cool as I thought it was when I first started the idea. I'm like, Oh, I'll just do this. First of all, because I found that I did need to change my position sometimes. So if I pushed against something like this, I want to know when I stopped gaining as much isometric strength in that position. So I could change the grip position or I could do a different angle is what I usually do. So there's a little bit of that I wasn't quite sure when to change. And I just didn't really feel motivated doing that. I did feel myself getting stronger. But I think a lot of people can relate to this with who have used isometrics. It just didn't really last in their training, it very much was more supplemental. And I just didn't really see that as a long term way of training. Some people may be different, that might work great for you. That's why I bring it up. And the second one that you can do is a lot more common, it's still used in gymnastics and calisthenics. And that is bodyweight isometrics, things like that. So elbow lever, planche, iron cross, any exercise where you're not moving, any hold is an isometric exercise, and you can do harder variations over time. So that is much more measurable. So let's say you're doing an elbow lever, you can do some straddle, or you can do a bent knee, and then you can do straight leg. If you're doing a human flag, you can bend your knees, or you can straighten them. You can bend at the hips, or you can straighten at the hips, and this adjusts the difficulty. That is measurable and convenient and costs pretty much nothing. Although it is surprisingly hard in my experience to find a pole or a ladder where you can do a human flag on. And when I made a tutorial on the human flag and people were like, where can I find a pole like this? I was like, huh, other people have felt this struggle too. I feel a little better. But I also felt bad because that meant fewer people had poles to practice flags. No fun, right? So there are the common holds that are more known in calisthenics and gymnastics like that. But then there's also things to where you could hold the halfway position or the bottom position or the top position of an exercise you're trying. So if you're watching this, a good thing that a lot of people can do is they can do holds. Like say you're trying to train for a pull-up, you can do holds at the bottom. And eventually, as you get closer to being able to do a pull-up, you'll find that you're able to hold the halfway position for time. And that can really help you get to the pull-up and you hold the top part. So it's kind of like a negative eccentric training only, but you can just do the isometrics and you can build up to time. And it does translate to your other dynamic exercise, if you're wondering. Now, isometric strength is usually a little bit more specific. So you get stronger for the sake of being able to hold things stronger, which is very functional. But rest assured, it does have transfer to your regular moving exercise as long as you're doing it well. And if you choose, for some reason, if you just like the idea of holding for time, you could even add weight to this. So let's say you could do a weighted pull-up and just hold that for time. So I'm lumping all of that in. So basically the second one is just fighting harder variations, including adding weight, but probably just different angles and learning to hold those for time before moving on. It's a very viable way to train. And even the occasional change of position will help you keep making progress for years to come. And the third is just making your own. So I've made a couple of videos on how to make a DIY bar video. I made a long one, I think back in 2020, I actually really liked the video, but it was not a lot of people knew what it was. So it didn't get that many views. And this is back in 2020, I think. And then I made a short version of this, I think last year, and that was fun to make, but I don't know how many people have actually made their own device and using the crane scale that I showed it, it works, but you have to use a mirror. You have to watch a little bit less convenient. And I don't know if that many people wanted to do that. That's probably what I would have chosen, because I am okay with making my own things. And I wanted something where I put in more effort up front, but it makes it easier later on. So I probably would make a DIY setup, but I know not everyone has the ability or time or desire to make their own DIY setup for a bar and chain device as it was called back then, but now a bar and strap device. But those are the ideas I have. I'll try to wrap up because I know it's getting dark that I tell my friends to help them get into it. And I hope they can work for you. But if you have any other ideas, let me know and share them. Maybe there's something that I'm missing to help introduce more people to isometrics. Because again, I really like it. I would like to share it with more people, but I just don't want there to be a tie in to like, oh, this is a product you have to buy isometrics when you shouldn't have to, you should be able to practice however you can. So if there's a way that you can think of for people to train isometrics, I would love to be able to hear that. But the last thing, which really isn't a solution yet is I've considered making my own thing, maybe a little bit simpler, but a way to measure things that I can make it and offer in the store. If I could sell for like 50 bucks, I think that might make it a little bit more accessible for people. I'd show a way for people to make their own, but people who want to spend 50 bucks on it and train with isometrics, like a little isobuddy or something. I thought about that. But again, while I'm open to doing that, maybe a few years down the road, one thing that stopped me from taking sponsorships is I don't want to share something that I really do like and enjoy. Some people think he's just trying to make an extra few dollars on that, even if it's something I make money from. But I really enjoy people like I just I wouldn't want to stop anyone from getting into isometrics because they thought that I was only talking about it for a profit incentive. That's one of the hesitations I have around making a product like that. And plus, there would have to be an app or something associated. I think some people really like apps. But now I want to get into the next version that they're making of this. So I recently talked to the creator of the ISO chain and the ISO max and soon to be ISO flex and he's making a new version. And he's thinking of having the price basically. So it's I think it's 250 on the Kickstarter, I think 300 retail after he sends it. I know that's still quite a bit for some people, but he's hoping that will make it more accessible to other people. He's also improving other parts of the build. So it has a more sturdy bar and the strap is a little bit more stretchy. And durable. I'll put a link to his Kickstarter in the description. But at 250 or wherever they might place it at. I know that still stops a lot of people from getting it. But I want to share here because it's something that it's a project that I want to help support that I know some other people might want to try. And once again, I'm not taking any money for mentioning that they actually offered. I just want to be candid. They actually offered kind of like a sponsorship or an affiliate where I would get a certain amount. But I thought about that. I thought deeply because this is a device like if I was ever to take a sponsorship, this is something that I use multiple times a week, sometimes every day. This would be the one that makes sense, right? Something that I actually like. But I thought about it. And it was kind of like what I mentioned before, I don't want to take it, at least for now, because I don't want to stop people from getting into something that I enjoy on the off chance they think that I have a profit motive. So that small, like relatively small percentage of people would be like, I would get that otherwise. But because I know he's being paid for it, I don't want to get it because now it just seems like it's a sale. I just want to be able to genuinely say and lawfully say that I'm not being paid for this. I just like it. I understand not everyone will, but I do. And I want to help support it. The guy who made it is my favorite fitness author. And he actually made a lot of the progressions in the hybrid fitness routine that a lot of you use. So wall pushups, incline pushups, they've been around for a while. But I first heard about them and learned about it through him. And when hypercalisthenics first started getting some traction, I reached out to him by email. And I asked him if it was okay for me to spread his teachings to try to help a lot of other people. And he gave me his blessing. So he's always been nice to me. I just wanted to help him out. Once again, I just want to help the project. And I hope we can get it launched. And I hope it can help a lot of people. I understand not everyone's going to go for it. And that's you. Totally fine. But I just want to support them how I could while talking about this device that I get asked about quite a bit and just talk about isometrics a bit because it's on my mind. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.