 naringin, naringin,cipherote, naringin, muscle. And the difference in training that may not be as big as we imagine, we progressively overload. This is why powerlifters are usually stronger and bodybuilders are usually bigger, but both of them are often strong and big. But there is a special difference in calisthenics and home workout. Because in weightlifting, we usually just change the reps, the sets, and the weight. And when you can lift more weight, that means you've gotten stronger. But in bodyweight fitness, we may also change the movement as we get stronger. So when people say they want to get stronger in calisthenics, it isn't usually just lifting more weight, but learning a new movement or skill. I guess it squeaks a bit. This could be something like learning a push-up or pull-up if you're starting out, or some harder gymnastic skills if you're more advanced. And I compare this to something like learning tricks in skateboarding, where the point is to learn the trick. Now, there are some flips, like the hard flip, in skateboarding that may require strong ankles and calves. But I don't personally know anybody doing skateboarding flips specifically to grow their calves. The strength and muscle are cool, but the point is the trick. So here we have the difference. When people say they're training for strength with calisthenics and bodyweight fitness, they often mean they're trying to learn a movement or skill. They should train that way, and we'll talk about that in a moment. And when they say they're trying to build muscle with calisthenics, then they're trying to build muscle with calisthenics. But a big part of that will be choosing the right movements to train the muscles you want. And neither training is necessarily wrong, but many people watching this are still working on building up to several push-ups, pull-ups, and squats, and getting comfortable with those. And if that is you, I recommend you learn the movements first before you try to find specific exercises to, say, target your upper chest. And that's because as you get stronger and you learn more movements, you will have more options to target the muscles. And you're still gaining muscle this way with this training. So you're building a good foundation. Now, there's a few questions people might have. And the first is that, no, Hampton, I don't want to learn movements. I want pure strength with calisthenics. And I want to say this, and it might surprise some people, it's not really a thing in the way many people are thinking, in my opinion. Meaning strength requires some skill for you to express that. So if you learn to do push-ups and you couldn't do push-ups before, then you've gotten stronger. That strength will have some transfer to bench press, but it's not one-to-one. And same the other way around. If you learn bench press, it won't always transfer to push-ups. They're slightly different skills. But if it makes you feel more comfortable, if you're learning to use your body better, then you are getting stronger. You just want to choose the exercises that best work for you. And second, I'm not really counting weighted pull-ups and weighted dips, things like that, when I mention calisthenics. Because in my opinion, they are more similar to what we usually consider weightlifting. In the sense that the point is for you to lift more weight over time. And technically, almost every exercise is weighted calisthenics. Like a barbell squat is just a squat, but weighted. A bench press is just bench pressing the air, but weighted. Everything with weight is weighted calisthenics. Everything. It's all weighted calisthenics. But strength with calisthenics is a little bit different than using weights. When people think of strength training with weights, they usually think something like low reps, high sets, high total volume, and heavy weights so you can recruit a lot of muscle fibers, which is part of how you get stronger. So the weight is heavy so you can't do very many reps, so you do higher sets so you can get higher total volume. But here's where calisthenics is a bit different, especially for beginners. At a start, one of your limiting factors is actually skill. You're still learning how to do the movement at all. For example, an Olympic lifting coach might have someone practice the snatch or clean and jerk with just an empty bar or even just a PVC pipe. They're probably strong enough to lift more, but first they need to learn the path of the bar, how to brace, when to breathe, basically how it should feel when it's right. That's why for things like push-ups, I like starting people with something like three sets of wall push-ups over time. The movement itself is not magical. It's just easy to control. You can focus on bracing, alignment, and smooth motion. And you get a lot of clean, intentional reps to teach your body the movement of pushing. So for beginners in calisthenics, strength training often starts with something like pick an easy variation like wall push-ups or high-inclined push-ups, building up to higher reps with clean, comfortable, intentional technique. And you continue to work this as your joints, technique, and coordination catch up. And then after the pattern feels natural and you're used to it, you can flip to something more similar to what we think of as strength work. So you can move to harder variation like full push-ups or one-arm push-ups. After a warm-up, you can do these first with lower reps per set, like three to five. And because of those lower reps, you can do more sets so you can get more total volume, which will help you recruit those bigger muscle fibers that will help you get bigger and stronger. And that small difference of learning the movement first before you go ham on it, pun intended, and practice hard can be the difference between spending a lot of time being frustrated and making progress for years and years and years. We usually want that second one. By the way, if you want some help figuring out where to start, that's exactly why we made the Hypercalisthenics app. You just tell it what you can do right now, and it gives you a simple routine that walks you through all the easy variations like wall push-ups, help you get to the harder movement step-by-step, tells you when to rest and when to move on based on your feedback. If that sounds helpful, try it out. You can start for free. Next, we can move on to training for muscle. Now, some of you might think, well, I don't want extra muscle. I don't want to bodybuild. I just want strength. And as someone who is clearly not a bodybuilder but has benefited from putting on some muscle, extra muscle can make you stronger. In fact, after a certain point, after you've basically learned to use all the muscle fibers you have, one of the ways you can continue to improve is by making the muscle bigger. And the good news is once you're comfortable with the regular movements like push-ups, pull-ups, and squats, then building muscle actually becomes a lot easier. You basically have two big levers you can pull. Number one is you can simply add weight to the fundamentals. A lot of the common calisthenics exercises represent fundamental human movements like pushing and pulling. And if you're already good at them, then simply adding weight to them is a good way to keep building muscle pretty much forever. And you don't always need a gym for this. For example, you can put on a backpack with books and do push-ups like that, or you can use a dip belt or a dumbbell to make your pull-ups and dips harder. And as long as you keep gradually increasing the load over months and years intelligently and safely, and you eat and sleep to support growth, then these so-called simple exercises will continue to work and build muscle on you for a long, long time. But number two is you can use your newfound strength to explore more specialized movements. These are usually harder but can target the muscles you want. For example, you can do body weight tricep extensions to work on your triceps, or sissy squats to work on quads. These let you put extra emphasis on those specific muscles to grow them while still mostly staying in the body weight world. And the good news is that working on strength and movements first can help you build a good foundation for strength and muscle. But eventually you might go like, eh, I want my triceps to pop a bit more and you can work on things like diamond push-ups. And in practice, doing a mixture of both is probably best. You can keep adding weight to your fundamentals, doing it safely and gradually so you don't injure yourself because that can set you back. And you can keep that as your foundation while adding in a few exercises to grow the parts that you want to grow. So if we zoom out early on, use easy variations, higher reps, and lots of smooth practice to learn the movement patterns. And after you're good at the basics, for strength, use harder versions with lower reps and more sets. And for muscle, either add weight to the basics or use that strength to do more specific exercises, or you can do both. And if you're not sure what that means and it seems too complicated, don't worry. It's okay to combine these and most people do. Just try to decide what phase you're in and what you're practicing. Like maybe right now you're just learning the movement and positions. Or maybe right now you're pushing heavy for strength. Or maybe right now I'm targeting these specific muscles so you can continue to sculpt yourself and look insanely beautiful or whatever your goals are. But if you know where you are, this can help save you a lot of trial and error. Thank you so much for watching and have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend.