 Early wins can keep you motivated for years, and here's how you can activate them to help you, and why this might be just as important as discipline. And I would define an early win as an early small improvement that helps us tie our effort to results. So if you worked out last week and you feel better this week, that can be an early win, and you probably can feel that, might be very motivating, empowering or build self-efficacy, whichever one appeals to you. But wait, shouldn't we not rely on motivation because motivation can be unreliable and discipline is required for growth? While that can be true, the issue, my issue with that, is discipline helps us do hard things, but not all hard things are worth doing, and having a small win to let us know we're going in the right direction can help us know whether or not something is worth doing or if we're on the right track. This doesn't mean things have to be perfect right away, let me be clear, but what this does is it can offer some proof that our efforts can lead us towards the results we want, and when we combine this motivating factor with discipline, it can help us delay gratification, and this is important because big results, big goals, usually take big time, and it's unfortunate, but you probably know from experience that you can spend a lot of time on something and not really get anywhere, and unfortunately, you can sometimes spend a lot of time on something and end up worse off than you were, so it can help to have some reassurance and self-evidence that our efforts and the thing we're waiting for will pay off over time. And with that in mind, here are three ways you can achieve some early wins to help you, and the last one trips up a lot of people, but it's probably also the most helpful. So the first thing you can do is you can build and plan for consistency, and here's what I mean, because you want to be consistent, even if it's not perfect, because nothing will really work if you don't do it consistently, and I think whatever you have in your mind, whatever fitness routine or routine in general, plan to do it for at least 30 days, even if it's not perfect, and I think there's some psych research. On the other hand, I would say 30 days is nice and round, and more importantly, my phone's over there, I don't have to look up the actual stat, and the reason this is so important is because the consistency itself is also an early win. When you keep a promise to yourself, I consider that a victory. When you say, hey, I'm gonna do this, and then you do it, you can feel pretty good about that, but also, this is kind of a cliche in fitness nowadays, right? Like what, being consistent helps, really? So what I mean by build for consistency is to set yourself up not for failure, but for success, and there are different ways you can win. And one of the things I would recommend is to have a light version of your routine, but have a core structure. So if you use the example of the routine we have on the website, each day only has two exercises, depending on the one you're looking at, and people are like, well, wait, Hampton, what about push-ups and leg raises? What about when I work on triceps? Like what about my obliques and stuff? And the thing is you can add all of those. I just think the core structure is very important because if you plan for your workout to be an hour a day, I think you'll realize that most people, no matter how consistent, they're going to have some days where they can't quite do that, either something comes up, or they're extra tired, or they're sick. And I think if you've resolved for consistency, and we know that being consistent can improve our idea of early wins, which in turn can help us be more consistent, so we want to be more consistent to be more consistent, so we want to build the idea of an easy way to be consistent, right? If you can't do an hour, it's not just a mulligan. It's just like, well, nope, it's gonna be an NA on today on the calendar, but you can do a light version of it that you can do in like 10, 15 minutes, and that can still move you towards your goals and the things you want to do. And another thing you can try, because I really want you to be consistent during that first month or two, because it can really help set that early win, is you can have some kind of plan for missed days, because just about everybody is going to have some missed days, even with the thing, the light routine that I was talking about, it's just like when you start a job, you're going to have some sick days. You're gonna have some days off, whether planned or not. So you can have a plan where you simply do the exercise the next day, which is what I do, but that may not work for everyone. For example, if I miss pushups today, when I'm doing pullups tomorrow, then I would do pushups and pullups tomorrow. And to be clear, that is more of a mental thing. You don't have to do that for optimal growth. And you're like, ah, I didn't really miss it, because I actually did it the next day. So that's something that I actually did early on when I was doing pushups every day. I would just add the pushups to the next day. And another thing you can do is you can have a preset amount of off days per month. And if you want, you can reward yourself if you don't use those off days, because the idea is to stick to the plan, right? So it's like, you don't want to say like, oh, I have three days, just random days that I'll take out this month, other in addition to my plan rest days, these are just like three random off days. And you can say, ah, if I don't do that, then I will buy myself a new T-shirt. Now, not everyone likes that idea of like, ah, you know, like go harder, get a reward. Some people say a message to them. So feel free not to use those. Feel free to use whichever one you think can work for you. I just wanted to give different examples to inspire different people. And the second one is one I've talked about a lot. So I won't spend too long on it, but you want to start with progression, weight, or difficulty that you know you can handle. And when in doubt, err on the side of being slightly too easy rather than too difficult. So a lot of people watching this are still working on their first push-up. And if you go like this and like, ah, I can barely do it. And then you do two sets, do nearly as many as you can do. And just two sets of two and then one. And then you try it again next week. You're like, man, it might feel a little bit better, but I don't really feel that much difference. And in the third week, it's like, I still don't really feel that much difference. So for one thing, you might not be getting enough volume with that to really trigger all the growth that you have potential for. Meaning that even if you're still doing three sets of as many as you safely can, if you're just doing like three reps total, that might not be enough to really get as much growth for what you need right now. And if you do an easy variation, just because I'm on the ground right now, you can do something like a knee push-up and it might feel easier to be like, ah, so I actually have added on like two reps since last week. And as you get stronger and as the exercise gets more difficult, it will usually be harder and represent greater growth when you add on a rep. So it is easier to add on reps to something like a wall push-up. And it is harder to add on a single rep to something like a one-on push-up, to add on a single rep when you're already benching like 500 pounds. It's not exactly how it works, but you can visualize it as in like, if you're just moving 15 pounds like this, so it's 15, 30, 45, 60, 75. If it's 15 each and your ability increases by say 30 the next week, then you'll be able to do two more, right? This is a simple example. But if you're doing something that requires a total score of like 100, then you might increase by 50, but you haven't really gotten that extra rep. You might not be able to feel that. Even though you're halfway there, you've actually grown more, you've grown 50 here, but 30 there. So you've made good gains, but you can't quite feel or see it yet and that can be demotivating, especially early on. And once again, after you build these early wins, then you know, especially after months and years, you're like, okay, cool. It'll take me a while to be able to bench this amount. It'll be a while before I can do this Calisthenics exercise, but because I have experience and now I'm a little bit more confident than I know what I'm doing, I know I can spend more time on this and eventually I can get to my goals accurately and safely. And you can skip this if you already know, but if you want the progressions that we use, we put them on our website at hybridcalisthenics.com, I know people have seen this before if you're a regular viewer, but every new video, every day, I get people basically asking this question of where do I start and this is my answer that I've given over time. And since it's been around for a few years, it's pretty cool to see people now give reviews and say, hey, I followed this for several months or even several years and it helped me get to push-ups, pull-ups, squats, and beyond, which I think is really cool and we'll keep trying to improve it. And now we do have a fitness mobile app in beta that can give you the exercises day to day and tell you what progression to move onto based on your feedback. We're starting a new development cycle in September, which is a few days from when I'm filming this, so super excited about that. And the third and last thing that you can do to reinforce those early wins is you can measure what matters and have realistic expectations for that. And like I said, this one can help a lot of people, but it's also a little bit trickier, so I might spend a little bit extra time on it. And I'll start with an imperfect metaphor and that is, let's say you start a new job, that'll be the metaphor for your routine here. A new job, you like it, you're excited to start, but what you track for how much money you're making is your bank account day to day. Now in the US, where I'm at, it might be different from where you are, in a lot of jobs you get paid every two weeks, right? But let's say you started this job and it's good, the pay is actually good, but you go in and the next day you look at your bank account and you're like, man, it didn't go up, right? In fact, it went down because I had to pay for gas in order to get to the job. Well, this job is not very good, it's clearly not working, even though I thought it would be good. But obviously, this is like, most people will be like, oh yeah, of course, right? You just track your hours work and look at the contract for like how much you get paid per hour and that's more of an accurate determinant of like how much you'll make over time in your progress. So this seems obvious to us for something like a job. And even though it's not a perfect metaphor, some people unfortunately fall into this kind of trap when they're exercising, right? Which is why I recommend something like reps, which is a little bit more consistent, but pretty much anything you track will have a little bit of variability. But a lot of people watching this, their goal is, some people watching this, their goal is to lose weight, right? And they can adjust the things they eat and exercise as part of that. They get really excited about this new fitness routine. They're like, yes, this makes sense. I like it, it's something I can do. And that first day they go hard and like, man, I did all this exercise. I feel a little bit sore the next day, but I'm gonna step on a scale because that was my goal. And oh, the numbers have gone up and I'm trying to lose weight. So why have I gained weight? Now, this is not uncommon for exercise. So if you've experienced that, don't worry. There's a little bit of inflammation, water retention, things that might happen the day after exercise, especially if you haven't been exercising for a while. And it's highly unlikely for someone to gain like two or three pounds of fat if you're trying to lose fat. So I'm just saying, don't worry. But you see how that kind of works as like the opposite of an early weight. It kind of feels like an early loss if that's your goal, right? It's like, well, I'm moving in the wrong direction. Should I keep going? When you want to measure the things that actually measure your progress and you still need to give that some time. I know the idea is like fast feedback cycle so you can go faster, you can see the victory. So usually I would like someone to see the reps increase on an easier exercise like a wall pushup. And they can go from like 10 to 20, 20 to 30 pretty quickly, even like Monday and next Monday or for some people like Monday and then Tuesday, right? Depends on the person Monday and Wednesday. The exercise form, like how hard you went and how like your current conditioning, it will affect a lot of that. How it fit you were before you stopped or if you ever exercised before, that can all affect it. So if you're like, hey, I didn't make those things, don't worry, everyone's a little bit different. But that's why I like tracking reps. But even reps aren't perfect because you can be sore. You can just happen to be sore the next time you do pushups and you measure that again. Man, I just didn't do as many. But even though you measure under the same conditions, maybe the day before you had to sprint for a little bit and like you were sore, you didn't feel it. So it's not quite perfect. And it's tough to find an exact thing to measure, right? And that's why it's a little bit complicated here. If you know, if everyone could see their actual progress, I feel like a lot of people would be a lot more motivated. It's like, okay, that's cool. Well, like my reps have gone down and I'm trying to lose weight or gain muscle, but I just haven't really seen it in the past couple of days. But I can see my actual progress line is going up. I feel like a lot of people would be like, I'll just put in the work day in, day out, day in, day out. Because like I can see it going up, but in reality, it's not quite that. So I was thinking about a way around this. And usually the difference is experience and knowledge, right? So some people watching this are pretty experienced in fitness, right? So they know like, okay, well, I don't need to track day to day because I know the things I'm doing will work. But that takes a little bit, fitness isn't super complicated, but it takes a little bit of time to build that. So what some people do is they hire a trainer and knows what they're talking about and has experience coaching people towards the goal that you want. I know not everyone can afford that, but I think the two major workarounds, if you're struggling with early wins, what you're doing is working totally fine. If you're struggling with early wins, you can either look things up and learn yourself or you can hire someone else that knows. And that can give you reassurance because the more you know, the more you understand about your method, the longer you can stay motivated and be like, okay, cool. So I know doing this will result in this. I've seen it before. I understand how it works. So I'm just gonna keep doing this. I really hope this can help. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.