 R-yộc, artifleri-yộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộcộc that took me more tries than I would like to admit. It was just one extra try, but if there's still one extra try then it should take to say the word magnetically. These are some of the exercises I don't always get a chance to fully show when I'm doing short videos where I'm trying to explain a concept and show the exercises very quickly. But as you can see, there are different ways you can warm up this area. You just wanna get some blood flowing to your wrist. And if you wanna go through some slight extra effort, I actually really like doing rice bucket training as a wrist warmup. I've done a short video on that before and it just feels great. First we're gonna train this part of the wrist movement. For this first exercise, I'm using some parallettes. You can also use a dumbbell, a broom handle, or just something you can hold. If you really don't have anything, you can just place your hands sideways like so. But I recommend finding something that you can hold because we often use our wrists to hold things. So you may wanna train them like that. Whatever you use, just place them on either side of you. You can gently lean forward like so. You don't need any weight while you're leaning forward. And you just hold in this position. And if you're not familiar with isometrics, I'm basically trying to bring it up like so, but I'm pushing down hard enough where that's not happening. So I'm trying to move it, but it's not moving. You don't have to go as hard as you can. Go 30, 40, 50%. You can experiment with what feels best and you can adjust the angle a little bit. This is a very familiar position if you've ever done pushups on parallettes. But if you start to feel pain, back off a little bit. This is not supposed to be a painful routine. Okay, after you've held this for about 30 seconds, I go right into the next exercise, but you can rest for a bit. Someone said to me, well, isn't that going to cause an overuse issue with you? And it probably depends on how hard you go. So to use an extreme example, if I go like the weight of two gnats, I can probably do that a long time every day. And it's probably fine because the weight of my hand is already doing that day in and day out. But if I'm like going so hard and like beads of sweat are pouring down my forehead just from doing this gentle wrist exercise, then yeah, I might want to rest a little bit longer or there could be issues. I actually don't know if it's possible to go that hard during this exercise. I'm sure someone's tried it. Okay, now we'll work the part of our wrist that goes like this. And the thing with these isometrics is they can work at different angles, but I try to find one where I'm already somewhat weak and it might feel a little bit stretched out. And for this one, I lean back a bit like this. I don't grab here because that would go like this. I actually grab a little bit here to make that a bit harder. And similarly, I just try to flex up against resistance for about 30 seconds. You may find pretty quickly that you need to readjust the angle a little bit to where you can put appropriate pressure where it won't hurt, but you can still feel yourself putting effort where you want it. And you might say, well Hampton, this looks like a overly dramatic way to train your wrist. You have to go all the way to the ground like you're doing some kind of underground speed racing. And to that I say, you're right. You don't have to do this, but you can still choose to. And once again, I do these for around 30 seconds. But if I readjust my position, then I reset the count. So it probably ends up between 30 to 60 seconds, which is good too. And afterwards you can rest a little bit. And out of this entire routine, that one's probably my least favorite because I just don't feel like I use it that often. But I imagine one day someone will be like Hampton, pull the lever. I'm like, I'm going to pull the lever. Like, no, no, no. You can't pull it this way. You must pull it this way. And I'm like, well, I'm not strong enough for that. And you're like, well, just terrible things will happen. So until that day, we train for it. Well, next we'll train some flat palm strength and our wrist stability to flex. And I think just this position, whether you're doing a pushup or just kneeling like this, or any number of positions where your palm is on the ground, is such an underrated position in calisthenics. Because I don't think we often put our flat palm against the ground outside of exercise. So if we suddenly have to, if we fall or something, then we may be more prepared for it. It's usually a good thing to be prepared. Just like the other holds, there are slightly different positions where you can do this. I recommend one that mimics the other exercises you do. Probably get the most benefit from that. I'm going to have the strain to see you at this angle. Your goal, once again, is to stay out of pain. I try to go where my forearms are somewhat perpendicular to the ground. But if you can't do that without hurting, then you can stay back here. Sometimes I lean forward a little bit. Depends on the old mood. You may choose to grip the ground a little bit. Going fully flat might be a little bit harder. But once again, adjust based on what you're likely to use. If you keep it gentle, you can kind of feel the parts of your wrist that each variation will affect. And you can just hold this for about 30 seconds. But I tend to use this to work on different positions at a time. Like I may use it to work on my serratus a bit because that can help me work on my upper body stability while I do this. Or depending on my angle, I might use this to stretch a little bit and work on my shoulders moving up. Also holding against resistance, which is also pretty helpful. Okay. Anywhere from 30 to 60 seconds of that, you can rest a little bit. And you probably can't tell that much on video because you can't really see how hard I'm pressing. But there should be some thought put into how hard you're pressing. You're not supposed to feel pain, especially at first. See, isometrics, which is basically exercises where you don't move, which is pretty much this entire routine, are known to have a slight pain reduction effect sometimes, which is often used as a benefit. It's like, hey, you can reduce your joint pain if you just do this. And I can see how that's handy. And you can try this now. But pain isn't just there to annoy us. It also is supposed to be a sign, a warning sign against injury. So if you need a small break or to back off, please do that. Because you don't want to go like, ha ha, I am feeling no pain. Ha ha ha. Okay. And then a lot of pain comes. And after workouts, I've often felt a little bit tender on the side of my wrist. And having done this for a while, it has reduced a lot, but it still is there a little bit. So you may have to expect to do this for a couple of months. If you're wondering where else to get started, we have a free fitness routine on our website at hybridcalisthenics.com slash routine. And if you want some personalized guidance on exactly what exercises to do day in and day out, how long to rest, and when to move on to harder exercises based on your feedback, we have an app that can help you do exactly that. And you can try it for free. Oh, and now we're going to work a bit on the back of our wrist and our wrist ability to extend in that position. This one is probably the most uncomfortable one. So don't be surprised if you can't put a lot of pressure on there. I don't know how common this is, but I interestingly seem to be able to put more of my body weight on there when I have a cushion and especially in the grass, because this doesn't feel right to do that on more solid ground. I don't know if it's just a comfort thing. You may notice the further away you go, the more your wrist has to bend so you can keep it a little bit closer together and you can start to hold this a bit for time. And once again, if you assisted enough, you'd be able to do this motion. So you're not pressing quite hard enough to lift yourself up like this, but that you are pressing into the ground. Once again, around 30, 40, 50%. You don't have to spend as much intentional time overloading on this exercise as much as you do on others. You just keep that around 50% and your ability may improve over time. And see, these are small things that I sometimes want to include in my short videos. And despite being probably primarily a short form content creator, I like giving details. I'm naturally a little bit of a detailed, long winded person. And I try to write these out in the description, but I don't know how many people actually read them. So that's why I would like to do a few more long form variations like this video in case people want to hear the details. And okay, after you're done with that, that's basically the first cycle. So you can rest for a few minutes. And I repeat this three times, but depending on how hard you can go, you can just do once or twice at first and you can work up to four or five if you want. And because they're so gentle and I use these as a warmup anyway, I sometimes do this every day, but you can take a couple of days off throughout the week. I recommend trying this for a couple of months, like I mentioned, and obviously you can do more, but mine only takes about 10, 15 minutes, which flies by because I'm usually doing it while I wait for something else to load. Or if I'm watching TV with friends or if I'm just hanging out with people and I go, I'm going to do the wrist exercises. You can adjust for what works for you. Thank you so much for watching and have a beautiful day, my friend.