Hey, if you've ever wondered how some people seem to make a lot of friends very easily, whereas it may not come as naturally to you, I made this video for you. And I want to offer kind of a cynical take on making friends and being popular that I think might resonate with a lot of people. And then I'll take a different approach, maybe kind of argue with myself and give an alternative perspective on the same thing and making friends. And you can decide which one seems to resonate more with you. And I'll use myself as an example because while I never really struggled to make friends, I was blessed to have a few good ones, I didn't really naturally thrive in large friend groups. I never had a large friend group until fairly recently in my later adult life. I met and know a lot more people and people seemed to get along with me a little bit more easily. They seem more open to being friends with me. So why is this? Because I don't necessarily think I just got better looking. Or maybe I did. And part of what's changed, it's hard to deny, is that I have now acquired more skills that are useful to other people. So I'm walking through a small river here. And that's one of the things I was doing when I was spending time not necessarily hanging out with friends is I was working on these skills. Not because I wanted friends, but because that brought me joy. I like practicing things and trying to get good at them. So from here, we can make the somewhat cynical observation that I had some friends, but not a whole lot. But after I became more useful to people, more people wanted to hang out with me. Interesting. Hm. So I had a few and then after I had more skills, I had more. Now, is this true? If you have more valuable skills, just think about this. If you have more valuable skills, will more people want to hang out with you if you're more useful? And I would say usually yes. Unless like those skills came with a sharp downturn in likability. Usually you're going to get more people seeking your company and attention, right? Not necessarily if they like you, but let's say there's a version of you that's not very good at carpentry and a version of you that's a master at carpentry. If nothing else, you'll get a few people who are like, "Oh, I need some carpentry skill. I need this birdhouse. I need this deck." I have a carpenter friend and he is very skilled and friendly. So, he gets all the friends. And I just realized I don't just mean Jesus. though he was a carpenter. I have a carpenter friend who lives down the street from me. And from that take, I'm sorry, my camera monitor turned off so I can't quite see myself. You might think that there's only one option remaining. There's a perspective you can take from that. Forget people, stay on the grind, right? It's not enough for people to want you. They have to need you if you want them to stick around. That is one perspective. And look, I told myself that when I was making these videos, showing different perspectives, I didn't just want to bash on one side too much. I wanted to show actual perspectives that I can see and hopefully some people can resonate with them. And if you want to be a sigma male, which I know some people watching this, they want to be sigma. They're like, "Yes, I will improve myself. I will work on myself. I will be on the sigma grind set." And if you're doing that and you're not going to hurt anyone, you're just trying to improve yourself. Go for it. That's awesome. Not everyone will relate and you still might eventually want to hang out with some other people. That might be nice. But you're doing with a mindset of improving yourself, power to you. Oh, hey, there's a train. Then the alternative perspective is that just because some people may need you sometimes doesn't mean they don't want you at other times. See, I think it is true that some people think that nobody will want to be around them unless they're useful, unless they can provide something for them. And there's different ways to rationalize that. And some people do spend their entire lives building their lives this way to where they try to be useful to people around them. So they're always needed and they're always valuable. And I think while there is an instinct to deny that or laugh at that, I think these people are in a mindset to where if we deny that, it just further drives them the point. It's like, yeah, you don't understand me. I have to actually bring value to you in order for anyone to want to be around me in order for me to make my way in this world. And just to reiterate, I've already said this, but I want to say it again. If you're watching this, I have made a lot of wonderful friends. um both people that I've done favors for and people who have helped me tremendously at many different times in my life. So, I'm not saying that this is necessarily me. I don't even think that I'm that skilled, but I just do understand the mindset behind it because I have gone through some times where I spent quite some time by myself just working on myself. But here's the other perspective on the same thing. Because even if we take this as true that as we become more skilled and valuable and useful to others, more people want to be around us, there's another way we can look at that that might seem a little bit more benevolent to some people. And that is when we offer to help people. This is a wonderful thing. And what that is is it gives people a chance to connect with us. It gives us the opportunity not just for other people to make use of us, but for people to get to know you. So, if you've been through college or you live with a roommate, you may know that there are some people that you may not have been friends with just by virtue of your personality. You might have very clashing personalities, but because you live together or you went through something, you are now friends possibly for life because of that. So, I think it's a similar thing. When you can do more things for other people, even if you put aside the utilitarian aspect of that, it gives you more chance to connect with other people because there are some people who would be maybe your best friend, wonderful friends that are looking for an artist, that are looking for a carpenter, that are looking for an electrician. And if you happen to be that and hey, I will do this thing for you. Hey, did you check out that happened the other day? It was crazy, wasn't it? What do you think of this? And wow, you can bond over that. So when you share one connection, you might discover a lot of other wonderful connections and that can help you make friends. Not only that, but doing things with and for other people gives them a chance to trust you. And I think some of us have this unspoken but somewhat understandable thing to where if we have good intentions and we want to help people and we want to befriend them and be good to them, we might be offended that they don't trust us, right? But think about how the world is and how how these people know your intentions. I made a video a little while ago and some people resonated with it and it was talking about how when we offer to help people maybe for free and we reach out and some people will slap it away saying no I don't want that. Some of us might be offended and I was offering a different perspective where when we try if you've tried to feed a stray animal I know there's different thoughts on that but if you've ever fed a stray animal or seen one they might hiss at you. They might try to scratch at you. They might chase after you depending on the animal. And by all means, be careful. But we could be offended by that. But we could also at the same time recognize that that is a reaction based on how the world may have treated them so far. We don't know their lives. And for a stray animal, for many stray animals out there, it's quite possible that many of the things they met wanted to eat them, hurt them, take something from them. And I posted that and I was having my friend repost videos a little while ago and I saw this comment and it was someone who said, "Your tendency to want to see other people as stray animals says more about you than it does them." And I know some people might agree with that watching this and I see that perspective. I understand how it might seem negative, but for me, I will somewhat double down and say I don't necessarily think it's completely a negative thing to be a stray animal. I think for myself at least and possibly other people, I could consider myself a stray animal. You know, as in the sense that we're lost and we would love to find a home. If we found a home of loving people and a loving family, we would treasure them a lot. We would treasure them for the rest of our lives. But until then, we might be lost or astray in one way or many ways. And there's another layer that's kind of funny because my friends and people who know me a little bit better like that quote. They love it and they try to use it and they try to be kinder to other people and more open-minded to other people as a result. But this person who was commenting didn't know me. So in this case, they might assume that people who say that want bad things for him. They might assume that other people are a danger to him. So the example I was using also kind of describes this example. And if and when we choose to help other people and you don't have to, I understand life is tough. You have your own problems. I get it. But when we choose and we have developed some skills to where we have made ourselves more able to take care of them and provide for them and help them out during a perhaps a dire time of need. That can also be a very wonderful thing and that can also create a bond that lasts a lifetime even beyond that point to when you have done something for them. They when they're able they might come around and do more things for you. Very important. And I've talked about this in other videos, so I won't spend too long on it, but when we give, I recommend not necessarily expecting that. So, we could give something to someone that's quite valuable and that person later on becomes your best friend and you give the same thing or even more to someone else and that person doesn't really want anything to do with you later on. We can sidestep that resentment in my opinion uh by not expecting things in return. Right now, transaction trades, yes, get something in return. But when I want to give, when I want to truly give, and just for me, I make sure that I'm okay not getting things in return if I say I'm giving, even friendship. So, I try to be okay with giving something to someone and they turn around and they leave because they sometimes do that, right? Again, just for what I'm giving. I know sometimes we want something in return, but we can establish and or communicate that. So, when we give just because we want to give, that can be wonderful, that can be beautiful, and that can create wonderful friendships. But when we say we want to give out of the goodness of our heart, but we secretly want something in return, that could be considered manipulation. And I know self-improvement gets a bad rap sometimes. Again, understandably so. There's some pretty goofy stuff out there. But if you feel compelled to want to work on yourself, if you want to improve parts of yourself, whether it's developing things like compassion, patience, and diligence, or physical hard skills that you can use to provide for people that you care about and give to people that you care about, I think that can also be a wonderful thing. I know some people have the perspective that we don't have to improve ourselves because we're perfect the way we are. And I can't speak for the people that are saying that. They might be perfect the way they are, and that's awesome. But I certainly am not. I certainly was not am not and I know other people who feel the same. So the other perspective on people using you just for your skills is that instead of us searching for friends, we could at the same time work on ourselves to build ourselves into a person that can protect, provide, give, love, and care for our future friends and family the way we may feel they deserve. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend. And you may say that, "No, I want people to love me for who I am, not the things I can do for them or the things they can do for me." And that's great, but how do they know that you're good? And you said, "Well, I am." And it's like, "Yeah, but you could be a terrible person. You could be a murderer." You're like, "But I'm not. And I know that you're not, but they don't. How will they know? How would they know you from Bobby who happens to be a murderer?" I know like two or three Barbies, and they happen to be pretty good people. I don't think they've murdered anyone. Or if they have, they had the skills to keep it pretty hush- hush.