 There's a new trend in fitness, a Japanese walking method. And compared to regular walking, it's supposed to offer better cardio, increased strength and endurance in your legs, and even improve metabolic health. But what is Japanese walking? And for those wondering, no, it's not just me walking. I'm not, I'm not even Japanese. It is a walking method that seems to have been popularized based on a study done by Japanese researchers. And it is essentially interval walking. So sometimes it's called interval walking training, or IWT, where you spend a few minutes, three to five minutes warming up, then you do a slow walk, like so, for three minutes, and then you do a fast walk for three minutes, and you repeat that the slow and fast five times for a total of 30 minutes, plus whatever time it takes you to warm up. And that is actually about half the time it would take a person to walk 10,000 steps, which is what a lot of people go for. And yet you get increased leg strength because of the faster walking, and you also get around the same caloric burn, and some places actually say it's better for weight loss. So essentially it's a more efficient way of getting your walking training. Or at least that's what some people have been saying. You may have already seen this, and you might see other videos about this. Like I said, it is trending. I heard about it first from Coach Eugene. He has a great video on it, check it out. And while the exact benefits will probably vary from person to person, that's probably why you'll hear different stats about it being 20 times better, 30 times better, 100 times better than regular walking, it's probably gonna depend on the individual and also what you're comparing it to, comparing to regular walking, or comparing and sitting around. But personally I do like it. It is something that I think I will incorporate. And I think it's great for someone who already likes walking, or especially for someone who isn't quite sure where to start, but is open to walking. I think this can be a good, relatively time effective way of doing this. But there might be some ways you can make it better, or at least more suited to you. And I think I will do some laps while I do this. I'll do three minutes and then talk about it. And actually I might need to bring my camera so nobody steals it. And okay, that was three minutes. Three minutes isn't very long. It's about the length of a lot of songs. So if you want a little bit more fun way to do this, you could just like walk until your song changes, and then either speed up or slow down. But the first way I would try to improve this, or something I try to do anyway, and you don't have to do barefoot, a lot of people probably shouldn't, is intentional walking. So something I enjoy while I'm walking anyway, especially for exercise, is I would try to focus on the movement of my feet. And especially if you're able to feel your toes, and feel the bottom of your foot and how it's touching the ground. And it's not supposed to be some magical thing, and it can help you be more aware of your footing for something that you're doing anyway. So it's basically just like connecting to your feet as you're using your feet. And the reason I'm walking backwards is actually not a health benefit, but because sometimes I turn around and the camera's like, ah, we can't see his face. And then like zooms in on a leaf, then it's like a crystal clear leaf, but I'm blurry. So that's why I'm walking backwards right now. Okay, time to do the three minutes of fast walking. You're supposed to be able to speak short sentences. So for me, when I'm holding a camera, this is about the speed. I feel like I can go a little bit faster and speak short sentences, but then it feels like I'm like on the edge of running. So I'm just gonna do this. Roar. Okay, so that was three minutes of that, time to slow down again. And I will say that while my pulse is elevated as a train, it's nowhere close to jogging or even suddenly sprinting, of course. And if you're like me and you like to understand why something works, then we can talk about that a little bit, because while it's very important if something works, I also like to understand why, because it motivates me to do more when I can kind of feel the mechanisms behind it. Walking is a great accessible exercise, which is wonderful for a lot of people. But because it is accessible, I'll walk backwards so we don't do the blur thing. It's partially more accessible because it doesn't require a lot of strength or energy or impact to move. However, if we sometimes walk and then walk quickly, we may be able to recruit some of the larger, stronger muscle fibers, and those are the ones usually responsible for muscle and strength. So not only are we stronger in our lower body, which is very important, especially as we get older, because we don't want to fall, but sarcopenia, which doesn't sound good and isn't good because it's muscle loss, is also reduced if we incorporate this occasionally. And that's actually another way that I might make this walking better, or at least more suited to me, is using those three minutes while you're walking as a rest time and then doing some resistance exercise and getting the benefits that we discussed from that. In between, switching between slow and fast walking, and you can do different exercises, you can do squats, and you need different progressions. We have those on our website and in our app. Pushups, you can start from anywhere from like wall pushups to one arm pushups, squats. You can use something to assist yourself to do squats and work up to one arm, one leg squats. And if you've heard about that a lot, every day to this day, I still get messages on how do I get fit, how do I do more pushups, how do I get started, and this is something that we built on our website for free. You don't have to sign in to help you get started. So if you're wondering how to start, that is how I would start, and you can work this in with walking. We have a support board. If you need certified personal trainers to help you out, and if you don't want to read the stuff, you're not sure how to get started, just download the app, and it can tell you each day what to do, when to rest, and when to move on based on your feedback. And you can adjust at any time. Now to be fair, you might note that, oh, well this will throw off the cadence and make it a slightly longer. So yes, I would do one set, I would go walk for three minutes, and then you would come back, and then you would do another set of as many as you safely can or whatever you're aiming to hit that day. And yes, it does throw off the rhythm a little bit. It might be a little bit different than the benefits you read about, but you are getting quite a bit of benefit. This is all you're doing by adding resistance training, maybe some mobility training to your exercises. And if you do one set after each walk, that's six different exercise sets you can do. You could do like three different exercises that day, if not more. For only a few minutes more, maybe 35 to 40 minutes instead of 30 minutes, you're able to get the resistance training and the cardio and the walking benefits. That's honestly a very efficient effective workout, I would say, because you're basically making everything into like a super set. Okay, almost there, and this is perfect for one last set, because one thing that some people might want to do is you can combine the trend of rucking with this trend of interval walking. I think this might be upside down. Yep, it wasn't back upside down. I take no accountability. There was no big white arrow. And we haven't made a video about rucking yet, or I guess I would just call it weighted walking, but it has similar benefits to this interval walking training we've been talking about, because you're basically, again, adding slightly more resistance, you're getting a little bit more cardio required, getting a little bit more fiber recruitment. But on the other hand, especially depending on where you're walking, it can be slightly harder on you, because it's essentially like you're putting on weight temporarily. So this is not for everyone, especially if you are someone who may be on the heavier side, or you're trying to lose weight anyway. But I wouldn't worry about that too much, because a three to 400 calorie burn that we're adding to this is enough, if we do nothing else, and everything else is exactly the same, you don't eat more, you don't exercise more, it's enough to lose weight consistently over time. And if you're trying to lose weight, you're like, man, I don't want to miss out on the benefit of weighted walking. I would say this, the same four pull-ups, you are already doing weighted walking. And in fact, you have the weight attached to you, right? So I have to spend money on it. I think this was like $20. No, actually it was like $60. I spent $60 on this? Well, I should probably use this in more videos if I already spent the money for that. Maybe I will do a weighted walking video. But no, I mean that genuinely. If you are trying to lose weight, one potential benefit you have is you are already doing weighted walking. So if you think you can do like five pull-ups, and you're trying to lose weight, you have to wait to lose, congratulations. You're actually doing weighted pull-ups. So I'd spend money to have the weight attached to me. You have it pre-attached to you. But on the other hand, that is also another reason because we're talking to people of all different shapes and sizes here that you may want to be careful with any exercise, including walking. So you might hear this, I think, wow, it's low impact. Lots of people said it is good. Talk to your doctor, be careful. Because some people, especially ones who haven't exercised in a while or if you're on the heavier side or your joints are hurting a little bit, you might walk and then do the fast walking. And I'm like, man, I'm actually surprisingly sore. And then I don't want you to feel bummed out if you read about everyone else having good results. And you're like, man, maybe there's something wrong with me. But no, you're almost certainly not alone. Fitness is a journey and we all start somewhere. I'm gonna do my final lap here. All right, I believe that was the last lap. That was pretty cool. And it didn't take that long, even though the sun did set. If you are medically cleared for exercise and you're able to walk, you may want to give this a shot because it's pretty cool. And especially with its increasing popularity, the study happened a while ago, but there's an increasing amount of people being aware of this. I think this is something that'll be used by a lot of people. So you'll probably see maybe apps about it. Maybe we should add it to our app. But no, there's probably, you'll probably see other people talking about it. It's gonna be used from people just starting into fitness and for people that are very serious into fitness because a lot of those people are trying to lose a little bit of weight or dial in their calories a little bit. And this is one way where they can save 30 plus minutes a day. Something I would be curious about that I haven't looked that much into yet is how much this would increase appetite compared to regular walking. So the reason some sporty people, like people in general, like the gentle walking is because it's low impact, it's gentle, you get some cardio, and you burn calories for some people without an increased amount of appetite, which can help if they're trying to lose weight. But the extra fast walking, I wonder if that would increase appetite a little bit. Not entirely sure. I really enjoyed doing this video. Thank you so much for watching. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend. Found my keys and phone. I set them over there when it was still light and I had to look around for a few minutes.