 Hey friends, if you've been working out, but you've been stuck at a certain weight or exercise progression for a while, and it's making you big sad, don't be too big sad, the fix might be simpler than you think. Now, there is a super important concept that we had to learn in order to understand the video. Actually, two super important concepts. The first is that I have a stick, I found a stick, and I like this stick, and it's actually, I guess, similar to the color of my skin. And the second important concept is that it's pretty common for you to face some kind of plateau in your fitness journey, whether you're trying to lift more weight or learn an exercise like the planche or the human flag. You might be making a lot of progress at first, but eventually it slows down and almost seems to stop. And if you were to draw a graph of your progress, you might make a lot of newbie gains here, and then it slows down a little bit, which is normal, but if it starts to really completely stop, a lot of people think, well, maybe that's just my potential, and maybe I just need to be more patient. I made that mistake too, and while that's not impossible, it probably isn't the case for you. When you are doing daily workouts, when you're doing consistent workouts a few times a week, you should see incremental progress. Maybe not day to day, but week over week, definitely over month over month. And if you haven't seen progress month over month, there's a couple of different things that could be happening. One is that physics is broken specifically for you, or you might need to experiment with some kind of change, and it's probably the latter. Not impossible that physics is broken for you. I haven't rolled that out. I have a stick. So it's quite likely that we will need to make some kind of change, and I know change can be scary, but don't worry, a lot of people are going through this, so you are not alone, my friend. You have a lot of people to help you, but the change we make can make a wide difference in whether we're working on something that's ultimately distracting us and, in quotes, wasting our time, not something that's pushing us towards what our goal is, or something that can help us break through that plateau and make a lot of progress. And you'll be super muscular and handsome and beautiful, and all your dreams will come true, and you'll also be rich and have a fancy car. Maybe not all of those things, but I do have a stick. Story time, real quick. When I was learning calisthenics way back in the day, I was starting out, and I wanted to learn things, like the one-arm pull-up and the human flag. That was something that was really cool. And you'll see as my editor can probably put up a couple of videos of me doing the human flag. And I just wasn't making any progress. I was trying to be intelligent with my progression. So, like, going through wall push-ups, incline push-ups, regular push-ups. I didn't have to do all of those steps, but I was trying to start from the beginning. And the first one was supposed to just hang like this and build up to a few seconds. But I just wasn't able to do that. I'm like, hmm, well, I want to be smart. And I read a lot, and I saw a lot of videos saying, oh, if you skip progressions and you get impatient, that will lead to injury, and you won't make any progress, and you won't have a fancy sports car, and nobody will want to date you, and you won't be handsome and beautiful and extremely muscular. All those things would happen, and I didn't want that. So I wanted to stick to the early progressions. But I wasn't making any progress. I'm like, well, I'll just be patient. But weeks went by. Months went by. And I really wasn't making that much progress. Like, I was doing this, and I would just slide off. I would do this, and I'd be like, oh, slide off. And I'm like, hmm, well, I want to be diligent to that, and I don't want to overwork myself. This is early on. So I'll just do a few sets of that. And man, maybe I improved from, like, a one-second hold to a two- or three-second hold. It just wasn't really happening. But the good news is I was also working on other stuff, right? So balance routine. And I was working on stuff like the one-arm pull-up. And, huh, I was making progress towards that. I wasn't able to do the half-hold for a while. And as I got better and better at other exercises, I was like, interesting. I'm not making any progress on the human flag, even though we're making progress on exercises that work related muscles. Why is that? And the answer that I eventually found applies to both weightlifting and calisthenics and can hopefully save you years of progress. Because I wish I knew this from the beginning. But there's a reason we're at a playground right now. And it's not just so I can get some weird looks. But I was rewarded for consistency in my training. I was doing the same thing. And we heard a lot of fitness advice. Don't change. Don't get distracted. That's how other people don't make progress. You want to be different. But when I allowed myself to explore a different progression, which for the human flag was actually just this, I would find a swing set. I don't know if you can see me. Yeah, I'm looking at my monitor right now. And I would hang like this. So it wasn't even that good. It was like a diagonal hang. Some of these get really hot in the summertime. And as you can see, they're slippery. And it was only after a few weeks of doing this. And honestly, these might be a bit more slippery and wider and harder to grip than the ones I used back in the day. But something like this, basically doing a diagonal flag. And suddenly, I started making a lot more progress, which is interesting because I was working equally hard. I was being super consistent doing a different exercise that should still work my muscles. So why was it not working? Why was this so much better? Why was this the magic exercise that just doing a little bit more of helped me make a lot more progress that I wasn't making for months and months? And the simple answer for this is that some progressions are going to be better than others. So that was something I wish I knew when I was starting calisthenics. That there's many different ways to build up to an exercise, right? So think like one-arm pull-up. You can use bands. You can assist by holding your wrist. You can do archer pull-ups. You can assist with one finger. Some of those are going to help you make faster progress than others. But which ones are better, right? So there's kind of a deeper discussion with that. In this context, what I mean by better is an exercise that helps you target the things you want to target, including the limiting factors, but not have a limiting factor that's so limiting. So imagine if this thing were covered in oil, right? So if it were covered in oil and it was similar to the bar I was using before or a very thick bar, I probably wouldn't be able to do a flag on those, right? And it's because I couldn't grip it. Now, certainly I can train my grip. That's still valid. It might be a good grip strength exercise, but if I want to make progress on this, on the flag, or any exercise in particular, I want something that can work the things I want. And so I'm not falling off because I can't hang on. I'm falling off because of core strength, because of my shoulders, because of my lats, and other things I need to make progress on in order to build up to the things I want. Now, there are other factors, and that's how I might apply to weightlifting. But hang on. I'm going to see if I can do a clutch flag on these instead. I might slide down as I'm doing them. Okay, I'm covering my mic, but I'm trying to adjust my form. People are walking by, so I'm saying hi to them as they walk by. So there's not that many weird looks. Most people are actually pretty friendly. And this was years ago, but after doing that for a few weeks, I was able to build up to a shoddy-looking human flag, albeit with bent arms. These are probably too slippery for me to do the human flag on. Maybe I should practice on these. And to tie this up in a separate but related concept, which might apply to weightlifting more than calisthenics, but still applies, is sometimes there are other changes we need to make. If we're making a lot of progress with weightlifting, you're not really using different progressions in that sense, where you're adding weight or reducing weight. So if you stop making progress, you also want to look at if you are resting enough, if you're eating enough, right? So if you're putting on muscle and you suddenly have more muscle and then suddenly you aren't making progress, maybe you're not making progress because you need to adjust how much protein you're taking in, how many calories you're taking in. Your nutrition can play a large role in your fitness goals, and sleep, really important for rest. If you don't rest, you're probably not optimally growing. And by rest, I mean rest days, of course, but also sleep. And if none of that is working, and I'm super excited about this section because I get to use my stick, you may still want to make a change to your exercise. So with calisthenics, you can change your grip. So if you're doing pull-ups like this, you can also try them underhand. You can try them neutral like this. And with weight, you can still do that, but some people don't want to change their technique. I get that. You can instead change your rep range. And when I say rep range, I usually also mean changing the weight. So if you're usually in like the 9 to 15 range, try a little bit in the 5 to 7. Or if you're usually doing 3 to 5, try a little bit in the 9 to 12. Try that for a few weeks and come back. A lot of people have tried this, and it sometimes works as a way to break plateaus. Now, there are different reasons why that might be. A lot of people schedule this as periodization, and there's different theories on why it works. And you may not believe it works. I'm not going to try to convince you in this video, but I know a lot of people try it. And that was something I wish I had learned earlier on in my fitness journey. That yes, being consistent is important, but also introducing a change, especially when it's something that you want to work on anyway. So if you're doing bench press, and you want to be a better bench presser, then exploring different rep ranges probably isn't going to hurt that goal. So you can stay consistent, and yet still explore, and continue to make progress for years to come. There's a free fitness routine on our website with many different variations that you can choose from so you can get started from almost any fitness level. It's free, you don't have to sign up, and you can probably get started two a day from your room if you want. And make changes when you need them. And there's a book version and ebook version if you want a book copy to keep you motivated. Thank you so much for watching, and have a beautiful day, my friend. That's a train. And here's my stick.