 So we've had social media for over 20 years now, and while we've done some really cool things with it, like bringing communities together, we also seem to be known for sparking some wild ideas and crazy trends. I say we because social media platforms are just empty vessels without humans, and maybe some intelligent robots, so ultimately we are deciding what to put on that platform. And every once in a while, even if you're not someone who uses social media, you'll see an article or news tidbit about some trend. And while all kinds of people start these trends, the fitness and health industry in particular seems to have a reputation and talent for spreading some crazy workout and some crazy workout and diet ideas. Now some are misunderstood and aren't that crazy after we understand the reasoning behind them, like even calisthenics was considered more alternative at one point and still kind of is. But others are chin scratchers, they really would make me stroke my beard if I could grow a beard. And I'm not talking about the people who disagree on the importance of full range of motion, optimal programming, or even different dietary preferences. In fact, the vast majority of fitness channels that I know and like make excellent content, even if they don't always agree with each other. I've also said some fitness things people may disagree with. And that's super understandable because I also disagree with my past self on some issues that I've learned more on, and they'll probably continue to happen. But occasionally you'll see some bizarre claims that make you go, man, fitness influencers are weird. I always have to be somewhat tongue in cheek when I use the I word. Just every once in a while, you'll come across something like the all banana diet, the new weight loss sensation, bananas. If you haven't seen any yet, then you may eventually encounter them because some of them do go pretty viral. And while I do like some weirdness, this brings up a good question. Why does this happen? I might be somewhat biased because I see a lot of it. But why do fitness and health channels in particular seem to circulate bizarreness? And more importantly, what can we do to change this in the future? Now there are many valid answers that could apply here that I could discuss in the video. But being in this space for a few years now, I see a very obvious one that I want to highlight, because I totally understand the push to make wild claims. I don't think we should necessarily, but I understand. And to explain some wild claims, I'm going to make a seemingly wild claim myself. And that is, there's not that much new in fitness. Now, of course, there's still millions, hopefully billions of people into fitness. And like most popular fields, there's new research and exercise science coming out all the time that gives us better insight into how things work and how we can better achieve our goals. And that's awesome. There are plenty of channels that cover that debate interpretations, and hopefully help people achieve new heights, greater heights than ever before. The idea being that with new information, we can be better, faster, stronger. And while I find that cool a lot of times, I also understand that not everyone does. Like my grandmother probably wouldn't care about long length partials or mile reps. She just wanted to get up and down the stairs better. If I had to guess, staying up to date on the newest research probably appeals to more advanced people or ambitious beginners, which is awesome. But there are probably more people casually in the fitness who don't care that much, at least yet, and probably for good reason, too. While new stuff can be exciting, the fundamentals of fitness really haven't changed. While different trainers will recommend different programs and nutrition plans, the foundation really hasn't changed and may not ever. So let's just stick with what's the new exciting things with clients and just stick with what's tried and true because at least we know what that gets. You find an exercise at a level that you can do competently and safely, and you make it harder over time as you become more able. Then you eat, live and train to support your goals. That's pretty much it. Easier said than done sometimes. Of course, I understand. But that's usually the basic layout and spend that for quite some time. But wait, why does it matter if there's not that much new in fitness? Why can't we watch just to learn helpful tips or something? A lot of my own fitness content is just trying to share helpful things I've learned. But this is where it gets interesting because fitness channels usually have to make a decision at some point on whether they want to educate or entertain. Educate meaning you're trying to improve someone's fitness in some way or teach them something. And entertainment meaning you're making something that's fun to watch, which can also be inspiring. I love entertainment content. A lot of channels do a hybrid, pun intended, as usual, but most tend to lean one way or the other. I try to do both depending on my mood that day. And I make no claims that I do that. I do them well, but either one is perfectly fine, of course. And there are examples of channels that do really well in either genre. But it can be helpful to know that more viewers are on social media for entertainment, or at least edutainment, which is a combination. So while both education and entertainment channels can do really well, there's usually more view potential if you're good at entertainment. And while that seems obvious and almost irrelevant for viewers that just want to see good videos, it's very relevant to content creators in any field, fitness or otherwise. Because whether or not they realize it, they are encouraged to care about views and care quite a lot, actually. In almost every content creator dashboard I've seen on any social media platforms, views are usually front and center as the key metric, sometimes next to followers or maybe watch time and reach, of course. They give you up and down arrows and recommendations on your channel growth based on your views over time. It's very commonly used as a metric for evaluating how your content is doing. If you make a living from social media, it's almost always tied into your income somehow. Now, of course, views aren't inherently bad. And more views over time usually means growth. However, this creates an interesting position for channels that want to make educational content. Because, as we know, entertainment content in general usually gets more views. Think like game show style content. It appeals to more people because while not everyone cares about an education subject, just about everyone wants to be entertained. So if you do entertainment and you want to get more views, those two goals are pretty aligned. Whereas if you decide you're just trying to educate, then you have inherently already truncated your view potential before you even post anything. Once again, this is not necessarily bad. If you're a content creator, rest assured, you can get millions of views doing all kinds of different videos. You can thrive. A lot of people, myself included, are really glad that educational content is out there. I don't think I'm alone when I say that I've learned things from social media. Yes, you have to be careful who you listen to and choose good sources. But it's hard to deny that good information is out there if you know where to look. And it's often also entertaining, which is a plus. But while views are a reasonable metric for how entertaining something is, they're not always the best metric for how educational something is. Now, I'd imagine quality and views are correlated there. But you could do a great job educating on a niche topic like pinky pain and you still won't get that many views because thankfully not everyone has pinky pain. I just got a twinge when I said that. Imagine if a university professor, instead of making slides and giving lectures, instead breaks his classroom sessions into multiple videos and then evaluates how good each lecture is based on how many views he got. It is a metric, but maybe not the only or best one to look at. Views can give better insight on width, how widely something has spread, but they don't always tell the full story on depth, how deeply something has impacted the people watching. Like that video on pinky pain might have gotten a thousand views, but saved someone's life and you wouldn't know unless they told you. Similarly, going back to fitness, I've helped some personal trainer friends of mine who wanted to go on social media. They are great trainers who have lots of experience working with lots of clients of all different types, but the information they were putting out was a bit too dry. It was good, but not the most interesting or engaging and they wanted me to help them adjust that. Social media content usually needs to be interesting to do well. Entertainment content is inherently interesting. Educational content can also be interesting, but they both often require something new. This is where the all banana diet comes in. For many fields outside of fitness, there are new things happening whether you try to find them or not. Casual news channels are a great example of this. You can cover anything from current affairs to internet drama, and as long as you're pretty entertaining, then you can have a pretty long-lived career just opening the news tab every day and reading what you see and offering your take and your spin on it. I like those channels. Gaming channels have new games coming out, vlog channels can involve trying new experiences around the world, music channels can discuss new music. Fitness channels, like I mentioned, there is some new research and sometimes some new inventions and new products coming out, but I don't feel like that much changes in the field. Now, this isn't exclusive to fitness, it happens to other fields, but it does seem to be a characteristic. So both education and entertainment channels will look for new things, new ways to present things, fun styles to explore. I think this is largely a good thing, because while the information is the same, people now have more options to find a style that appeals to them. Like, my information on push-ups isn't new, I just presented it in a way that some people seem to like and hopefully it helps some people as a result. And every once in a while, there will be some new breakout channels that are especially interesting because they're extra qualified, present new information, or popularized as a method that resonates with a lot of people. It helps if you have a theory, some new idea you're presenting, or maybe you are the new idea. Ideally, this would be a feature that helps new good ideas rise to the top to help the most helpful content circulate to people. But because of this effect, there is a pressure on people to find new things and maybe reinvent the wheel when it doesn't need to be reinvented, and try to make new theories just for the sake of making them. When you're the originator of this new thing, then you have tribal knowledge that people can only seemingly get from you. So why is Hampton only eating bananas? How does he get enough protein? Can you eat only bananas? What are the benefits? Oh, he grows his bananas in this special way. Wait, do bananas have protein? And the thing is, a lot of channels don't need this flood of attention. Just to be clear, most channels, after they get up and going, can grow and be fine just making good content, education, or entertainment. You don't need anywhere near peak views to make a living and continue growing. But partially because of how the metrics are set up, it can feel like you're stagnating if you're not constantly pushing for new things. And, unlike many other fields, there's not that much happening in fitness. So after you go through your opinion on training shoulders, training abs, training legs, you may be wondering what else to say. Which is funny because that shouldn't be a bad thing, by the way. If you're a teacher and you have taught so thoroughly and so well that you don't have that much left to teach your students, that could be considered a sign of success. You haven't stagnated. You've achieved your goal. Think of a master writing a book. Finishing the book isn't a bad thing. It shouldn't be a bad thing. It's what you're supposed to do. It's what people want you to do, right? But making social media content isn't like writing a book. You're not supposed to finish. You're supposed to provide a steady stream of things that people want to view. Which is understandable. When I'm really into something, I want to discuss it. I want to watch other people discussing it. Even if I already know the stuff. However, this mindset shift can be difficult at first for people who start out trying to be educators or just trying to stand out. And think they're trying to grow into their maximum potential. And of course, I know some people just want stardom for the sake of stardom. Some people absolutely know that they're scamming people with their bizarre theories. They may or may not care. I'm not saying every charlatan is a misunderstood genius. But the novelty of what they're doing is why you sometimes hear more about them than, say, my friend talking about how to calculate your resting metabolic rate. That said, none of these are really unfixable problems. I love having a fitness channel. I now also have a podcast channel and business channel for talking about other topics. But I love coming back to fitness and talking about some new grip exercise I've been trying or making videos like this. Thank you all so much for being here. I really appreciate you watching. As for what can change, well, as viewers, it helps to know why some of these trends are popping up. And know that while we do have some colorful characters, most fitness content creators are just happy to make a living sharing what they love. Probably applies to most content creators, period. And as content creators, first of all, if what you're doing is working, helping people, and you enjoy it, don't change anything on my account. This video is just an observation because people have asked me why fitness channels are so weird. However, if you're trying to teach and help and you want to change, then some people find success from separating their social media content from their pure education content. If you remember the college professor comparison, you can have your lectures, your book, your course, etc. somewhere else. It can be free or it can be paid. And you can use your regular social media posting to share related content. That can be your study stream. You can feel free to introduce some entertainment aspects like reviewing different workout trends, trying different inventions, or collaborating with others. This helps your knowledge, your book, so to speak, stay pure while you continue to grow and thrive elsewhere. Plus, you can always write more books. And if you're into entertainment or you have entertainment aspects, then in my opinion, you're never really going to run out of stuff to make. There's always some new thing you can try or someone you can collaborate with, and that's awesome. As long as it doesn't hurt people or obstruct their freedom, pursue what excites you. And you probably already know, but you also inspire a lot of people, even if it's just by being funny and absolutely jacked at the same time. People love funny and muscular people. So if you want, you can do the same thing. You can direct people to your book or other resources that can help people achieve their goals, fitness or otherwise. You don't have to make the book or resource. Just whatever you find helpful. You can put this on another website, or you can just do occasional content on it. That's what I have for today. I have a free fitness routine on my website that can work for all levels of fitness, including beginners. You can buy a book or e-book if you like books or e-books. There's a fitness app in beta that we're about to make massive improvements on. Excited for that. We'll talk about that soon. And free support from certified personal trainers. Add this link if you need help. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend. It's definitely cold now.