 Consistency is vastly more important than most people realize. And it is the thing that is stopping many of us from achieving the goals we want, which are actually closer than we realize if we just stuck to something and committed for a little bit. And here are three reasons why that you may not have considered yet. And the first is that you can have a perfect system, but if you don't follow it, then you won't get anything from it. And most of us already realize this, right? In fitness and beyond, you could have a perfect trainer, a perfect gym, a perfect nutrition plan, but if you don't do the thing, then you might as well not have them. But most of us do the thing somewhat. We follow our workout routines. We follow our practice regimens at least somewhat, but there are some off days and some days where we don't do anything, but then there are some days when we feel very motivated or like, yes, we'll do some more, which is fine. A lot of people go through this and it's, of course, it's okay to have off days, but I want to give a visual for how much difference this can make if we just try to stick with something realistically. If you've ever driven with someone, like on a road trip and you're just cars together, if someone keeps driving, but you pull over and you stop to get gas or you stop to take a rest and then you get back on, you may realize that that person is quite far away. They didn't speed up. You just stopped and they kept going, right? And sometimes you have to drive a lot faster just to catch up, don't break the speed limit, be safe. And if you don't drive, then you might notice this when you walk, if you're walking with someone, let's say, oh, like I'm just gonna pause and tie my shoes. Oh, I have a text that I'm going to answer. And these can all be important things. You should tie your shoes and you should answer important texts. But then when you're done, you're so absorbed in that, you look at the other person and they're like, whoa, man, why'd you run away? They didn't. You were just stopping doing something else. And if you want to do math, you can kind of think of it like this. Let's say you have one car driving at 50 miles an hour for 30 minutes. And then you have a second car driving the exact same path, but the only differences are you start about three minutes later, you do some prep, and then 10 minutes into the trip, you stop for another three minutes because something came up and you do another one 10 minutes later for another three minutes. Well, how fast would you have to drive? These are times we take off. Well, in order to get to the same spot, you have to drive like 75 miles an hour. I actually did the math on a third, so it's actually 3.33 minutes. And if you've ever driven, then you'll know the difference between 50 miles an hour and 75 miles an hour is quite a substantial difference. That can be the difference between chill, driving through town and freeway driving. Neither is really that fast. Sometimes people are like, now I am done. I can go way faster on the auto bond, which I've been on once. It was pretty fun. And I say this not to encourage you to think that you can never take breaks. Of course you can take breaks. What I want people to realize is that when we talk about consistency and sticking with something, there's often a counter from certain parts where people say, well, no, I want to watch my mental health. I want this to, you know, I don't want to just focus only on this and forget the important things. And I actually find this to be mentally healthy when we realize that we don't have to go 100% or go faster, in this case, do the 75 and go faster, we can do things at a normal pace. But if we stick to it, we can still get quite far as someone who might be, in your own words, maybe more talented or maybe they started ahead. But if we just keep going, then we can go quite far just from that. And of course we all have different priorities. Of course, right? So the reason I am not more advanced in fitness, the reason I am not more advanced in social media, the reason I bring up those two things is because those are two things that a lot of people watching this know me for. So there's fitness and social media. And I have really prioritized my family. So it's always been my top priority, taking care of family. And as a result, I have a very good relationship with my wife and I considered myself to be very blessed for that. But I also could have done that and been more consistent with fitness. I also could have done that and been more consistent with social media and business stuff, right? There wasn't always a trade-off. Sometimes it was just mismanagement of time, which I think we all do and we're learning to get better. And I bring this up because we tend to have immediate ideas. That's why I'm bringing it up early in the video, where you hear like, oh, like being consistent, but I chose something more important. I chose my family, I chose my friends. And as someone who did that, I know I could have done that and made more progress on other things. If I just stuck with something and accepted that some days I won't be as good. Some days I won't be at 100% and doing my absolute best work, but I'm doing up, I'm showing, I'm practicing, and I'm making incremental improvement. And I can do all of that and still be mentally healthy. I can still do that and actually be happier because I feel satisfied when I'm keeping a promise to myself and staying consistent. And the number two benefit of consistency is measurement. It can help us determine whether things are good or bad. So we know from the first part that we can have a perfect system, but if we don't follow it, then we won't get anywhere. However, we usually don't know whether a system is perfect or not. It usually isn't, but we don't know if a system is good or not until we follow it for a while. But you may have experienced this. If you follow a recipe, but you don't follow it to a tee, and you're like, eh, this recipe, you know, it really wasn't that good. Can you say the recipe was bad or did you just take a different path and you're not even sure if the recipe was good, right? And if you measure a workout routine, you tried it for a few weeks, a few months, and someone says, well, was any good? It is harder for you to say whether it was good or bad if you didn't follow it to a tee, right? If you're supposed to do it six days a week, but you did it two days a week, and some workout routines can do that, but you're supposed to follow it six days a week. Then in my opinion, you don't really know if that particular workout routine was working for you. Let's say it was a nine week program. You don't really know your evaluation of those nine weeks because you didn't follow it to a tee. Now, sometimes of course, you get a weekend two weeks in and you immediately know this is not for you and you can change, that is fine. But when we want to give something a fair or worldly doodle, when we really want to try something, then we usually have to follow it to a tee and then we say, ah, this is not for me. This is not something that's gonna work. Let me change. And this happens across every field, across every person. Most people will have to change at least sometime in their lives. We change schools, we change careers, we change romantic partners. That's why we date, right? So sometimes we try something and we really try to go somewhere else. But if we don't give something a fair try, if we don't actually follow it consistently, then it's hard to evaluate whether it's good or bad. And if we think of our goal, our destination, where we want to be, we usually have to try a few things in order to get there and be like, hmm, here are five things that can work. Ah, this one didn't work, this one didn't work. And the faster we can stick to something and evaluate whether or not it's actually good for us or the fair assessment, the faster we can move on, the faster we can find it. My friend was telling me the other day that on average people have to go through like seven different therapists in order to find the one they think works the best for them. I don't know how accurate that is. And I don't know, it's probably depends on the country, the field and the individual, of course. Some people will find it on their first try, which is awesome. Some people might take a little bit longer, have to try a little bit more. But my point is you may not know whether or not something even works for you until you give it a try and how you go there consistently. If the therapist says, hey, I would like to meet with you once a week and you're like, eh, I'll show up every six months. Then you don't necessarily know if that therapist was the one for you. Maybe they just give you a bad signal, but eventually if you find something where you're like, hmm, this is a positive signal, I'm not sure yet, you're going to have to give it a fair trial and that can usually be done through consistency. And number three, consistency is important for feedback loops. This is probably the shortest, simplest one and it applies more to things where we practice, but also things where we find. So think about music or fitness or things. And you talk to coaches and you ask them, how often per week should I practice, should I train? There's different terminology depending on what field it is. And you'll notice that a lot of good coaches will bring up this concept of like, oh yeah, I would like for you to do this a few days a week and you can do like six, you can do every day, you can do five. And then around the time of two or three, depending on what it is, a lot of them will bring up this concept of like, you really don't want to go below this because then you start not remembering as much of the things you learned from your previous session. If you're learning guitar, for example, you do once a week, if you'd practice once a day, you might remember the things you learned yesterday, the day before, day before, even if you're not making that much progress, whereas let's use a more extreme example, if you pick up and practice the guitar very intentionally for an hour, but you do that only once a month, you might not have enough feedback cycles to where it's like, oh, this didn't work or this will work, or like, what did I learn the last time I practiced? So the more commonly we do something, the more often, the more consistently we do something, the faster we can go through those feedback cycles. It's similar to measurement, but in this case, it's small little adjustments like, oh, this will work for me, this, I don't really like that. Oh, if I use this position, or if I try this new technique, this can work really well, and it stays in our fresh memory, the more consistently we do it. If we do it off and on, we might still learn, right? So there's a scale of this, right? If you do it like once a day, once a week, two or three times a week, you can usually, in most things, get away with a few times a week, but when we start to drift beyond that a little bit, it gets a little bit harder. And now I wanna talk about the mental health aspects of this again. There's some pushback against people who say, well, I don't wanna do this consistently and sacrifice my mental health. Of course, find something sustainable. To use the car example, the fastest way to get there is to go the speed limit, of course, within the speed limit, go as fast as you can, as soon as possible, and take no breaks. But reality often isn't that, right? We're not all cars, and even using the car example, sometimes you have to stop for gas. 100%, of course, you wanna find something sustainable for you, you wanna find something sustainable. But especially for things like fitness, and I wanna go too broad, we can usually improve our tolerance and frequency over time. Meaning, when people first get started working out, I don't advise them to go too hard yet. You go a little bit softer at first. Go a little bit softer at first, right? So you don't get too sore, and you ease yourself in. But after you're used to that, you can start doing more and more days. Right, you can do more frequency. And it takes a while for us to develop a habit. So you're like, man, doing this every day, the same as like a lot. But think about all the things you do daily, right? Well, all the things you regularly like brush your teeth, or shower, or change your clothes, or all these habits that you have that are ingrained. And I bring this up because there is a degree of automaticity. It's my first time trying to pronounce that word. But the theory to which you do something automatically, we do something without thinking. And it is increasingly embedded over time, right? There are some studies on habit building which show that this can range from a few weeks to like a year. But after you get used to it, you start doing it automatically. To where, so you're like, man, I don't think I can do, I don't think I can commit to like once a day consistently. You wanna consider your goals too. Let's say guitar. If you don't want to be like a professional player, practice whatever you want. Practice whatever you want, right? But if you have goals, you'll hit, I want to be very good. And you're practicing once a week. Do your goals match your actions and your ambitions. It's something to consider, right? Because ultimately you can choose whatever you want. But if you have big ambitions, you usually have to have big actions. And I don't want someone to be too disappointed. But you can rest assured that even if something doesn't seem sustainable now, you can work your way up to where that becomes more comfortable. And it actually might feel uncomfortable to not do something. Just some thoughts. I have really been trying to focus on consistency for myself and others. It is something that I'm trying to build. So whenever I have a goal, I want to put it into my system. And it's not always easy at first, but I want to increase it over time. That is a train. Thank you so much for watching. Have a beautiful day, my friend.