 bitcoin bitcoin, bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin bitcoin or dumbbell if that exists. You start with a weight you can do and then you work your way up as you get stronger. Small stick and then big stick. And you can do the same thing with pull-up variations. Like I say a lot, there are many different types of pull-ups. Wall pull-ups are fairly easy. One-arm pull-ups are fairly hard. And there are some very strong people now who once couldn't do a pull-up. There are many variations in between so you can find one you can do and work your way up as you get stronger. And that's why you can do a pull-up, my friend. 2025 version. I think the 2020 version was filmed with the front camera of my phone. Good times though. So we're gonna find a variation we can do competently and safely and we're gonna practice it every week until we hit a certain goal of sets and reps. And when we hit that, we'll know we're strong enough to move on to a slightly harder variation. I think that's it. And I remember being confused five years ago too. Okay, the first variation that I recommend people start with is something called wall pull-ups, which is interesting because there's not a wall around here and they don't really look like pull-ups, but they kind of look like this. And a lot of people will laugh and say, well, this doesn't feel like an exercise. Even if they don't think they're very fit, they think this is too easy for them. However, some people need to start with this. I would consider it similar to bench pressing a bar. Admittedly, a very light bar. And this is a way to practice the pulling motion, especially if you're recovering from an injury. So it feels fairly easy, but do it for high reps and try to practice the motion. And this is a good way to start building good motion patterns and start building good form habits. So a good rule of thumb for all the pull-up variations I'll talk about is you can bring your shoulders back and down. Some people say try to imagine trying to put your shoulder blades into your back pocket, and this can help you feel and activate your back if that's an issue. However, if you feel like it's too easy, you just want something a little bit harder, you can kind of do this. Spread your feet a little bit like this and pull. That way you're at a little bit more of an angle, and this will translate smoothly to the next exercise. It might feel a bit odd because you might have to bend at the top here. Alternatively, you can also just use one arm, which seems advanced, but isn't really because I guess you are moving almost double the weight, but the weight itself isn't that much. So a lot of people can handle this, and this might seem a little bit easier. We do want something that's a little bit easier to hold onto. That's why we stopped using walls because people were having issues trying to hold onto the wall. You want a pole or tree, make sure it's secure and safe, and just pull like this. Who knew you were such a tree hugger? And actually you can do around three sets of 50 wall pull-ups, which I know a lot of people will find relatively easy, but still congratulations on your achievement. You're ready to move on, and you're well on your way. You can do something called horizontal pull-ups, and you can find something around chest height, or as I say now, sternum height. You can use rings like this, the underside of a table, a secure railing, anything that's secure and safe that you can hold onto without fear of slipping. I want to make sure these are even. Helps if you have numbered straps. And then last part is pretty important because while I'm a fan of training your grip, and while pull-ups are a good grip exercise as well, if you find yourself slipping off before you can really train your back or your arms, then you may not be getting the full benefit of the exercise. So try to get something that you can grip, and some people are against those, but if you get some gloves or some pull-up straps to help you train your pull-ups, and afterwards you can do some hanging from a bar with your hands, then you can train your grip that way and get the best of both worlds. The second thing I would say is that when you do something around chest height, and some of you may have been doing this for a while and have noticed this kind of subconsciously, but when you use a higher angle, the exercise becomes easier. However, you might find that as you go up, you're not really quite engaging your back that much. There's quite a bit of bend in your arm, so it becomes a little bit more bicep-heavy like this. It's almost kind of like you're doing this at the top, which is not to say it's necessarily wrong. It's good for your biceps and your brachialis, so you can get stronger that way. But if you want a little bit more consistent back engagement, instead of leaning and using a higher angle like this, you can use a lower angle, uh-oh, but you can just bend your legs like this, and you might find that you can engage your back and feel it engage quite a bit more, which is always fun. And you can extend your legs if you want to instead make it a little bit harder. So instead of just the angle right here to make it easier and harder, there's also knee bend, or I guess you could do, never mind, and I thought you could spread your feet, but the straddle doesn't really feel right to me. If it feels good for you, go ahead. By the way, if you want to build a pull-ups and beyond, push-ups and beyond, squats and beyond, we have a free fitness routine on our website. It's adjustable, so you can get started from almost any fitness level, and you can probably start from home today. You don't have to sign up. Check it out. There's the book and e-book version if you just want a handy reference and an app that I will soon have a major update on. Can't wait to talk about that. Okay, I took a break to give a friend a ride, and I kind of forgot where I was. Advanced horizontal pull-ups, right? They're like regular horizontal pull-ups, but advanced. And you may notice that I haven't lowered the rings quite that much, and I'm still keeping my knees bent, because I feel like that just makes a smoother pull sometimes, or a little bit more stable. By the way, if you shake on rings, I've done a lot of pull-ups, and I still shake a little bit on rings. I don't think it's that uncommon. But yes, whether through bending your legs or adjusting the angle, you can find a slightly harder variation. And I used to say it's round hip height. This one's actually a little bit higher, as you can see. I didn't have to lower it quite as much. Actually, the one before was just here, because I was bending my knees a little bit. But bending over here, here, I don't want to show skin on YouTube, but it's about the height of my belly button. It's a belly button height for me. But I don't know how accurate that is, because my wife's belly button is quite a bit higher than mine, despite me being slightly taller. I lowered the camera angle a little bit, so you can see me a little bit better. But doing these relatively easier variations compared to pull-ups, is a good time to practice your timing, especially if you get quite good at these. You're like, I'm ready to move on, and you're not quite sure if you want to move on. You can spend some time on your timing. Really dial in your form. Try to make each inch of the movement feel intentional. You're always in control. You can try something like two seconds up, one second pause, two seconds down. Some people do one second up, one second pause, one second down. Or if you want to control the eccentric, which is popular nowadays, you can do two seconds down or more. The eccentric part of the movement is just when your muscles are lengthening and you're going down pretty much. And there's a factor in muscle growth, tendon strength, things like that. And that actually ties into our next step because as you master those and you can hit the goal of sets and reps, then you'll have a couple things you can do. You can get pretty close to doing a full pull-up right now, but you might not quite be there. So the next step that I usually have people do is to actually raise these a little bit. I'll have to even them out in a second. Just so you can barely hang onto them while sitting on the ground. Then you can pull your shoulders back and down and lift yourself up. And you can do jackknife pull-ups like so. And as you'll be able to see better from a sideways angle, the bottom part of this, you can start a little behind, is pretty much a vertical pull, similar to a full pull-up. And the top part is similar to a horizontal pull-up. So it's a similar blend of both. And you can start to get used to the idea of vertical pulling from the side like this. You may notice that at the top, that thing happens to where you have to bend your arm. So you can adjust a little bit, slide back a little bit to where you can feel like you're still using your chest. Some people can feel their chest a lot more if they try to do something called a proud chest position. You can look it up. Basically, you're trying to touch your chest to the bar or rings or whatever in this case, even if you can't. But the idea and the intent of that can help you activate your back a little bit more. That feels good to some people rather than just keeping it neutral. Both have their applications, so I'll just try and use whatever is easiest for you right now as you're learning the movement. And there's also basically a version. See, in 2025, we have more options here where you can start with bent knees and then you try to pull up like this. So just like the previous exercises, you can bend your knees a little bit and you can make the exercise a little bit easier as well as adjust positioning that can work for you. However, you may notice or at some point you might realize, wow, I'm just like, I'm basically doing a pull up that's being assisted by a squat like this. And yes, you basically are and you can build up to a pull up this way. Basically, what you can try to do and have the intent to do is basically does this, a tucked pull up, I guess. Or some people like to do an L-sit pull up like this, but you're assisting yourself with your legs. So you pull in, I can't quite do that, assist a little bit more, boom, go down. As you push yourself, you might find it a little bit harder to find the balance of trying to pull rather than squat, which may or may not be an issue for you, but it confuses some people. So let's try different options. So if you want to train your grip afterwards, after you do your pull set, then you can just do a couple hangs like this. You see my feet aren't touching the ground, but if you can't quite do that, you can also hang for like a minute or so, assisting with your legs like this. You can assist with one, you can march, you can just experiment a little bit, but try to build up to a couple of sets, up to 60 seconds, maybe two minutes, assisting as you need. I'm showing it in a full pull up position, so straight hang, but you can also do it in horizontal hangs, advanced horizontal hangs. Do that after your pull sets, because if you exhaust your grip beforehand and then you do your pull sets, you might have extra issues during your pull sets. Okay, as you hit the goal standard of that, and maybe even before, you'll notice that you get closer and closer to a full pull up, and I've learned that regardless of what I say, most people will try it because they're excited. They maybe have never done a pull up before, haven't done a pull up in a while, and they want to be able to get up to that point to where they can finally pull up their body weight and go down. And yes, that is really cool. Congratulations on making it so far. And what I've learned over the past few years and the many, many people talking about this is people cross the finish line as in get to their first full pull up in different ways. Some people, they just keep trying. So they go like, hmm, I'm almost there. Oh, I can feel like, I can feel it. And they start like this. They try that for a few weeks. Eventually, they pull a little bit higher. Like, man, I'm almost there. I can't quite get the top, but I'm almost there. And just basically do that for a few sets before they do their regular pulls. And that is one way of getting there. And if you can stay safe and do that, that's absolutely awesome. Another thing that I never really personally liked, but can't deny, has worked for a lot of people, is basically climbing up. That's why I have this on here. So you find your way up and you just do the negative portion of the exercise and you slowly lower. You may not be able to pull yourself back up, but you can control the descent. And then you go back up like this and then you try again. Now, you might swing, which might make it harder, but I would say that if you can't quite get it that slow, if you go up and you go like, I would be careful because you don't want to hurt yourself. Your muscles tend to develop faster than your joints. So you might be strong enough, but you might injure yourself. You don't want to injure yourself because that might set you back a few weeks or months. I would say the minimum is if you can lower yourself for about five seconds. Some would say to where you're able to control every inch of the movement. That's also not a bad idea, but where you can go like this, you're always in control. You can go up, but you can always slowly lower yourself down. Again, there's still a little bit of shaking. And you may notice that you start to crinkle up or you might feel like you're getting blisters at first. I think a lot of people go through that and mine just turn into calluses over time. So that works for some people and if it works for you, absolutely awesome. You don't necessarily have to do it before or after the jackknife pull-ups. You can do them kind of together or you can do them after. It really depends on how you're doing them because they can be easier or harder depending on how you're doing them. But I get that isometrics are boring to some people and they really just want to move up and down and you might find that it's easier to go, ugh, you can do the bottom part like this. You're not doing quite full range of motion, but it is a progression, especially if you follow that with horizontal pull-ups, with jackknife pull-ups, something full range of motion. So you're doing half range, harder, more weight, then you do full range, slightly lighter weight. You're working the same muscles, good stuff. But regardless of what you choose, you may find that after a little while of trying, you'll be able to pull yourself up, your full body weight, with just your arms. And that is absolutely awesome. Congratulations. And hey, you might find that different pulling positions, underhand or neutral grip like this, might be harder or easier for you, but I consider all of them pull-ups. I know that some people are like, whoa, but underhand is called chin-ups. But I call these underhand pull-ups because I never liked the word chin-up. It always feels like I'm barely getting my chin over the bar and either way you're pulling yourself up. There's no law saying I have to call them chin-ups, underhand pull-ups. If I'm ever president of the universe, that's what I'll change. If you like these rings, we do sell them in our shop. I like them because they allow my hands to turn as I pull up. But we also have a video showing you how to make them at home for free if you want to save some money. So thank you so much for the wonderful feedback and the wonderful support. A lot of this would not have been possible without you. So I never want to take it for granted. I always want to be appreciative. Thank you so much. And fitness is a journey. And I am here to support you how I can. I am proud. All the wonderful people telling me your stories about how you did your first pull-up, your push-up, your squat, your fitness goals, and the good things that are happening to you in life. I love hearing that. Thank you so much for sharing. Have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend.