 3-0-4-phouseouseouse, of being a Sigma male about 11 hours ago, I can't fully tell you, but I can show you the requirements. And there are many. But those who do have the patience to go through the necessary steps will truly set themselves apart. I read in an article that this conveyed power and aura. Now everyone and their mama seems to know that being a Sigma male means you have cars, money, and women. But I can tell you that's not true. It is a state of mind. However, in my case, it is true. So I'm gonna show you some cars. We might have to adjust the camera for this one. Now I was assured by my friend who has seen a car too in his day that this is one of the most efficient models out there. By golly, it doesn't even have windows or mirrors or lights. And boy, I tell you the way it handles, it's nothing short of miraculous. Listen to this. Do you hear any engine noise? Exactly. Now there are a couple of features that I could... Hang on. Go over Hampton. Oh, okay, sorry. I'll have it back right away. Now it's slightly embarrassing, but I do have to admit that as beautiful as this car is, it was in fact a rental. I was borrowing from a friend because my supercar is in the shop. I just didn't want to say it. It was a little bit embarrassing, but it'll look really cool when it's done. Not only is it in the shop, it's in the shop in Canada. That's why I can't show you right now. But I can tell you that just like a supercar mechanic, a Sigma male has to keep himself in pristine working condition to be optimally performing with exercise and exercise. So let's hit some pushups. Okay, let's go. All right, that should be enough. Rest is very important. By the way, if you're wondering why I'm speaking so softly in this video, it's because people have to lean in and come to you. Boom! The more you know, right? I know, right? And another thing I read in a very trustworthy article is that if nothing else, a Sigma male should have lots of women. Let me show you mine. And well, I know what you might be thinking. They're just in the shop, right? Well, no. It turns out as a married man, my wife has put a limit on how many girlfriends I can have, specifically zero. And I know you might think it's not very Sigma to have to listen to anyone else, but I don't do it because I have to, but because I love and respect her. So let's move on. Actually, she never told me I can't have any girlfriends. I just assumed. So the other day, I had someone tell me and a friend that he was not showering because he could really soak in the flavor and that would increase his attractiveness level. And as a Sigma male, I gotta say, I disagree. Most of us should probably still shower. Might be losing some flavor, but maybe that's okay. Now, I know it's been quite a journey so far, but there's a few things, specifically one thing that every Sigma male has to do, and that is to get testimonials. Why are you asking me about Sigma males? What is your opinion on Sigma males? They're dumb. You think I'm a good Sigma male? You're a beta male. I'm a beta male? Absolutely. Hmm. You can tell by your nostrils. Can you see my nostrils? Yeah. Not on my screen yet. All right. One last question. Should Sigma males shower? No. They should not shower. Hmm. I think that's my issue. I've been showering. Yeah. So, you see, if you shower, you lose your pheromones, and that's how you attract women. Gotcha. That's how you get all the women. As a woman, are you specifically only attracted to Sigma males? Yes. What if they're alpha? No. Sigma's better. Gotcha. Anything else you want to say? You look dumb in that hat. So, I know it goes without saying, but it's pretty clear what happened there. She was confused. Let's go ask my wife. All right. She's currently gardening. What is your opinion? Excuse me. You're a good Sigma male. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. Oh, no. My only date long hair fitness guys. Good luck finding one of those. Yeah. Hey, friends. Thank you so much for watching. I haven't done one of these in a few years, but I really enjoyed them. Hope you have a wonderful, beautiful day, my friend.