It has been 10 years since the launch of JAMA Oncology. This last decade has brought major changes in the way we diagnose, stage and classify, and treat many types of cancers. A paradigm shift that has occurred in the treatment has been the integration of immune therapy, specifically immune checkpoint inhibitor monoclonal antibodies, into the standard of care for many human malignancies—both solid tumors and hematologic malignancies. JAMA Oncology has published a number of papers demonstrating the clinical efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors as monotherapy in advanced stages of disease or in combination with other cancer treatments. Over the years, we've seen improved overall outcomes when immune therapy is given with chemotherapy or radiation therapy. Furthermore, the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors is now moving from the metastatic into the neoadjuvant or perioperative setting for many malignancies. A recent meta-analysis involving over 5000 patients evaluated neoadjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitors plus chemotherapy in early-stage breast cancer. The study suggested that immune therapy prior to surgery was associated with improved clinical efficacy, but no benefit was observed with adjuvant immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy in early-stage triple-negative breast cancer. Potentially, the presence of tumor during immune therapy allows a more effective expansion of the immune response. Over the years, it's become clear that immune therapy has varying impacts in different populations. Immune-related adverse events, or irAEs, can be common in patients receiving immune checkpoint inhibitors, and some of these adverse events are associated with improved outcomes. Researchers studying non–small cell lung cancer reported that the development of multisystem immune-related adverse events was associated with improved progression-free and overall survival after treatment. The development of multiple irAE presumably reflected high activation of the immune system in response to immune checkpoint inhibition. Although immune-related adverse events are a significant concern of clinicians, in a meta-analysis, fatal adverse events occurred in less than 1% of immune checkpoint inhibitor–treated patients. We've also learned that there's no age limit to the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors. In a study of over 900 octogenarian patients with cancers treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors, patients still derived clinical benefit from the drugs. Re-treating patients with immune checkpoint inhibitors is also possible. A cohort study of patients with renal cell carcinoma showed an overall response to rechallenge of about 23%. These types of data suggest that mechanisms of resistance to these agents may not be absolute. Finally, clinical trials of immune checkpoint inhibitors have allowed exploration of biomarkers that predict clinical response to these drugs. One study of over 1500 non–small cell lung cancer patients suggested that elevated tumor mutational burden was associated with increased tumor immune cell infiltration and improved overall response rate. Researchers using machine learning to evaluate hematoxylin-eosin–stained images of non–small cell lung cancer tumors also validated the importance of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, or TIL levels, as independently associated with response rates to immune checkpoint inhibitors. A meta-analysis of GE cancers suggested tissue-based PD-L1 expression was the strongest predictor of survival benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy. Whether predictive biomarkers will vary significantly depending on tissue type remains to be determined. This last decade has opened the door for cancer immune therapies of all types. As we learn more about the mechanisms of action of these treatments and the best way to apply them clinically for our patients, I can only imagine we'll continue to see growth of immune therapy as an important class of cancer treatment in the next 10 years.