Arsenic in groundwater has been found on every continent affecting more than a 100 million people globally. Arsenic exposure which happens primarily through wellwater has been linked to increased mortality from cancer, cardiovascular disease and other chronic diseases. Efforts have aimed to reduce arsenic exposure worldwide. But are these efforts having an effect on mortality? In a study published in JAMA, lowering arsenic levels in drinking water appear to be associated with substantial decreases in chronic disease mortality. Starting in the year 2000, more than 11,000 adults living in a region of Bangladesh began having their arsenic exposure measured as part of a large prospective cohort study called heels. At the same time, community efforts began to mitigate population arsenic exposure in the same geographic areas. From the year 2000 to 2018, researchers collected individual level data by measuring arsenic levels via urine samples. Some participants had their arsenic exposure measured up to five times over the course of the study. Researchers also collected water samples from the primary wells of the participants at the beginning and toward the end of the study and track the mortality of the study's participants through 2022. Researchers were able to analyze changes of the urinary arsenic levels for nearly 11,000 participants. The arsenic mitigation efforts led to a substantial reduction in arsenic exposure for some, but not all participants. At the beginning of the study, the median urinary arsenic level was found to be 199 micrograms per gram of creatinine. Those participants whose urinary arsenic levels dropped below this median had a 54% reduction in chronic disease mortality compared with participants whose levels remained high. The researchers also found that the chronic disease mortality for this group was similar to participants whose arsenic levels were low at baseline and remained low. The researchers concluded that these health benefits underscore the global public health importance of arsenic mitigation efforts. For more, read this article in JAMA.