The Jamba Network. My name is Anelie Jan. I'm a pediatrician and health services researcher with the Luen Group. We've been studying health outcomes in children with autism spectrum disorders and in their family members for the last five years. We've been able to use a very large claimsbased data set in order to study these outcomes. A large database is really important for a condition like autism spectrum disorders because the condition varies so much from child to child. We were particularly interested in this question because although there is a lot of research suggesting that there's no link between the MMR vaccine and autism spectrum disorders, those beliefs continue to um persist. For this study, we wanted to compare the risk of developing autism spectrum disorders in children who received the MM MMR vaccine compared to those who did not. We were particularly interested in assessing this risk in children who had an older sibling with ASD who were thus at increased risk of developing autism spectrum disorders themselves. We set this up as a retrospective cohort study using a very large administrative claims database from a commercial health plan. The participants were children who were continuously enrolled in the health plan from birth until 5 years of age who also had an older sibling in the database. Thus, we were able to follow over 95,000 childrens from birth till at least 5 years of age. We then looked at these kids to see which ones were vaccinated with the MMR vaccine during that time period. We were also able to look and see which kids developed autism spectrum disorders or were diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder um during during that time period as well. We we were then able to compare their risk of developing autism spectrum disorders relative to them having received the MMR vaccine. We found that there was no harmful association between the receipt of the MMR vaccine and the development of an autism spectrum disorder. In the study itself, about um 1% or just under a thousand kids were diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder. um the risk of developing an ASD was higher in those kids who had an older sibling with an autism spectrum disorder, but there was no association between the MMR vaccine and ASD um irrespective of whether or not the kids had an older sibling with an ASD themselves. Our study also confirmed that children who had an older sibling with an autism spectrum disorder were less likely to be vaccinated with the MMR vaccine compared to those kids who had unaffected siblings. Um their vaccination rates were about 10% less than um kids with unaffected siblings. We think these results attest to the promise of using big data to address public health questions of importance. We hope to continue this work both for children with autism and their family members as well as potentially for other conditions. We also hope that more research and funding can be directed towards finding out what does cause autism spectrum disorders.