Hello and welcome to Gemma Network Open Live. I'm Seth Truger, digital media editor at Gemma Network Open. Of course, if you're following along live, please send us your questions or comments on Twitter at Gemma Network Open or on Facebook or YouTube live in the comment box. Today we are talking about the clinical effects of balanced crystalloids versus saline in adults with diabetic keto acidosis, a subgroup analysis of cluster randomized clinical trials. And we've got two of the authors, Dr. Jonathan Casey and Joanna Stallings. Welcome. Thanks for having us. Great. Really glad you could join. This is a really interesting study. Um, so first, as usual, if you two could just introduce yourselves, tell me a little bit about yourselves and what you did here in the study. Well, I'll start. I'm Jonathan Casey. I'm a pulmonary and critical care doctor at Vanderbilt University and I um do clinical trials like this one in comparative effectiveness of usual care interventions. My name is Joanna Stallings. I'm the clinical pharmacist in the medical ICU here at Vanderbilt and I uh work with the pragmatic critical care trial group and help them with trials like this. Great. Well, this is really interesting. I think this is a bit of um you know it's a subgroup analysis of of these two RCTs um did a lot of research into the very popular or well discussed studies on balanced versus um balanced crystallids versus saline that I think have got a lot of discussion the last couple years. Um and this subgroup analysis is interesting. So tell us what you did here John. Yeah. So I think understanding this this subgroup analysis this secondary analysis really requires an understanding of the larger parent trial. So just to quickly describe what we did. So that there was an ongoing controversy and and uh many and still controversial about the effects of balance crystalalloid and saline among critically ill patients. So uh in our ICU prior to this trial we were saline adherence. So we were people who used really predominantly saline prior to this trial and knew that others really believed that balanced crystalalloids had better outcomes particularly in regards to renal function. And um to investigate that we did this smart trial which is this cluster randomized trial amongst amongst all of our ICUs at Vanderbilt and our ED. Uh and patients who were in the ED and admitted to an ICU were included in the smart trial and patients who were in the ED and then admitted to a floor floor unit were then included in the in the sister trial. the salt ED trial. So I think understanding how we actually delivered the intervention is really important. So I'm going to turn it over to Joanna and she can describe how how that was accomplished. So every month we would switch between the two groups. So uh if it was the sailing move, we would primarily load saline into our automated dispensing cabinet um in the various different units. And uh if it was a balanced fluid month, then we would primarily load either lactated ringers or plasmaite into the respective units as well. And then um with regards to um the computer system, uh we had a homegrown computer system at the time called Star Panel. And it was interesting because uh providers honestly didn't even know the trial was going on unless they tried to order a different fluid. So um normal saline, they really didn't have an option to opt out. But if it was a balanced fluid month, if you had someone that had a hypercalemia or if a a patient would had a a head injury or if the um attending physician for whatever reason did not want that, they could opt out. Okay. Interesting. And you know, as an ED doc where I feel like uh a lot of the logistics really make a big difference, I like the way that you made it so easy to kind of give the study medications or the the the study fluids. I feel like from my point of view, you know, as we were starting to see a lot of the the initial data or even before we did it when it was really more theory on balanced uh balanced fluids versus saline, um it seemed to me like if I have to wait 20 minutes to get fluid versus just the nurse grabbing it from, you know, from the the um the cabinet, it's it's that's probably washing out any differences. So, logistically, I think this is just really impressive. So, really proud of what you did there. Um and then running through some basic numbers. So you had about 170 adulted DKA total about 94 94 in the balance group 78 in the saline group um and you showed uh a couple different outcomes. So tell me about your outcomes here and what you found. So yeah, again this is a secondary analysis of the larger trial and the way that we defined the cohort is that um we looked among the 29,149 patients who were in the two trials and look for anyone who was coded as having DKA and then also combined that that clinical diagnosis with uh laboratory criteria to define this population of people who had DKA on presentation to the ED. Um and then I'll turn it over to Joanna and say about how we how we analyze the two outcomes. Um so the two big outcomes that we looked at were um how um quickly that patients came off the insulin drip and then the other one was just resolution of DKA. So we looked at uh obviously like their by carb becoming normal, their glucose also um resolving and then also other pH normalizing as well. Okay. And are you um sorry, one of the things I noticed uh that most most of the patients in the study about it was it 83% had type 1 diabetes. Is that um most of what you see with DKA in your population? So certainly it's the majority. I think you know it's only been recently that people have recognized that there's overlap and that DKA can occur with type two diabetes. You this wasn't the primary purpose for which we designed the trial. So I think it was interesting to get an overview. This is essentially everyone who experienced DK in our hospital during this period of time. So I I too was a little surprised by how many of those patients who met the clinical and laboratory criteria had an underlying diagnosis of type two. But when you delve further into the uh the data on DK that's that's actually consistent with what's been published in the past. Interesting. So I would say anecdotally from what I see I feel like I see many more patients type two diabetes in DKA just because there's so much more type two diabetes probably than anything else. Um but just interesting to see how much type one there was. Um but unfortunately it looked like a lot the major cause was lack of um home medications or mis doses of home insulin which unfortunately makes sense especially with what we've seen with kind of the um the insulin environment recently and how expensive it's gotten for a lot of patients. I think that's really unfortunate and definitely um something we see every day is that our number one reason for DKA is non-compliance with their insulin. For sure. Mhm. And then looking across your tables, um you know, I was one thing that was nice is the randomization seemed pretty successful. The groups were pretty comparable as far as uh as far as how severe they were, types of coorbidities and things like that. Um it looks like interestingly despite uh the isotonic patients doing the balanced fluids patients um getting better faster, they they got less fluid. Do you think was it was because they were getting fluid um or less quickly and just got better faster or just the saline patients because they were they had a few more hours of uh decay they were just getting more saline? Yeah, I think that's a great question. I think we can speculate although I'm not sure we have a definitive answer and I think that the amount of fluid that they got was actually statistically similar between the groups. uh but generally uh the way DK is managed at our hospital is that the fluid drips are continued until the patient's taken off the insulin drip and because the balance crystallic group resolved more quickly it might make sense that the they would have a little less fluid overall. Okay, which makes sense. And then um as far as the other uh the other difference in the groups, it looks like the um the balanced fluid group uh had a little bit less hypoclemia, but otherwise the other complications are pretty comparable. Um, was there anything else that that came through or came across as far as differences with the treatments that you noticed? I mean, I think the major thing to take home, and maybe I'm just thinking about this because, um, I'm working in the CO ICU too right now, honestly, is just four hours less on an insulin drip. I mean, that's a huge outcome. I mean at Vanderbilt um sometimes now we are sending some patients to the floor um or to a step down unit I should say on insulin d primarily we treat these patients in the ICU and 4 hours um in the ICU is is golden right now not just for us but for everybody is we're also short on ICU beds I think that's when I think about the biggest outcome from this I think that's the most clinically meaningful one to to me I think it's a really important point um again I think for any individual patient it may not make a big difference as far as four hours to resolution But you know every six patients that's a full day in an ICU and ICU days matter a lot both to you know to those patients and to all the other patients who are waiting for those ICU beds. So really key point I think. Thank you for pointing that out. Um John anything else you like from the results or anything else you found interesting. Yeah so I think that that as you point out for any any given patient this is a small difference but it's going to add up over a large number of patients. And I think uh you know one concern might be that these p these patients often come in with hyperlamia that's related to to their underlying acidosis. I think it was reassuring to see those potassium trends that if you look at the graphs at least uh visually it appears that the that the the average potassium dropped more quickly. Um so it actually didn't cause more hypermia and at least early on those patients who were hypermic had had a faster drop in potassium and it didn't hit as low. you had seemed to have less hypercalemia and less hypocalemia and that's likely because of the the more rapid correction of the acidosis which is really the driver of hyperclemia in these patients and not a total body potassium excess right absolutely yeah looking at figure one there's all the different electrolyte concentration differences and the um creatinine differences and glucose of course uh and really what struck me here is how similar they were so even with all the resolution um being faster by 4 hours which was you know it's 13 over 17 hours of decay and 10 verse 13 and a half hours of insulin drip. Um, everything else being about the same is pretty impressive. So, that's good. You guys have a tech control in your unit. Nice work. Great. Uh, so I guess the the big takeaway I have, the big question I have is, you know, now that these studies are done, are have you switched to LR for most patients in your unit? Absolutely. We primarily use um LR or plasma honestly um are the two uh big fluids that we use. It's uh rare these days to see a normal saline order and definitely if we do there's um some education uh provided uh if we see that but um we don't see it a lot which makes me one happy camper. It is interesting. I mean it's not that many years ago that uh like John said we primally use saline. So it's uh this is definitely changed our practice completely. And I'll I'll put one other um uh piece out there, which is that it's these are the kinds of studies that really take large numbers of patients to figure out that they're things that that 4-hour difference is something that you would be unlikely to notice if you were managing DKA patients yourself. Um so this trial was conducted among this large group of patients, 29,000 patients, every patient in the in the hospital. And um at the end of the trial we found that there was this lower risk of make 30 or lower risk of new endstage renal disease persistent uh renal dysfunction or death. And you might think well at the end of the trial had the providers noted that would their practice patterns have changed. So in our ICU we were predominantly a saline ICU. I mainly used saline after being forced to use balanced crystalloid every other month for this period of time. By the end of the trial, had I figured out that my patients did better better with balanced crystalloid and the answer was no. That as soon as the trial was over and we stopped controlling the fluid and alternating back and forth between months, the medical went back to a saline predominant unit. So I think these are these are the kinds of things where they the differences are only apparent in largecale population level studies like this. So once we found the results and found that balance crystalalloid was better for our patients, the same mechanisms that we used to conduct the trial, so stocking balance crystallid in the units and using an advisor in the electronic health record to push people towards ordering balanced crystalloids, we turn those back on so that instead of using it to conduct a trial and alternating every month, now every patient's pushed towards balanced crystalloids. And because of that, we've seen improved outcomes in our patients. Well, that's really great. It's always good to hear, you know, both uh, you know, complicated studies like this that that are hard to do that you were able to do successfully, like you said, 29,000 patients. Um, you know, finding some interesting subgroup analyses and also again the systems level changes to make the differences. Again, you know, MD, it's now pretty easy to do LR instead of saline if I want to. Um, but without that, I think, you know, be I I would probably still have been pretty skeptical, you know, obviously until now. [laughter] So, great. Well, thank you both for joining today and thanks for doing this this great study. Um, appreciate it all. If you want to read the study, of course, you can get it at jamro.com where everything is open access. We've got new papers coming out every uh every weekday morning at 10 a.m. Central time. And join us next week, Tuesday the 24th before Thanksgiving for another episode of JO Live. So, of course, take care and stay safe. Thanks again. Thank you. Thanks [clears throat] for having us.