Older adults are commonly prescribed medications more likely to lead to adverse events because of their age. But discontinuing the drugs can be difficult for a number of reasons. Patients may have been on them a long time and the drugs appear to be working; they may have been started by another provider; or because of limited time at each visit. An intervention initiated by another member of the healthcare team - the pharmacist -- may help overcome this inertia. This week, JAMA is publishing a clinical trial, the D-PRESCRIBE trial, that assesses the effectiveness of a pharmacist-led intervention designed to reduce inappropriate prescribing. Deprescribing is reducing the dose of a necessary medication or discontinuing an unnecessary medication, particularly ones that have potential for harm. Researchers recruited 69 community pharmacies in Quebec into the trial. The pharmacies filled prescriptions for 489 patients older than 65 years who were on at least 1 medication from 4 drug classes thought to carry significant risk of harm. The 4 classes were   Sedative-hypnotics, specifically benzodiazepines and the "Z-drugs," zolpidem and zopiclone   First-generation antihistamines   Glyburide and Selective NSAIDs At pharmacies randomized to the study intervention, pharmacists gave or mailed an educational brochure about deprescribing to patients. They also sent the patients' physicians evidence-based recommendations about the patients' medications. Control pharmacies provided usual care without educational information or recommendations. The primary trial outcome was complete cessation of prescription fills for any of the 4 medication classes 6 months after randomization, sustained for at least 3 months, and without substitution of another inappropriate drug. Let's review the results. Participants had a mean age of 75 years. 34% were men, 66% were women. After 6 months, 43% of the patients in the intervention group had stopped at least 1 inappropriate medication, compared with 12% in the usual care group, a mean difference of 31%. Sedative-hypnotics accounted for most of the difference, and 38% of patients who attempted to taper a sedative-hypnotic reported withdrawal symptoms. The authors conclude that their pharmacist-led education intervention was more effective than usual care pharmacy care, and more effective than previous attempts to reduce inappropriate prescribing through pharmacist-physician communication alone, or through software alerts. They also point out that generalizability of the results outside the Canadian system requires further research. An accompanying editorial provides context for the trial findings, emphasizing that involvement of both patients and physicians may have made it more likely that the inertia that commonly thwarts deprescribing in older adults was overcome. Look for a link to the Original Investigation in the description.