One of the most exciting trends in the field of oncology in the last 10 years since the launch of JAMA Oncology has been the growing focus on research pertaining to cancer survivorship. As our patients are surviving cancer, JAMA Oncology has published key papers that give practitioners guidance on how to keep their patients healthy and cancer free into the future. A sedentary lifestyle should be avoided by cancer survivors. In a prospective cohort study, in about 1500 cancer survivors followed for a median of 4.5 years, investigators found that those who were sedentary, especially those who sat more than 8 hours a day, were at an increased risk of all-cause cancer and noncancer mortality. What is the exercise prescription for cancer survivors? Recommendations vary, but the American Cancer Society and ASCO recommend 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity or 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity activity with strength training at least 2 days a week. But many forms of exercise can have clinical impact. One trial randomized patients with advanced lung cancer to aerobic exercise, Tai Chi, and a control group and then performed a 16-week intervention. Although the primary outcome was improved sleep quality, one of the secondary outcomes was 1-year survival. 226 Patients were randomized, and while both aerobic exercise and Tai Chi improved sleep, only the Tai Chi group experienced improved survival compared to controls. Changes in diet can also support survivorship. Recommendations include an increase in fruits and vegetables and a decrease in red meat and alcohol use. Researchers evaluated over 900 patients with stage III colon cancer enrolled on CALGB 89803, a randomized adjuvant chemotherapy trial. Investigators assigned each patient a score based on body mass index, physical activity, and intake of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and red processed meats. Those that followed physical activity and nutritional guidelines had a longer survival than those with lower scores. These types of data suggest adherence to guidelines leads to improved outcomes. But we need to do better in encouraging our patients to exercise and maintain a healthy diet after a cancer diagnosis. Baughman and colleagues performed a cross-sectional study using survey data from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. The investigators evaluated adherence to ACS nutrition and physical activity guidelines among over 9000 cancer survivors. While 72% met criteria for physical activity and 68% were not obese, only 12% of respondents ate adequate fruits and vegetables. Cancer treatments can leave patients with long-term sequela, or risk factors that will require specialized attention over time. Cancer survivors are at higher risk for the development of cardiovascular disease, chronic renal insufficiency, functional limitations or frailty, chronic pain, and, in some cases, second malignancies. In a large study of second primary malignancies in pediatric, young adult, and adult cancer survivors, overall 5-year survival was substantially lower after a second primary malignancy as compared to the primary malignancy, or as compared to individuals without a previous cancer with the same primary malignancy. This finding underscores the need for adequate cancer screening and enhanced early detection for cancer survivors. The unique needs of cancer survivors underscore that our oncology practices will need to evolve from active treatment into specialized survivorship care. JAMA Oncology will continue to publish the most clinically relevant data on cancer survivorship to ensure our readers have the information that they need to support their survivors into the next decade.