For patients with suspected concussion, evaluation of the neck focuses on identifying potential cervical spine injury. Cervical spine injury and cervical dysfunction can both contribute to headache, dizziness, and imbalance. Cervical spine assessment is included in both the Sports Concussion Assessment Tool, or SCAT-6, used within the first 72 hours after injury and the Sports Concussion Office Assessment Tool, or SCOAT-6, for office-based evaluation beyond 72 hours. In the SCAT-6, it serves as a brief screening to identify Whereas in the SCOAT-6, it's performed in greater detail as part of the comprehensive evaluation of cervical dysfunction contributing to post-injury symptoms. Before any movement, assess for neck pain at rest, increasing neck pain, numbness, tingling, or weakness in the extremities, and a concerning mechanism of injury such as high speed motor vehicle collision, fall from height, or axial load to head or neck. If any of these are present, stop the examination and manage as a possible cervical spine injury. Are you experiencing any pain in the back of your neck? No. Great. How about any numbness or tingling or weakness in your arms or legs or anywhere else? If cervical immobilization is in place, maintain it during gentle palpation of the midline cervical spine. Midline cervical tenderness is concerning for possible cervical spine injury and warrant cervical spine precautions and further evaluation for cervical spine injury. Next, assess the paraspinal muscles for tenderness or spasm which may contribute to postinjury symptoms. Does this hurt? And how about here? No. Great. If neck pain and focal tenderness are absent, the assessment may progress to active neck movement. Ask the patient to slowly move the neck through active pain-free full range of motion without applying force. If there's no discomfort with active range of motion, the cervical spine should next be evaluated in 3 planes with the patient sitting upright. First, assess flexion and extension by asking the patient to bring the chin toward the chest, and then look up. Next, assess rotation by asking the patient to turn the head to the right and left. Finally, assess lateral flexion by asking the patient to bring each ear toward the shoulder Throughout the assessment, observe for pain, stiffness, asymmetry, or limitation of movement.