>> Hello, and welcome to Conversations with Dr. Bochner. This is Howard Bochner, Editor and Chief of JAMA, and I'm here with Marc Lipsitch, who is a Professor of Epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and Marc is a world renowned Scholar in Epidemics and Pandemics. Marc, what's the first three months been like from your standpoint? >> I think it's been a process of slowly figuring out that something horrible is happening and really the scale of how horrible it is. I think that virologists were among the first to realize because when they saw the sequence they recognized that this was something that could be another SARS and, of course, it's been much worse than SARS-1. And then epidemiologists began to realize that I would say in sort of late January as the reports from China were coming in of the impact on the health system that this was not something that was easily contained. And then, you know, governments, the ones that were, that had experience of SARS like Singapore and Hong Kong and Taiwan and some of the others responded very quickly, and then some other governments like our own took a lot longer to have a comprehensive response. We did some travel bans and some sort of token actions which might have been useful if they had been used to buy time to get our healthcare system ready for the attack that was about to happen, but instead the sort of symbolic measures, like travel bans, were really the centerpiece of our response. And I think all of us are just taking, have taken time to figure out what a truly historically bad even this is and that's unfortunate because we've wasted a lot of time, but it's also something about human psychology I think that you take awhile to realize when something terrible is happening, especially when it's invisible like a growing viral threat. >> Yeah, you've been more generous. I have said publicly and have written we squandered time in the US, four weeks, six weeks or eight weeks, and the cost in human terms has been substantial. There's a lot of comparison to SARS and flu and sometimes I think we invoke those comparisons when we want to understand how it will be helpful, other times not. How is this like SARS and not like SARS? How is this like flu and not like flu? >> Great questions. So it's like SARS biologically, virologically, but really quite different epidemiologically in the sense that's there's a much wider spectrum of disease and in particular the people doing the transmitting are not readily identifiable as such. SARS was controllable with extraordinary public health measures, not because it died out, not because of the summer, not some of the other things people have said. Extreme public health measures controlled SARS because you could figure out pretty much who was doing the transmitting and isolate them and so it was about a 10,000 person epidemic rather than the much more gigantic epidemic that we're now facing and was contained. And so I think those were the -- and it was more deadly, so the flip side of you can tell who is a transmitter is they were very sick and a lot of them died, almost 10%. So that's the comparison to SARS. I think for flu the comparisons are pandemic of flu is more opportune than the comparison to seasonal flu. So pandemic flu happens in weird times of the year, not necessarily in the winter, and we're seeing that happen now. Summer may reduce the transmission, but doesn't necessarily stop it and we're seeing probably the same thing happening now. There are lots of people susceptible, so even if it's of a certain severity per person the number of people affected is much greater. So past pandemics of flu have symptomatically infected about 20% to 40% of the population, which means probably actually infected 50%, 60%, 70%. And so in that way it's very similar to pandemic flu. It's worse than the pandemics of flu that we've had recently in that it's just more deadly and, therefore, causes a greater burden on our healthcare system and really a lot of the social distancing and other control measures are trying to maintain the healthcare systems' integrity and ability to function despite unusually high numbers of cases and, as you saw in The New York Times today, really unusual numbers of deaths in places around the world. So I think pandemic flu is a really good analogy, except that we don't have drugs and we don't have vaccines yet. And seasonal flu has been invoked by people who are trying to say this is all overblown, but it's more deadly than seasonal flu per person and many more people are at risk than seasonal flu, so I think that's a bad analogy. >> Yeah, it's interesting that you're categorizing it into pandemic flu and seasonal flu. I think people immediately jump to seasonal flu, not realizing that there's other types of flus that arrive. You know, at the moment the critical question is what do the next few months look like? We'll get to the fall, and I've chosen the fall as something to think about because I do think we'll get through the next couple months, vacation and then presumably college and schools may or may not reopen. What do you think the next few months look like? >> I think it's going to be really variable across the world as almost every government is talking in some way about lifting control measures, not every government I think but many because of the economic burdens. And I think that given the fairly high caseloads that we still have in most parts of the United States that's a really risky thing to do right now and I think we'll see resurgences. I hope that the summer weather will help slow transmission, but our estimates from our paper and science last week are that it may be 20% reduction in transmissibility if it's similar to the other coronaviruses, that's not enough to stop it, that's just enough to slow it down a little. And so we'll see what can be accomplished. I think that the hopeful thing is that there'll be experimentation by different jurisdictions and we'll figure out whether school closures are really very valuable or could be relaxed and we'll figure out some of the other things that maybe aren't as important to transmission, that's the hopeful side. But the down side I think is that some places are going to open up and then not have a plan to reclose and then we're going to have more situations like New York and New Orleans and Detroit where there are really extreme strains on the healthcare. >> Do you think in terms of the social distancing, asking people and talking about shields, if we were to open up but to use those approaches with the summer months I assume the 20% reduction is related to the weather changes, do you think that's a way to begin for areas that don't have a great deal of disease and would like to try to begin to open up? Both the medical centers, as well as businesses, also medical centers have been shut down. >> Right. >> So it's not just businesses. >> Yeah, I mean I think that's the question is we don't know, we know sort of the cumulative affect of all the interventions we've done, but most places have done roughly the same suite of interventions with some exceptions, so it's really hard to separate out the affect of sort of behavioral changes, from masks and all these other things. So there's some really innovative ideas about trying to open up individual laboratories and research institutes as experiments, the ones that could actually do a lot of testing and can sort of pretend that they are South Korea or a place with adequate testing capacity and see whether with that kind of vigilance and with people who really understand about lab safety, because the lab workers, those are going to be a laboratory at the reopening and I think that's an exciting development and we'll see how that goes. But I think it's an experiment on a grand scale and we'll find out. >> It's interesting you say that, we just got a paper from a country in which a great deal of people were quarantined and they followed them very closely for a month and I think it may be the most detailed data I've seen because it was a human experiment in which they had a great deal of control. So your notion that labs could open up in particular ways and sort out, you know, if you're six feet apart or eight feet apart or you only have a third of the workforce is it working somehow, may be a good approach. In terms of opening up what do the businesses and health systems need to be prepared for? If they see a flare of disease that they have to change from opening up to go back to what we've been doing for the last month? >> I think that's going to be prudent for individual workplaces that if there's an outbreak in that workplace that's a reason to potentially close it back down or otherwise mitigate. I mean part of why I'm concerned about the reopening plan that's been suggested by our President and to some degree also by some individual Governors is a lot about opening and not a lot about monitoring and correcting course. So I think all that needs to be worked out in some detail before it's really safe to open up. And there also are places where it's clearly higher risk and where some measures can be taken in advance. I mean paid sick leave is obviously an important option for employers who don't want to start outbreaks in their workplaces, and I have been surprised at some of the employers who don't have paid sick leave, especially for their lowest paid workers. You know, migrant workers who live typically in very dense conditions with poor ventilation and the like will be becoming more plentiful as crops come out and that's obviously a place where outbreaks can start, so trying to improve the living conditions is another option for not just being humanitarian, but actually keeping your workforce in shape to work. So I hope that employers will see enlightened self-interests and not just sort of complain about the costs of adapting to this because it's really in everybody's interest to keep the workforce healthy. >> Now there's a great deal unknown about serology, I think actually we'll begin to learn more IGG, IGM, neutralizing antibodies, how long it lasts, what titers people reach, what percent of the people who are infected reach those theoretical titers. Is that type of information critical to the fall when the US comes back from vacation, schools open, colleges open, businesses are going back to normal workdays and times? Is serology testing a key over the next few months to try to understand what the fall may bring? >> I think it's very important, I think for several reasons. I mean the first question is just the surveys, we've seen some of those come out in preprint, some of them in newspaper articles and maybe not any yet, but I've seen in peer review journals, so it's an unusual time as you're well aware. But the sero surveys are the first step and there are issues with the sensitivity and specificity of the tests and with accounting for that properly, which has been a big problem in some of the early released preprints, but that will get worked out because the community is doing peer review on Twitter and on other media even before the papers get submitted sometimes. So that will get worked out I hope, and then there's the more -- and we need that in order to figure out where we are and the preliminary data seem to suggest that it's quite variable. You know, the Town of Chelsea, Massachusetts -- >> Right. >> -- the sample was 30% positive and Santa Clara County was somewhere between zero and 4% or 5% positive, depending on how you interpret the data. And so that's a really big difference, so understanding the determinants of who gets infected is going to be a nice I hope benefit of sero surveys. And then the next question is sero protection, what is the impact of being sero positive on your risk of reinfection? And that is a really hard study to do, a lot of those studies are being set-up, it's an observational study with all the usual problems of compounding, but here it's unusually had because the exposure and the outcome are almost the same thing, they're infection. One is infection in the past and the other is infection in the future, and if you want the most confounded kind of outcome it's going to be the outcome that's the same thing as the exposure. So it's really tricky, it's not impossible, and we and a lot of other people are trying to set that up. And so I think those are the two big questions and they're both important for understanding where we are in the epidemic, if we're close to herd immunity and if we can send certain people back to work because they're at low risk of getting infected. >> If data merged, and I do think, I just saw the bill, $25 billion for some form of testing, serology, just passed this morning or late yesterday. Say you're in Chelsea and it's 30%, 40% after we do even more testing? New York, I'm assuming it will be relatively high, there's so much asymptomatic disease in New York, but then you have other areas where it's going to be 5%, so what does the fall look like if you live in an area of 5% some sense of 5% of people were infected versus 30% or 35%, can the Mayor make a different type of decision or is that too big a decision for a Mayor to make? >> Well, I think that is a live question, for example, in Georgia where there's a back and forth between the Mayors and the Governor about who gets the authority. But clear, I mean I think the example of Georgia shows very clearly that this is not so much about serology, but about ongoing infection and the City of Albany is in a crisis of way too many cases and the expansion of its ICUs hasn't been totally successful yet, whereas other parts of the State seem to have lower rates of infection. So I think the decisions really are appropriately quite local, the problem is of course it takes knowledge of how to do these things and what are the main factors. And I think our job as scientists in the coming months is going to be to try to help people understand really how to make sense of the data as imperfect as they are and how to make better decisions about opening and closing. >> Now you talked about herd immunity, could you say a little bit more about that? Say you're in an area in which you think 30% or 40% of people have had disease in the past, is that sufficient for herd immunity? How would that change what you could do in that community? >> If that's really the case and if those people are protected, and that's why sero protection is a separate and really crucial issue, but if those people and a large fraction of them are protected it's not enough to stop transmission of this virus which we think has a basic reproductive number around two or three or some people think higher than three, because you need the product of the proportion susceptible and the reproductive number to be less than one. So if the proportion susceptible is 60%, 70% then that times two even is still more than one, but it's not going to mean everything is fine but it could mean that with mask wearing and sort of good hygiene and all these other things, especially in the summer with lower transmission perhaps already, those little bits could add up to enough to keep the virus under control. That's the most optimistic scenario, and that would be really important to know if the chances of really outrageous exponential growth are reduced because the growth rate is reduced, then that's really an important finding for the local decision-making. But if we're at 5% then we really are kind of the same as at zero, 5% is not much. >> What questions, I think we've talked about some of it, but what questions really need to be answered before we get to the fall? >> I think sero prevalence in as many places and understanding the risk factors as well as possible for who gets infected, whether it's poverty, whether it's transportation, whether it's -- I mean there are all sorts of hypotheses out there and it's clear that there's disparate impact, which means disparate infection rates among other things. So understanding that is really important and I hope the serology studies will really emphasize those social determinants. Understanding whether sero protection is real, I think it is real, is likely to be real, but how real and how good it is is also a really high priority. And then the third thing I think is, and this one I'm not as sure we'll get to, but I think we need to understand what are the different types of interventions doing? Is school closure really crucial to this or is it just something we're doing alongside because that's obviously one of the most costly in every sense of the word, cost of all the interventions, and so if we could relax that that would be very meaningful. So I think trying to tease apart the different interventions and what they do is a really important question. >> This is a more philosophical question, Marc, but how do you think about risk? And I'll indicate what I'm thinking about, children -- and listeners know I'm a Pediatrician -- children have been remarkably spared. Even as the numbers have grown, there's scattered cases, there is the occasional death, but they are remarkably spared of either significant disease or even getting the disease. I think it's still unclear. How do you think about that vis-a-vis opening schools in the fall, because I think most school systems are done for the year, I could be wrong but I think the majority will be done for the year. But then you get to the fall and there's an extraordinary cost to keeping schools closed. >> Yeah, I agree, and I think it's really hard to make risk decisions about somebody else's children. >> Right. >> I think there is, as you say there are risks to everybody's children for nothing in school as well and that reopening schools, the risks to children are not the major reason to keep the schools closed, the thought and based on flu is that children transmit to adults. >> And I think that thought is a soft extrapolation from flu. We don't have any better things to go on, there's a new preprint I just saw from Australia suggesting that children are rarely the index cases and in family clusters, so maybe that's an indication, but maybe that's because children aren't in school. I don't know which is chicken and eggs. So I think we need to figure this out and my best idea is that there are a few schools open, there are schools for healthcare workers' children, at least I heard about one in another country. There are presumably some kind of daycare or something for people who work in large Defense contractor factories because those are essential industries and presumably people are not just leaving their kids at home. I don't know, I'm very curious what kinds of schools are still happening and what the data from those could tell us, but I haven't figured out the solution to that yet. >> Now there's been some models about how many people we need to test. It's expensive, I mean protection serology, not tests for acute disease, I mean clearly people are really beginning to differentiate between the two. Is there a magic number out there or does it depend on the area you live in, the amount of disease that already exists in that area? Is it possible to be specific or is it much less certain than has been proposed? >> I mean I think, I don't know the right answer to that. I think that one question is just how local and how determined it is by risk factors that we can identify. I mean so I think doing better sero surveys, doing sero surveys in the tens of thousands is a starting point to try to figure out is it your zip code, is it your block, is it your city, is it your state? My guess is it's your zip code or your block rather that really matters, but that's a guess at this point. So I think we'll get a better sense of how much resolution we need when we see exactly how patchy the sero prevalence is. >> Now in the coming weeks we'll begin to see data from either well done observational studies or clinical trials about the various drugs that are being tested. I've begun to emphasize this more and more because I'm concerned that we may have confused the public, these will not be cures by any means. It depends on what outcome they've measured, is it preventing ventilation, they may, very few will test true case fatality rates. These clinical trials are likely to have numbers needed to treat a five or 10 or 20, and as we learn more about this disease it may be a group of drugs at work in certain patients and not others, that will be very hard to tease out initially. So the potential cure or most effective treatment is a vaccine. Now vaccines against flu are rarely 100% effective, but let's put that as an aside. You know, Tony Fauci and I have talked about it, vaccines generally follow a very routinized approach through phase one, phase two, phase three, and then final population based efficacy. You've proposed a somewhat different approach to that, can you tell us how you've thought about vaccines, vaccine development and with a pandemic? >> Yeah, I mean I think the first thing to say is there are unprecedented efforts right now, something like 75 or so different known efforts and probably some that are not known and a number of coordination efforts to try to make this vaccine, make a or some vaccines come faster. And one of the bottlenecks to doing that is the phase three efficacy trial and that takes a long time because you have to immunize a lot of people and then wait for them to get infected and compare them against controls. So one approach that colleagues and I, Mary Aul [assumed spelling] and Peter Smith and I have suggested and other colleagues have also suggested similar ideas, is to supplement, is to replace the phase three with a human volunteer challenge study where individuals at very low risk of progression to severe outcomes based on age and lack of comorbidities would be offered the chance to participate in the study. They would be given vaccine or comparator, a placebo or a second vaccine or however it was done, and then exposed to live virus. The outcome would be infection or viral shedding, it would have to be determined exactly what the outcome would be. And the advantages of this are that we'd get an answer more quickly because you could find out who was infected within weeks, but also that you would expose fewer people to the vaccine in a setting where one of the concerns about vaccines for coronaviruses is the phenomenon of immune enhancement. So rather than vaccinating thousands of people as you do in a phase three trial you would vaccinate tens of people or in the low 100 kind of range and then expose them. Of course, the ethics of this are not without debate because this is exposing people to a risk of bad outcomes with no treatment that we know works. The argument in its favor is that we ask people and permit people to expose themselves to medical risk for others' benefit when they donate an organ, when they become a physician early as some people have become skipping their summer after medical school and beginning their internships immediately in order expose themselves to the risk of, not because they want to expose themselves to the risk, but taking that risk in order to treat patients with COVID, when we ask people to volunteer for the military, et cetera. So it's a in our view a risk that people should be allowed to take on voluntarily, obviously not compelled, obviously not vulnerable people, but this is a suggestion. At the same time we would then do a larger phase two study alongside it so that we would get immunogenicity data and rare event safety data, relatively rare event safety data and be able to extrapolate perhaps to other populations than the very low risk populations in the study. So that's our proposal, it was in the Journal of Infectious Diseases, Stanley Plotkin [assumed spelling] and Art Kaplan [assumed spelling] has suggested something similar in vaccine, and we think this is one way that the process could be speeded up. Over 1,500 people have contacted the authors of this paper and then gone to a website and put their names in saying I would like to be in such a trial, and these are thoughtful, educated people by and large who want to do something altruistic. So it's unconventional, but I think potentially very promising. >> Marc, could you, I have more questions about this idea around vaccines, but could you just describe for people, remind them what phase one, phase two, phase three is and generally the number of people involved in each of those because I think it'll help frame what you just said? >> Yeah, so phase one is safety and those finding and is usually in the tens. Phase two is for vaccines is usually immunogenicity at least 2A, the terminology gets -- >> Yeah, yeah. >> -- a little confusing, but is typically in the tens to hundreds. And then phase three is efficacy and is typically in the thousands of participants. So the idea would be to do engulf thousands, but not follow them for efficacy, only for safety and immunogenicity which is quicker and then do the challenge to evaluate efficacy. And then obviously you would need follow-up to show that the efficacy was true also in other groups. But even if you could find a vaccine that was very effective in the low risk groups those are also the groups that are in the workplace and that can contribute to herd immunity, so it would be not at all a trivial accomplishment to find a vaccine that helps with low risk groups. >> Now what's beginning to cross my desk is when we talk about vaccines in the United States it's a complicated issue around people who increasingly become vaccine hesitant. Our listeners know I'm a Pediatrician, I've followed this quite closely my entire career. Vaccines are quite safe, there are incredibly rare events that are associated with vaccines, causality is never easy to prove. Given vaccine hesitant groups in the United States, how do you think about that vis-a-vis a possible vaccine for this virus? >> I think that's going to be an issue. I think this virus is clearly qualitatively different in people's minds from many other viruses. I think one reason why the world is focused on it is that it is a clear and present threat to an unvaccinated first world population and that's fortunately not true on the same scale for some of the vaccine preventable diseases because we have been so successful with vaccination, so people aren't watching television and seeing deaths from vaccine preventable diseases in the developed world in large scale because we have them relatively under control despite the contributions of vaccine hesitant people to undermining that control. But I think this is a different kind of threat and I hope that people will take it seriously and focus their attention on the real benefit of a vaccine. If we have a beneficial vaccine, I mean we have to prove that there is a beneficial vaccine and not promising something that doesn't exist, I'm hoping that something will soon exist. >> You've described a heavy lift between now and the fall or even between now and the next couple of months as we try to begin to open up society again. I'm not sure we're capable of doing it, it's been a very, very difficult two or three months' testing obviously. I think a very slow recognition about asymptomatic spread despite a number of important papers in JAMA and other journals that occurred and I think the cost in not recognizing that sooner has been substantial. If we're not well prepared for the fall and flu flares in the fall, although I appreciate this is pandemic flu, although you've mentioned you think it could decline a bit in the summer months, the more humid months, what do you think the fall could look like if we enter it not well prepared? >> Putting aside flu, which is typically more of a winter problem than a fall problem -- >> Yes. >> -- but putting aside the flu interaction, I think our estimates are that in fact coronavirus, the seasonal coronavirus is in the US, the transmission peaks around November and then that leads to more cases and the cases peak in January. >> Right. >> So I think that we will have a harder time controlling this coronavirus in the fall because of the changing weather, if it's seasonal as we anticipate it may be partially. And so then I think it will be very much like the spring, I mean I think it will be, we'll have a little bit of herd immunity some places, maybe a lot of, you know, a real significant amount of herd immunity but not enough to stop it in other places. And so I think it's going to be very much like this and we're all going to be very tired of social distancing. I mean I think as an epidemiologist I very much efficate what we're doing right now because it's necessary to control transmission, but I don't like it and I know that I'm much more privileged than most people in how I'm having to deal with it compared to losing employment and other problems that it causes. So I think, I mean we're all going to be very, very tired of it and the hard thing is going to be to keep enough of it so that we protect our ICUs and we keep the number of cases from flaring up and hopefully by then we will begin to have some treatments and some better information about whether a vaccine is coming. >> Yeah, Clyde Yancy had a fabulous line in his paper about African-Americans and COVID-19, I think the line is something like social distancing is a privilege and not everyone has that privilege. >> Yes. >> It's a fabulous line. >> There's areas that really have been strained, and I don't think we're done hearing about some of the tragedies -- prisons, nursing homes, skilled nursing homes. How do you think of them and what we need to do to protect the workers, as well as to protect the people who are in those facilities? >> Yeah, I have a very close friend who is in one of those facilities and think he probably has COVID at the moment. It's not pretty. I don't know what the right way to deal with that is. I mean there are principles of building hygiene from ventilation and air filtration and humidification that can help, and I think those would be some relatively low hanging fruit. And otherwise I think it's going to be a matter of testing and finding people who can work in those facilities, who are not themselves going to bring it in, and then doing the best possible infection control within and that takes resources. And unfortunately a lot of those facilities are not as well resourced as they should be. >> Last question, I just made you the pandemic czar for the next year and you have a blank check, well, maybe not a blank check, although we already spent $2 trillion, so you have a lot of money, Marc. What are the first three or four or five things you'd want to do? >> That's a good question. Well, I'd invent a time machine and turn back the clock so that we could have prepared a little bit. >> Oh, God, the pain, really. You know, it's been a painful sad story, but hindsight hopefully we'll figure out a better way forward. >> Yes. >> But no time machine. >> So other than the time machine I think we have to get PPE, we have to get enough viral testing so that especially facilities like that can deal with it and we have the ability to do good surveillance and serologic testing. So that's all the usual stuff that everybody says. And, you know, I'm an epidemiologist, so this is not my field, but I would put a lot of it towards trying to mitigate the affects of the social distancing. I would put a lot of it towards making sure people have enough to eat, making sure that education can continue in places where it's most challenging and in trying to mitigate some of the mental health affects of it that I think from observing the most privileged people feeling it hard, I can only imagine what it's like if you have other challenges to deal with that are more, worse. So I would certainly put a lot of it towards mitigating the effects of the mitigation. >> Do you think the US even has the capacity to test, track, trace and quarantine? >> I don't think that can be the centerpiece. I think if Singapore can't do it as their only approach when they have the history of SARS and the knowledge of how to do it and they're relatively compliant a population, then I don't see how every county in the US can do it, I just don't, and I think it's unfortunate when that has been seen as a centerpiece. I think it may play a role in places where we've gotten the number of cases down and where we can detect a high proportion of those, those are both very challenging but they do go together for contact tracing and the consequences of that to be a part of it. I think it will be better, much better if the interventions are voluntary. I really disagree with the people who have suggested taking people out of their homes and separating families to try to reduce transmission involuntarily. I do think there need to be some opportunities for people to leave their homes if they need to because some homes really aren't good for isolation and people should have that option. But I think that the whole contact tracing and isolation is a part of the story, but only once we get cases down to a level where we actually see most of them. >> Yeah, I think -- thanks for answering that question-- I think it's an important decision because we do have limited resources, you will not get a blank check, and so I think where we begin to think about where we should put those resources really becomes important. So I think that's a debate that we need to have and we need to have it soon, it can't linger into the three, four, five, six months. >> Yeah. >> You know, and there's no certainty with any decision. I think as clinicians, investigators and scientists we need to I think be clearer with the public, that there's so much unknown, that certainty in what we say or our predictions or our models probably doesn't exist. We go on the best science possible, but there's so much science still missing from this puzzle. >> Yeah, well, I think as the CDC's performance in 2009 really showed during the flu pandemic, they were out there every day saying this is what we know, this is what we don't know, this is how we're trying to find it out. And people trust that, so there's no tradeoff, it's actually the other way around. If you say I don't know when you don't know then people are less surprised when you change your mind. Scientists should change their mind. >> Yeah. >> Public health should change its mind when the data changes, and I think that's part of what's missing in this particular episode. >> Yeah, one of the things I've appreciated about Tony is that I think he is willing to say this is what we know, but this isn't what we do know or this isn't what we know or we don't know this yet. >> We're working on it. I do wish there was a more consistent voice from the CDC in addition to Tony and Deborah, I don't think they should be the only two spokespersons, but that's not for me to decide. >> Evidently not. >> No, but I wish I could give you a blank check. >> I will take it to the bank. >> This has been Conversations with Dr. Bochner, it's Howard Bochner, Editor and Chief of JAMA. What a pleasure to be joined by Marc Lipsitch, who is a Professor of Epidemiology, preeminent Scholar in Epidemics and Pandemics at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Marc, thanks for joining me today, and I hope you stay healthy and well. >> Thank you, and you. >> Right. Thank you.