Carlos is the other half of the Preeti Malani, the Malani Del Rio authorship group that has offered up three viewpoints for us. Carlos is a professor at the Emory Vaccine Center, Hubert Department of Global Health, Rollins School of Public Health. Also a member of the Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, and has been an extraordinary contributor both to JAMA and to the infectious disease community over many, many years. Carlos, thanks for joining us today. >> Carlos del Rio: Happy to be with you, Howard. >>Howard Bauchner: So I want our listeners to know I've already sent Carlos a list of, like, really common questions that I get all the time. And so we're going to walk through them, and we're going to play out some scenarios, because I think they've gotten very, very confusing for people. So, Carlos, let's first start with what people mean by the incubation period. Currently, the recommendation or the suggestion is that the incubation period for COVID-19 is 14 days. Some have argued it should be 21 days. But can you talk about what the incubation period means? >> Carlos del Rio: Yeah. I think we're pretty sure that the time incubation is the time between when you get exposed to the virus and when you develop symptoms. And it tends to be when you have active infection, and it tends to be, we think somewhere between two and 14 days. There may be a little bit of a tail past 14, but it's highly, highly unusual. I think I can very confidently say 14 days feels, you know, about right, in about close to 98, 99% of people. The problem we have with this virus is that there's a significant percent of people who are asymptomatic or could have very mild symptoms. So incubation becomes a complicated topic, right? Because you can be exposed to this virus, get infected, develop infection but don't have symptoms. So you in fact you will be able to shed virus and transmit the infection, yet don't have symptoms. And that I think, is one of the hardest challenge with this virus. Compared to Ebola, for example, compared to smallpox, those were diseases in which, you know, you can tell when somebody was infected, and not only that, they didn't transmit until they were clinically ill. >> Howard Bauchner: Now, Carlos, if I walk around and I'm exposed to someone, and let's say I'm an adult, we'll get to children and asymptomatic disease, which is a little more confusing, and I'm going to develop symptoms. You said I will develop symptoms with generally within those 14 days. How soon after I'm exposed, and I have disease, am I infectious? >> Carlos del Rio: So there are a couple things. Once you've been exposed, then it takes you a, you know, a few days for the virus just to sort of, you know, begin reproducing, multiplying in your cells and then you have to produce enough virus to then start producing virus and start transmitting. We think that people start transmitting virus. If you think about somebody who's going to be symptomatic, they start transmitting virus about 48 to 72 hours before they develop symptoms, and that CDC has given this very nice term of pre-symptomatic transmission. And that pre-symptomatic transmission is the reason why we recommend that everybody wears a mask, because I could be sitting here looking fine. And in one or two days develop symptoms, and I'm infectious today. Now, there's a percentage of people, not that many, maybe about 3 to 5%, who remain truly asymptomatic, but that truly symptomatic is this very small percentage of people. I think you were getting to also something there, Howard, that I think is very important. You said I walk by and I get infected. We now know that it's just not, you don't get infected by just walking by somebody unless, of course, that person kind of, like, sneezes or coughs right in your face. You need significant contact with individual. It may be as long as 10 to 15 minutes, and you need to be in a fairly close space. So that's why we learned from colleagues in Italy, in New York and other places in China, that a lot of transmission occurs within households. And if you live in a small apartment in New York with a lot of people. If you are, you know, why are minorities so heavily impacted because many of them live in very small places where, you know, one is infected, and you have, you know, six or seven people living in a two-bedroom apartment, everybody else is going to get infected. They're close by, they live in a small quarters, and they're frequently together. >> Howard Bauchner: Carlos, there's going to be lots of questions, but I want to go through a few more before we get to the questions. So you're infected, you get well. Then when can you visit people? Return to work? I mean, the CDC has two scenarios, testing and not testing. And they talk about this 10 day period from the time you were well then that you could return to work or see other people? What's this 10-day rule? >>Carlos del Rio: So a couple things. The CDC has two scenarios of, you know, two negative tests. >>Howard Bauchner: Right. >> Carlos del Rio: I would tell you that all of us in healthcare are not following those recommendations. We simply don't have enough tests to do that. What we tell an infected healthcare worker is you've been infected, you go home, and then we will see you. Well, you can come back 10 days after your positive test, or 72 hours after you've been, for 72 hours without acetaminophen or anything, totally asymptomatic, whichever is longer. And then maybe, you know, that after 10 days, you still don't feel well and you still have a little bit of fever, we don't want you back. So it's either 10 days or 72 hours, whatever is longer. >>Howard Bauchner: Okay. All righty. Now, let's get to the asymptomatic group, which has really been confusing. And I've said before on some of the live streams. You know, JAMA and one or two other journals, published articles early on in February about asymptomatic spread. In hindsight it would have been better had we paid more attention to them, because I think they really are the key articles that mandate masking. In any case, what percent of individuals who are infected are truly asymptomatic, not just this pre-symptomatic phase? And is it more common in children or adults? Or do we just not know? >>Carlos del Rio: It's a pretty small number of people. As I said, maybe 3 to 5%. And we think it tends to be a lot more frequent in younger individuals. So children, young adults tend to have that pre, that totally asymptomatic phase. And even, you know, young adults may have a very mildly symptomatic stage. I have somebody that I know right now who is a fairly young adult who got infected. We know he's infected is PCR positive. His only symptom was fever for a day, and then the only other symptom that persist is loss of smell. That's it. He got fever for literally one day. So, you know, you could have easily passed it as nothing happened, but it was that little, that incredible [inaudible] of suspicion saying, hey, well, fever and losing of smell that means you got COVID. They've got that person tested and we know that person is infected, and therefore that person has self-isolated and controlled, you know, spreading to others. >>Howard Bauchner: And looping back to the previous question. When can that person go back to work? So he or she had a fever, lasted 24 hours and is now well. When can that person return to work? >>Carlos del Rio: So 10 days after that PCR, or 72 hours after resolution of symptoms. This person could later on develop, you know, fever again or cough or any other symptoms, and that's what we need to monitor. >>Howard Bauchner: Right. Okay. Let's go through some of the issues that have come up more recently either on the front page of newspapers across my desk as opinion pieces or research. Increasing interest in the role of vitamin D. >>Carlos del Rio: You know, vitamin D is fascinating. I've even dabbled a little bit into vitamin D. It was part of a clinical trial looking at supplementing with vitamin D treatment of tuberculosis, because as you know there's some literature suggesting that people with vitamin E deficiency tend to have a more severe and respond less to therapy. Well, absolutely no difference. So there's a lot of diseases. And then you go through a literature that there's association with low vitamin D levels, but there's almost no evidence that correcting the vitamin D levels improves the outcomes. And I think with COVID, it's exactly the same. I think that you will find studies saying, oh, yeah, people with COVID are more likely to have low vitamin D, but that doesn't mean that if you give them vitamin D, now they're going to be better from COVID. That randomized, and again, I go back to the point that at the end of the day I like to see randomized clinical trials that show - I mean, the association does not mean causation. >>Howard Bauchner: Remdesivir, some positive results, some not positive results. In the best of worlds it may reduce mortality by 3, 4, or 5%. Still good. You certainly feel good if you're in the 3 or 4 or 5%, but if it's 100,000 deaths and it takes it down to 95,000 deaths, we still have a long way to go. Is it the right drug in all people? Are we giving it too late? Do we need combination therapy? Do you have a feel for that? I know you've been taking care of patients with COVID-19, so you must have a sense of that. >>Carlos del Rio: So I will say that I've also been part of the Act One and Act Two Studies. So I've been involved in the randomized clinical trials. I will say that today I'm pretty convinced, and we did this in Act Two, we made both arms receiver Remdesivir, and one of the arms received [inaudible] and the other one placebo, but both arms are getting Remdesivir. If I was going to get infected with COVID today and get hospitalized, in other words need oxygen, I would want Remdesivir. It is without doubt the only drug that has shown any effect at all, as of today. No other drug has shown any effect. That's the only drug has some signal. Is it a homerun? No. It's probably a solid single. But, you know, we still have a ways to go. But I feel, you know, I'm old enough to remember the early days of AZT therapy. I mean, this feels like AZT. You know, it gave a signal. It was the beginning of antiretroviral therapy, but it wasn't the end. You know, nowadays we're not using AZT. We're using very different drugs. We're using them in combination. So I think it's the beginning, but certainly not the answer. I think in maybe in a year or so we're going to be using combination therapies. We clearly need something we can give orally. Remdesivir is just IV. I understand that the company is working on an aerosolized form of Remdesivir. There's a drug being developed that was developed by investigators here at Emory, that is, you know, it's an oral drug, EMDD 2801. It is now in phase one clinical trials in England. So I think we're beginning to see better drugs and other drugs, but we need something orally. We need something we can get. Right now, there's nothing you can give to outpatients. There's literally no effective therapy. Hydroxychloroquine is being looked at in a randomized control trial at the outpatient setting. I think we desperately, desperately, desperately need more drugs. Remdesivir is like the only thing that works and it's only in very few group of patients. If you look at the Remdesivir data, once you got ICU care, once you were intubated, once you got [inaudible] it really made no difference. >>Howard Bauchner: So that's consistent. You know, JAMA published a paper last week about convalescent plasma, which has been given to thousands of people in the United States. We published a small trial from China. Had to end early because they didn't have sufficient number of patients. And the story was similar to what you just mentioned. It did not work very well in critically ill patients, but it worked better in seriously ill patients. Do you have a sense about convalescent plasma and have you used it in Emory at all? >>Carlos del Rio: I have not used it at Emory. I have some colleagues at Emory that are looking at convalescent plasma. I did review your article and actually wrote a summary of it for Journal Watch, Infectious Disease in which I'm an editor and I love that paper. I think it's a really interesting study. And again, what a good news to have to stop a trial because you didn't have enough patients. I wish I can say the same thing, right. But the reality is, we need randomized clinical data. And I think that study showed something very important, is that we maybe need to use convalescent therapy even earlier. And I think there's some really interesting people, interesting thoughts about using convalescent therapy in prevention. For example, you know, if you got somebody who has been heavily exposed, like in a nursing home, with convalescent therapy, convalescent plasma make a difference in that setting? We're also trying, beginning trials with [inaudible] antibodies in those settings. So I think that convalescent therapy is a really interesting approach. It may not be the answer. Maybe it's going to be monoclonal antibodies that you actually give you a higher dose of that antibody present in the convalescent plasma. What I like in the Chinese study was also that they tested the plasma and made sure that they have antibodies against the binding side, binding domain of the spike protein. And they only use plasma that had a titer of greater than one to six, to, I think it was 640. So again, they really look, not all convalescent plasma is the same and they made sure they really were using plasma that had good levels of neutralizing antibody. >> Howard Bauchner: Now, Carlos, along with a dozen, two dozen other people, you're one of the country's experts in vaccines. I had a chance of talking to Tony Fauci and Paul Offit last week. They said the same thing about vaccines, which I found very encouraging. Three or four major trials will be launched in the coming months. Projected numbers 30,000. Both said that one of the critical issues will be whether or not people in the control group are exposed to disease. Otherwise, it will be very hard to assess efficacy. Are you optimistic about a vaccine, Carlos? >>Carlos del Rio: You know, I have to be optimistic. I have to be hopeful. But I also have to be realistic. First of all, developing effective vaccines that prevent infections with respiratory viruses has been exceedingly difficult. I mean, we talk about the flu vaccine, has an efficacy of 40%. I mean, you know, it's a crappy vaccine. But if we get 40% efficacy out of this vaccine, we're going to be jumping, we're going to say this is great. The reality is a lot of people say, maybe we're going to get 30% at best. So, but we are hoping that the vaccine is going to be able to also prevent disease, prevent severe disease. So maybe you'll get infected, but you won't transmit it or you won't get disease. Now, there are two things that worry me. Number one, most of the vaccines we're looking at, are using platforms that, while very modern, have never been used in a vaccine that we have approved. mRNA, adenovirus vectors. In other words, DNA. There are vaccines that are very high tech, but none of them has proven to go all the way to an approval of a vaccine we're using. Number two is that doing a vaccine trial in the midst of a pandemic is exceedingly hard. You're chasing the virus, and the reality is we in public health, you're chasing the outbreak and we in public health are trying to stop it. So, you know, I feel like a little bit like, if you were a surfer, you're trying to find that great wave. But by the time you get there, the wave may be gone. So how do you predict not where the vaccine is, not where the outbreak is right now, but where the outbreak is going to be? So you can actually be there before it starts. Because otherwise, you know, as we're trying to stop transmission, you may get to a point that you say, Oh, we now are testing the vaccine, but we can't show efficacy because there's not enough endpoints. And I think that's going to be what, you know. The rush to get the clinical trials started in the next few weeks is because we really don't want to miss that opportunity to test a vaccine. Now, it may be that we actually have to move to South America. I mean, the situation right now in Brazil, in Argentina, and Chile, and Peru, and Mexico is very concerning. And maybe that's where we need to be doing the vaccine trial. >>Howard Bauchner: Yeah. I had sent you an email this morning. I mentioned I really did want to talk about low and middle income countries. And, you know, I sometimes worry that we don't talk very much about Central and South America. I know you have many contacts. You're a globalist. Could you talk a little bit about what your sense is of what's happening in the various Latin American countries? I know you can't talk about all of them. But do you have a sense of what's going on? >>Carlos del Rio: Well, you know, I think what's happening is what we've seen in many other countries, including ours, which is just this virus hits you like a, you know, punch in the face. I mean, we thought we were all prepared and we had all this great pandemic preparedness plans. And. boy, we were grossly unprepared. Imagine this country's that, you know, I was talking to colleagues in Mexico, they're having trouble buying tests. You know, they call the people at [inaudible] and they were told we'll get your test in 2021. Even if you had the resources, buying tests is not easy. And then you have all the issues of, you know, think about a city like Mexico City, or Sao Paulo, Brazil. Twenty million people crowding. You know, a lot of people living in shanty towns, in inner cities. A lot of people, you know, the metro Mexico City transport is what? You know, five million people a day. I mean, it's a perfect setting for spread of a virus like this one. So I am very concerned about cities in low and middle income countries. So I think that, I really worry that simply they don't have the bed capacity that we have. You know, I was hearing, again talking about Mexico because I know Mexico the most. I mean, Mexico, the entire country has no more than close to 4,000 ICU beds in the entire country of 100 and, you know, 20 million, 230 million people. I mean, that is a really, really small number. So the reality is that they're in serious trouble, and we have to realize that it's going to take a lot of leadership and a lot of will. And the population are very scared and mortality is going up. So I'm very concerned. And again, this is a global epidemic. We cannot be just focused on ourselves. We cannot just say, oh, it's okay in the United States. We're not going to worry about the rest of the world. Because we learned that. It started in China and we said it didn't matter, it's not going to get here, and all of a sudden we got the highest number of cases in the world. But right now you have US as number one, Brazil is number two, and Russia is number three. I mean, who would have imagined that that was going to be the order, you know, six months ago, three months ago? >>Howard Bauchner: Carlos, you know, I watched the data in the US, like many other people do. There's a lot of different tracking services, and some rank the different states, red, orange and green. You know, the US had been having about 20,000 new cases a day for almost two weeks, two weeks plus, and then over the weekend, it went to 23,000. I think then 27,000. I think the report for today is about to come out. Varying now, I mean, at the height of when the concern was that New York and Connecticut, it was 30 to 35,000 a day in a very focused three states. So that was very, very different. Do you have a sense of what's going on in the US or is it so variable from state to state, it's hard to make an overall comment about the US? Carlos del Rio: Well, that's absolutely right. I think the US is a patchwork of states, right? It's almost like talking about Europe. You know, you have multiple countries. Every state is a country, and, you know, we're seeing the New York cases have really gone down. But at the same time in California and Texas, Florida, Tennessee cases are really going up. So it's a patchwork of different places. I think you really have to dig down to the local level to understand the epidemiology, to understand what's happening. Now, I'm not surprised cases are going to go up. I mean, we decided to relax all restrictions in this country. I wish we had followed the relaxing of restrictions. And I would say, you know, CDC director and CDC has said that, you know, the virus is still here. You need to wear a mask when you're in public places. You need to social distance. But somehow, a large percentage of the population is pretty much said, oh, I'm done with this. I'm resuming my life. I'm very concerned that, you know. The other day I was driving around midtown Atlanta, and the restaurants were packed and people were not wearing masks. And you're like, okay, people, I mean, have you been not listening to what's going on? And, you know, 20,000, 25,000 new infections per day, new diagnosis per day and over 1,000 deaths per day. It's not a small number. I mean, we need to realize that this is still a significant epidemic. And we somehow cannot - we need to convince people that it's not the right time to just say I'm done with this. >> Howard Bauchner: Carlos, if we hover somewhere around 20 to 25,000 cases and they're spread out, I don't think the ICUs will get overwhelmed. At least I hope not. And then we get through the summer, and then we have the issue of 55 million children in school in the fall. We know that 35 to 50% of the deaths are in nursing homes. We know flu arrives in November, painting the picture of what the fall will bring. What are the bridge treatments? Is it monoclonal antibodies? Is it hyper immune immunoglobulin? Is it convalescent titer, convalescent plasma given earlier? What are the bridges, assuming that we do not have a successful vaccine in the fall? Which I don't think anyone anticipates. >> Carlos del Rio: Well, so I think there's several things. I think number one, is that, yes, we need to try to limit transmission, but limit disease among those highly vulnerable populations as much as we can. I mean, we need to remember that in this country, you know, 80% of cases have been in people under 65. Yet 80% of deaths have been in people over 65. We really need to protect the older population. I mean, I think that the places to be laser focused on in prevention right now are nursing homes, are the meatpacking industry, and our, you know, our jails, and is in people who live in the inner city who live in crowded conditions. We really need to focus on those individuals and try to, as much as we can, to diagnose cases but to stop transmission. I mean, if we can have testing in such a way that you pick up cases, but then you rapidly intervene, isolate, and prevent outbreaks, I think we're in good shape. You don't want a nursing home to have everybody infected. You want a nursing home, which you picked up a case, you test it. You know, all the residents you tested the staff and you were rapidly able to control the outbreak. I think if we do that we're going to be okay. And then we're going to have to rely on, yes, monoclonals, hyperimmune globulin, you know, convalescent plasma, Remdesivir, and a combination of these things to really try to control as much as we can mortality. And then I think we're going to have to, we'll get to the fall and, boy, we're going to be need to be sure that, first of all, let's hope that this flu season is not as bad as the past one. Let's hope the vaccine uptake is higher than it was, it has been in the past. And let's just hope that the vaccine trials give us some sort of signal. Now, I will tell you that, you know, public health is politics and politics, as you've seen in this epidemic, like nowhere before has influenced public health. And I would tell you that I would almost give you in writing that there's going to be a surprise, like two weeks before the election, we will hear there's an effective vaccine. There's somebody who needs to be reelected, who will rely on saying I got you a vaccine. And it may be, I don't know what they're going to do with the data, but I'm really concerned that we may have a not very effective vaccine, which is going to be touted like the success of the world, and it's going to be used as a as a political tool. So I think we, in science, need to stay focused, and we need to stay true to the science and the data, and not be swayed by what I worry about may be political manipulations. >>Howard Bauchner: Yeah. I have faith that the scientific community will stand up and talk about efficacy and safety. Safety will be the other major issue. We have people who are hesitant about vaccines. I'm not talking about the people who just disregard them or don't believe them at all. But I'm a pediatrician and I am worried about the 20 or 25% of people who are just hesitant about vaccines. So I do think the scientific community will really have to provide as much precise information as possible and be truthful with what we know and don't know, and then people can make good decisions. One last question. >>Carlos del Rio: I agree with you. >>Howard Bauchner: One last question before I get to all of the questions. Carlos, is there a way schools can reopen? >>Carlos del Rio: You know, it's a really good question. I think we're increasingly realizing that there may be a way, but it may not be schools like it used to be before. In other words, we're not going to go back to normal. We're going to be going forward to a new normal. As you know, Rochelle and I wrote in our editorial viewpoint for you. >> Howard Bauchner: Right. >> Carlos del Rio: Is we need to think about what is the new normal going to look like. And the new normal is not going to be the old normal. We're going to have to have this bridge normal in which maybe schools are going to have to have shifts, and maybe continue to do a mix of, you know, online and live education, and maybe be able to monitor symptoms closely. And, you know, in some communities that there's very little disease, you can go back to normal. So again, I don't think you can make recommendations for the entire country. I really think communities are going to have to look community by community, looking at their epidemiology, looking at their cases. Even, you know, in a city like Atlanta, I can tell you there's some communities, some areas, some zip codes, that I think it'd be fine opening while there's some other zip codes that I'll be more concerned about. And I think public health is really going to have to practice. You know, we get an enamored with precision medicine. I think we're going to have to practice precision public health, right. We're going to have to use data to really focus what we do. And with good data, we may be able to open, go back to schools. I think opening school is going to be critical. If you don't open schools, people cannot go to work. I mean, it's very hard to talk about, you know, parents going to work if schools are still, if the kids are still home. >>Howard Bauchner: Yeah, we've had a one or two viewpoints about the issue, in part because people are now talking about this COVID slide. It's 55 million children between two and three years of age and 18 who are in school, and what the consequences would be if we are forced to keep so many children home from school. There's so many services that are provided. And as you said, many parents can't work if their children can't go to school. It's already disrupted summer, and summer plans and I do hope that we can sort this out for the fall. So some questions. Cloth mask versus surgical masks, which one is better? >>Carlos del Rio: Well, you know, it depends on the cloth mask. I think surgical masks tend to be better because they're uniformly made. I think cloth masks, I've seen some very thin cloths that, you know, I can put my hand on the other side and literally feel the air coming out. And I can have - I have seen other cloth masks that I have two or three, you know, surface, two or three layers that are very good at protecting. We got to remember that either there's a cloth mask or a surgical, a procedure mask. The idea of using that, I think about a surgeon. You put it to prevent your mouth germs to going into the patient. So it's to keep you from infecting others. It's not to keep others from infecting you. So a good test that I tell people is put your mask on. Then put your hand about a couple inches away and then blow. And if you can feel the air hitting your hand, it's probably not a good mask. >>Howard Bauchner: Right. Can people get reinfected? This comes up all of the time. >>Carlos del Rio: All the time. >>Howard Bauchner: What's your sense of it? >>Carlos del Rio: My sense is it can happen, but it's rare. I think the great majority of people that get infected, even those that are asymptomatic there's some really nice data from the USS Roosevelt. Even the soldiers that have very little symptoms, but who clearly had evidence of infection circumverted, 92% of them circumverted and developed neutralizing antibodies. Now, there's 8% of them that did not. So I guess those 8% can probably get re-infected. So I would say it's the exception rather than the rule. >>Howard Bauchner: But over 90% are developing neutralizing antibodies generally as IGG. I know there's IGA may provide some form of protection, but it's largely IGM, then IGG with IGG being most of the neutralizing antibodies, correct? >> Carlos del Rio: The question is, like and other Coronaviruses, we don't know how long those would last. You know, is it going to be six months, a year? I don't think it's going to be long life, long lasting immunity to the Coronavirus based on what we know from prior infections. >> Howard Bauchner: o, you know, the Remdesivir studies have been published. We published, you know, a study observational that said hydroxychloroquine was not effective. It's not the only journal. Other journals have published the same observational studies. But the issue of zinc and hydroxychloroquine has come up. Do you have a sense if zinc could really changed the effectiveness of hydroxychloroquine? >> Carlos del Rio: You know, I'm really not sure. I mean, I think what we desperately need in hydroxychloroquine is a well-controlled, randomized clinical trial. I mean, unfortunately, all the studies out there are not what I would call the kind of evidence that I would like to see to say, okay, this works or this doesn't work. And that's why good design clinical trials are really critical. And the reality is a lot of the decisions that we are currently making are based on not what I call evidence-based medicine, but it's like feel-good kind of medicine. All right. I want to do something and I think this works. And it's very much based on case reports. So it's hard for me to know. I think hydroxychloroquine still needs to be - we need to have the kind of data that once and for all says this works, or this doesn't work. >> Howard Bauchner: I think it was a reasonable question to be asked within a clinical trial. >> Carlos del Rio: Correct. >> Howard Bauchner: And I do appreciate that, you know, if you're taking care of someone who's critically ill, you'd like to do everything you can. To the extent that we can try to continue to keep people within randomized clinical trials, we can get answers to the question. Otherwise, I fear we'll get to the fall and we still won't have not answered the question around numerous drugs, not just chloroquine but there will be other drugs that we still can't answer the question, is it worth using or not? >>Carlos del Rio: And that's so true. And that's why, again, I'm a big proponent that we have to do well-done randomized clinical trials, because that's how you develop evidence. And if you see, you know, the NIH just recently, last week, updated the NIH treatment guidelines for Coronavirus. And again, they emphasize hydroxychloroquine should only be used within the context of a clinical trial. >>Howard Bauchner: What is the possibility of people developing antibodies to COVID-19 due to infections with other viruses in the family of Coronaviruses? >> Carlos del Rio: Highly unlikely. There are different enough. I think if you were infected with SARS you probably have some level of immunity. But, you know, at best we had, what, 9000 cases of SARS around the world? So there are not that many people out there that had SARS. But if you happen to be one of those you probably are immune to this virus, I would almost bet you because they're so closely related. >> Howard Bauchner: BCG. There were some early reports of countries that had high levels of use of BCG had lower amounts of disease. And I said, well, just wait. Let's see what happened. Early in the pandemic you can't really make any of those assessments. You need to wait until there's exposure within those countries. Any sense of BCG and Coronavirus? >>Carlos del Rio: I don't think it makes a difference. It reminds me many years ago. I wish I could pull the abstract. But many years ago in one of the international ACE conferences, like I think in '93 or '94, in Yokohama, they presented data from India saying that BCG protected from HIV, because there were no cases in India. And I said the same thing. Just you wait and look at India right now. Right? So I think we need to be careful about those epidemiological associations that don't really mean much. And, you know, I've seen so many of those come up with this disease. I mean, most recently, you know, I saw one that said that, you know, postmenopausal women were less likely to be infected, and therefore, you know, estrogen was somehow, you know, lack of estrogen was somehow protected. And, you know, come on. I mean, we really need to do - that's why good epidemiology is critically important, just like randomized clinical trials. We really need good epidemiologists to be doing those studies and not just simply people doing associations. >> Howard Bauchner: I don't do very much looking back or hindsight. We know we had testing problems in this country. We know we've had troubles with masks. We know we struggled with a very consistent message. Carlos, you know, we have 325 million people in the United States, many with different views of risk and different views of how government should influence their lives. I do think we lost the message around the need for masking and social distancing. Can we get it back, Carlos? Or is it just lost? >> Carlos del Rio: You know, that's a really good question. I think that one of the things that, you know, crisis communication is so hard, because also, you know, you're kind of building the boat as you're sailing. You know, during the anthrax attack, Jeff Copeland said something to me. Said, you know, he said, I wish we had known yesterday what we know today. It's so hard to do that. But you need to be communicating effectively, promptly, and be able to say, look, what I'm telling you today is based on what we know today, which will be very different from what we know later on. I mean, at the beginning, we were telling people, you know, masks should only be for medical personnel. Part of that was we have done a lot based on scarcity, right? Instead of saying, look, everybody should wear a mask, but for now being we only are going to reserve them to hospitals, because we don't have enough masks. We instead of saying that we said, oh, no, masks should just be for the hospitals. So I think our messaging wasn't developed the right way. And then as more evidence came along, then we started trying to shift our message, and we weren't good enough at communicating that the evidence now supported this, that, and the other. I hope that we can get back to people understand the importance of masking. Masking to me, you know, there was a recent study, mathematical study from Imperial College. >> Howard Bauchner: Yeah, I saw it. >> Carlos del Rio: Saying that if 50% or more of the population use masks, we can bring the [inaudible] down to less than one. You know, that to me is like, guys, we got a vaccine. But then again, I've been working in HIV for way too many years. And, you know, same thing. Why can we get people to wear condoms? Right. If we had been using condoms, we wouldn't be chasing a vaccine right now. So again, changing behavior is incredibly hard. And there's a component of masking that has to do with behavior. Now masks are useful for not only prevention transformation. I tell people, if I'm wearing a mask, and you see me with a mask, it's also a reminder that something's still out there. And if you see me with a mask, it's just saying, hey, Coronavirus has not gone away. And it will also allow you to start thinking about social distancing. I'm about to give you a hand or give you a hug, I see you wearing a mask, I'm going to step back. So I think there's also a component of a mask that I think goes beyond just the virus protection. And therefore I really think we need to get masks to be back in vogue. I mean, somehow we need to get all our, you know, our people that are trendsetters to be using masks with, you know, nice designs, and nice things, because if we make it fashionable I think young people are going to be more likely to wear a mask and to think this is a really cool thing to do. And we got to get that. >>Howard Bauchner: It's interesting. I got on the elevator with someone. I was walking home and there's an elevator between two levels of where I live. It's a short ride. And when I got on the elevator I always wear a mask inside. When I'm outside I have to say I usually wear a mask, but if no one's near me, I may take it off. Inside I always wear a mask. And I went to get in the elevator. This woman was already on the elevator, and she said, well, I'd appreciate it if you don't get on, because I don't want to get infected. But she wasn't wearing a mask. And I didn't know if there was elevator etiquette, but I didn't know what to say to her. To say, look, I'm protecting you, but you don't have a mask on. You're not protecting me at all. And it is so much about behavior to try to recreate that notion that wearing a mask needs to be the norm, particularly in closed environments or even outside when you're near people. >> Carlos del Rio: So the other day I was getting on the elevator in the hospital. Same thing. You know, I was wearing a mask, but somebody was getting on the elevator without a mask. And I literally said to that person, look, if you're not wearing a mask then I need to get off the elevator, right. Because I think what you said is absolutely right. You weren't wearing a mask because you were protecting that person. But that person not wearing a mask means that person wasn't protecting you. And we need to get that message across. Wearing a mask is not about me, it's about you. It's about how can I prevent this from getting to others. And therefore, I'm hoping to get people to understand that this is about community. You know, if you care about community, if you care about where you live, if you care about your fellow citizens, wear a mask. I mean, it's a really simple message. >> Howard Bauchner: And the other thing is, there's almost no side effects from wearing it. There's not many medical interventions where we don't have to worry that we could potentially be doing harm. >>Carlos del Rio: Right. I mean, you know, you can talk about, there is a couple of people say, well, if I wear a mask, I'm asthmatic, I'm worried about it. But, you know, again, I remind people, you know, my colleague surgeons are wearing masks the whole damn day and they're working just fine. And, you know, you get used to it. It doesn't take that long to get used to it to make it part of your standard. And look at countries in Asia. I mean, many countries in Asia had been wearing masks on a population level for decades and they do it just fine. It becomes the norm. It's almost like wearing a seatbelt. Right. I mean, nowadays, nobody thinks about, when you get in a car you put a seatbelt on. >>Howard Bauchner: This is Howard Bauchner, and it's been conversations with Dr. Bauchner. I am so pleased. Carlos has written quite a bit for JAMA in the last couple months. He's a Hubert Professor and Chair of the Hubert Department of Global Health at Rollins School of Public Health of Emory. One of the world's leaders in global health vaccine development. And just gives really practical information. Carlos, thanks so much for joining me today. >> Carlos del Rio: It's been really a pleasure, Howard. >> Howard Bauchner: I'll have you back in a few more weeks and we can take it up again. >> Carlos del Rio: Sounds good to me. >> Howard Bauchner: Stay healthy. >> Carlos del Rio: Thank you so much. Same to you. >>Howard Bauchner: Bye, Carlos. >> Carlos del Rio: Bye.