Hello and welcome to this author interview. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief of JAMA. And once again, I'm joined by Tony Fouchy, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Welcome, Tony. Good to be with you, Howard. Uh, you've been at the NIH for 40 years. Have you ever seen anything quite like this? No, I'd have to say quite honestly, Howard, this is totally unique. I mean, we've been through uh emerging infectious diseases, experiences, and in some cases crises like we had with the anthrax scare back in 2001, the early years of HIV, the scares of the prepandemic H5N1, H7N9, the uncertainty of the 2009 H1N1 swine flu, But nothing of the magnitude of this because those things uh many of them evolved slowly as with HIV even though it turned out ultimately to be you know a terrible uh you know a front of the human civilization with a lot of suffering and death ultimately it was over many many years many of the other threats never really materialized uh Ebola although there was a lot of concern about it. There was never really any serious concern that it was going to be a widespread outbreak in the United States, although it devastated in some respects several African countries, particularly the West African countries early on. But to have a situation now where you have the evolution of an outbreak that clearly we know what it can do. We've seen what happened in China. We see what is currently happening in the European countries particularly uh Italy and France and other European countries and we know it's right now here in the United States. It shouldn't, I I think, panic us or frighten us, but we really need to realize that we're dealing with a serious problem that we have to address. And we have to address it in a very bold way, which I think you're starting to see now that both from the federal government, the state, local, as well as individuals are right now mobilizing to try and address this emerging threat, which is really quite serious. I want to pick up on uh one of the points you just made Tony and I I want to thank you obviously I sent you an email this morning about I think the need to you know talk with another physician about it. Um I saw just a change in the resolve of the US last week and I think it followed uh what was occurring in in uh Washington state and then the reports from Italy which were so enormously concerning. So I I sense both resolve but I do sense panic and I'm just wondering if what's your sense of that? Well, you know, um obviously when when the general public who is certainly not used to thinking about or even needing to address something like this, uh there is in in many respects something, you know, it varies between person and person, but it's something that in some individuals borders on panic because there's the uncertainty. they do not know where it is going. So what I try to do when I talk to people publicly as well as privately is channel the energy associated with what might be panic with the resolve uh or towards the resolve to do something about it. I mean obviously panic is an understandably human feeling, reaction, emotion. U try to best as you can at every level to put that aside and say, you know, there's a lot of energy in that. Let's get that energy and apply it to doing the things that we know can actually mitigate this. And I think the case in point, Howard, is looking at the recommendations which came out a couple of days ago about mitigation things that might have appeared then and even to some people now as really a bit of an inconvenience. Why do you want to stay away from bars and restaurants and sporting events? Why do you want to cancel gatherings? why you're telling all the old people and the people with conditions to essentially uh isolate themselves in their own homes. There is a really good public health reason to do that. And and I want to appeal specifically to the people who are the younger group who feel understandably I I you know I'm thinking back when I was in my 20s and 30s I had the the feeling that's understandable but unreasonable that I'm invulnerable and because they see the statistics show that in general younger people do really very well. The overwhelming majority of them do fine. They get an illness that can be mild. They recover and they're fine. But they have a responsibility in society to protect themselves not only because there is a possibility they could have a serious uh consequence but as important is that they may be the vectors of the infection that could continue its spread. I had a phone call just this morning, uh, the WHO phone call where the WH group essentially gets the dozens and dozens of people from throughout the world on the phone to relate their experiences and to learn from each other. And in the conversation was uh uh people from Italy and France uh and others who had visited saying almost pleading with the rest of the world to please take this very seriously because it happens all of a sudden very abruptly. you have some cases, there are not a lot of cases and then all of a sudden boom, it starts to skyrocket. And the best time to mitigate is before that happens because if you wait until after it happens, you're playing catchup and catchup doesn't work very well with this outbreak. Yeah, I I have been incredibly impressed just the last six, seven days, the resolve at many hospitals and academic med medical centers to really expand their capacity if necessary. Well, as you can imagine, there's a couple specific questions, Tony. Quite a few. Again, I'll try to keep it to 30 35 minutes. I so worry about the demands on your time. So, once again, um sensitivity of testing early in the disease, you know, we've talked about that in in the past. uh any newer data, you know, is it above 90% early in the disease? Is it higher? Where are we on testing and and sensitivity? You know, when you say early in the disease, uh let's get sort of really specific so people will know what we're talking about, Howard. Sure. I'm saying if an individual gets exposed, somebody coughs on me right now who is clearly has coronavirus disease and the virus enters into my nasoparangal space and perhaps into my lung. How long is it going to take uh for me to turn positive? First of all, we don't know the answer to that. We can surmise it, I think reasonably so, and say, well, the virus would stop replicating to the point where you'd get some symptoms at a median of about 5 days, the range being 2 to 14. So again, I don't have a clinical study proving anything, but I could say it's not going to happen immediately. I think if somebody coughs on me now and then I go down to the wherever it is that does the testing and I get a test, I'm going to be negative. I mean, I'm almost sure I'll be negative. Maybe in two days, which is the lower limit of the bracket of the incubation period, you might start turn positive then. When you get to the point where you're symptomatic, you almost always are positive. Okay. So I think it's in that bracket between a couple of days from exposure to the time which is the median time. And Howard, let me caution our viewers and listeners that that this is just an extrapolation. This isn't solid data that we've done a major study to do this. Yeah. I I think what's so unique about about you Tony is you're very very willing to say there's unknown and and uh move on. So let's let's go to some of the other questions crossing my desk every day. uh quite a bit of concern about non-steroidals. There was a tweet by someone in France based upon a letter in another journal that didn't have a lot of data. Any sense about non-steroidals and people avoiding them if uh you know they're developing s symptoms? Should they switch to acetammenophen or just not enough data to know? Well, first of all, there's not enough data in any event, positively or negatively. What I suspect happened, Howard, there was, you know, sometimes discussions off the cuff turn into letters, turn into social media turn into a lot of discussion, and you have no idea where it comes from. What I think likely happened was that people were thinking well you know with influenza in children if you take aspirin you can possibly get rise syndrome which as we know is a neurological uh disease and and syndrome in mostly in children and then I think somebody made the the the the leap from that to say well you know if you give anti-inflammatories you give non-steroidals it may be the same thing Well, most non-steroidals, not most non-aspirin, non-steroidals are not aspirin, number one, and it depends on what you want to use the non-steroidal for. If you really want to just bring the temperature down, I mean, Tylenol every six hours is the way to go. As we all know as physicians, bottom line is I have not seen any firm data to indicate there's a problem or to prove that there's not a problem. Um, another clinical issue that's really uh uh come up the last few days is this issue about ACE and ARBs in individuals who are either on them or develop disease. Now, the Heart Failure Society of America, ACC and AHA just came out with a statement yesterday. Um, uh, I don't know how familiar you are with the question, Tony, but I'll let you comment. Well, I am quite familiar with the question. So here's the issue and this is something that I I take a little bit more seriously about. We really need to get data and we need to get data fast, Howard. And here's the reason why. If you look at the mechanistic rationale for concern, it's it's pretty, you know, it it it's there and it's and it's firm. And that is that when you when you do when you give an ACE inhibitor or an ACE inhibitor can result I say can can result in an increase expression of the receptor for ACE. So what is possible is that people who are on ACE inhibitors, a very commonly used drug for hypertension, that they may be without knowing it, increasing the expression of receptors for the virus itself. That's an extrapolation that's not based on known data, but it is a possibility that we need to address. I was struck by something that I read just early this morning, Howard. There was an article, I think Bloomberg published it from a medical uh uh summary that in I believe it was Italy or in Europe, but I think it was in Italy that 99% of the people who died had an underlying condition. That's not surprising. However, when they broke down the underlying conditions, 75% of it was hypertension, which was to me a bit of a red flag because Italy is a very developed country. And I would imagine if you knew the patient had hypertension, then the patient almost certainly had a physician. and that physician almost certainly treated the person for their hypertension. So if you could imagine and again this is this is just my putting some dots together Howard. This is no data. I'm just you know giving you right off the top of my head. If 75% of those so-called underlying conditions was hypertension and the hypertension was well controlled. Why should someone who has hypertension that's wellont controlled have a much greater chance of dying than somebody else with any other kind of underlying condition. I mean I look upon someone who has well-controlled hypertension and nothing else wrong with them as a reasonably healthy person. yet it was skewed towards people with hypertension which tells me I don't know what the answer is but somebody better look really carefully and that's what we're hopefully going to get that data from the Italian scientist when they did the natural history data is there any way they could find out what drugs those individuals were on it may turn out to be absolutely nothing but I think we need to at least look at it uh Tony many questions And so let's just go through them. Anything new on children? You know, we've talked about this before. It's clear that they get disease. Uh on rare occasions, they get serious disease, but it still appears as though the mortality rate, the amount of serious disease in children is very small. That is still correct. No doubt. If you look at the demographic profiles of the cases from the countries where there is a lot of experience, China, South Korea now accumulating experience in uh the European countries, it looks like that data hold true. But as we know in biology and medicine, it's never 100%. But clearly the the the rather strong bulk of the data indicate that children do quite well when they get infected. Um uh similar to last time, respiratory spread versus droplets and then the question about how safe are all the packages that people are now getting delivered to their homes. Well, there was a paper that came out a couple of days ago uh from uh Vincent Müster, Mu Nter. He's at the Rocky Mountain Laboratories here at NIDA in Hamilton, Montana. and he did a study where he looked at the viability namely the ability to culture virus on a variety of surfaces as well as how long it lasts in an aerosol form. Aerosol being that the droplet which suspends the virus is around five microns and so it can stay in the air uh for you know several minutes before immediately dropping to the floor where a larger droplet would essentially fall right down to whatever surface it is. But getting back to the viability of the virus on surfaces, they compared it to stainless steel, cloth, uh, polyropylene, etc., etc. And if you look at the at the data, it goes rather substantially down, probably to a level that is detectable, but so low that it may not have clinical impact in most cases by, you know, 36 to 48 hours. So I think you'd have to assume though we don't know because even though you can detect it, it may be a dose response situation, but it looks like that up to two days on these surfaces. Having said that, you would imagine that if somebody puts something in a crate in Shanghai and gets it on a boat and sends it to Seattle or San Francisco, that by the time it gets there that there is no viable virus. So in that regard, I think that an inanimate object that comes from a place where there's a high degree of infection is much different than a doorork knob where somebody sneezes in their hand, opens the door, and you come there five minutes later. I mean, that's the reason why there's recommendations to the extent that you possibly can to essentially wipe off surfaces that are frequently used. communally by a lot of people. Um, every few days a new therapy emerges. Um, I know my intensive care unit colleagues are are concerned that these the use of varying therapies may make it really difficult to hone in on effective treatments. So, the one that people have been focused on the last few days is hydroxychloricquin. Um, any sense of what's happening with that? Well, yeah. Yeah. What I think is going to happen, Howard, I think that when you know there's it's so much out there on social media and even in medical letters, particularly un reviewed reports uh that people are going to just start using that anyway. So hopefully we'll be able to put a program where you could make it accessible to people at the same time as you're studying it. But that's an active discussion. No decisions have been made yet about that. But I would imagine the more people read about that, the more likely they would want to just try it empirically. Uh you and I have talked before um protecting the elderly and protecting health care workers is critical to the future ability to provide care. Um lots of concerns about health care workers, who to test, who not to test, when they can return to work. Uh any evolving issues? I know the CDC just released some new recommendations, although less focused on healthcare workers and more on the general populace. Yeah. I mean, the the recommendations that we that we rolled out two days ago and discussed yesterday at at the press conference at the White House, the the issue that I think is important that we're going to be facing because I believe I got off the phone u this morning early with some of our colleagues from New York City. Uh, and it it involves sort of like almost a Sophie's choice where you're going to need personal protective equipment to do testing so you could protect the person who sticks that that swab into your nasop fernx and you start coughing up. But you also need PPEs for the actual health care providers who are taking care of patients. And I think a supply issue is going to be something that's front and center in discussions and concern. Do we have enough equipment and if not how do we get it so that you can both protect the people who might be administering the test as well as those who are taking care of patients. I think the issue Howard of the drivein walk-in uh facilities which are now starting to stand up uh you know as of the announcement from the FDA and the CDC and uh and asper yesterday u that in fact that might uh sort of modify the problem a little bit because if you give somebody a a uh a swab and you ask them to essentially swab themselves and put it in the appropriate vehicle and give it, you can sort of get away from the need of PPE because the person is alone by themselves doing that. But the issue of the distribution of PPEs is going to be one that really needs to be addressed. For the um health care worker who ultimately tests positive, um is it two negatives before they can come back? Is it seven days and they're symptom free? Is there a final decision on that recommendation? Well, you know, uh, Howard, that is an evolving story for the following reason. When you have a couple of health care workers who get infected, you say obviously the perfect thing to do is they recover from the symptomatology and they have two negative swabs separated by 24 hours. We are approaching a point where you're going to get enough people who are infected that you're going to have to look at that and say we we don't even have the ability to do that. We're going to have to by good judgment make a decision about how many days post alleviation of symptoms can they go back to work otherwise we're going to be you know not having enough healthcare workers to go back into the field and do that. So I would say how it's an evolving situation and if we get into a situation, for example, New York is already in in a situation where they're really having difficulty about making these hard decisions. Um Tony, there's still a number of antivirals that are being used uh by intensivists, but there are also some that are under uh under study. any any new emerging data about the antivirals and the spec different specific antivirals? Well, you know, uh the answer is no, but I hope that we'll get it soon. You know, as I mentioned on on a previous podcast, Howard, the u the Chinese have two studies that are ongoing. One is for advanced coronavirus disease and the other is for early coronavirus disease. And I believe it's powered to about five four to 500 patients per uh one of the study with advanced disease has a bit between 200 and 300 individuals so far. They're having a difficulty enrolling people now. It's a randomized trial because you know people want to get the drug and don't you know they don't want to be in the trial. They want to just get the drug. What I think would be important is if the Chinese data and safety monitoring board can take a really close look at the data and see if there's any hint of anything either efficacy and or hopefully not any adverse events because we desperately need the data because as the word gets out sometimes based on very little data and only anecdote that these things work whether it's kletra kitra whatever you want to call or desave or any other of the drugs, we've got to be able to determine if they work and if they're safe and and that's going to be really a challenge as the weeks unfold and cases increase. Tony, do you think so? I was talking to a number of people this morning. Um, so we we know uh the Seattle area has struggled. There's been some hospitals in the Bay Area that have really struggled with the number of cases. obviously my hometown of Boston just the last two or three days and then I think for many reasons people are concerned about New York the density of the population um although I think the intensive care units are continuing to do generally well do do you have a sense you know we really started much more stricter social distancing a few days ago I would say late last week over the weekend uh thanks to you and your your comments publicly about the need to do that and I think uh people became enormously concerned about data from Italy and from Seattle. The incubation period's about two weeks give or take a few days. My sense is that by April 1, early April, we'll really have a sense if we can manage in in terms of serious illness. We won't we still may not know that much about CRO prevalence in the community. and you commented on that yesterday in the press conference, but my sense is other than that those four local most of the uh metropolitan areas are doing reasonably well with intensive care unit beds and that by April 1, early April, we'll have a better sense about how this is going to go. But I know you don't like to put specific dates or numbers on it, but what is your sense of what the next two or three weeks are going to tell us? No, I I think you're right, uh, Howard. um we're going to know for better or worse whether we have enough of what it takes to be able to practice the kind of medicine that we optimally would want to practice because uh I mean if you look at the cases every day and look at the a very important number how many of the cases are new like as of last night there was 900 and something new yesterday there was 700 new the day before there was 500 new if that continues to accelerate And within that group, there'll be people who have serious disease that need intensive care. You're right. Pretty soon, in a matter of a week or two, I guess it's the 18th of March right now, you know, um 12 days from now, 13 days from now is about your time frame of two weeks. I think we will get a feel for whether or not we really do have enough of the supplies that it takes. I I might mention Howard that, you know, there there's the supplies that are out there and then there's the strategic national stockpile which has a lot of stuff in it, but you know, you need to backfill that as quickly as you can once you start drawing from the strategic national stockpile. Tony, some some questions have come across my de death desk about equity and health equity and and who's going to have supplies and won't won't have supplies. New York's a case in point. You have really well-endowed uh institutions, Columbia, Cornell, Mount Sinai. And then you have the public hospital system which may not have the same resources. How how does the city of New York how does medicine the house of medicine think about that issue? you know, it's it's really a tough situation and I think it's going to require a group of people who bring in perspectives from all different uh uh components of society. You want to talk about what the physician scientists feel, uh what the person in the street, the general citizen, what ethicist ethicists feel. Uh and you really got to sit down and hash it out about what the most appropriate thing to do is. It's a very very difficult situation. If we ever get to that point, we will have to make a decision who gets something and who does not get something. That creates a considerable amount of ethical stress and ethical dilemmas. So it's not something that any one person or anyone organization can decide by themselves. You really have to get representation of broad components of society in that. Is there is there anything more that local, state, and federal government must do? Well, you know, obviously we all need to to to realize that it is it is really all hands on deck here. None of this can be taken, you know, as a matter of casual issues. And I I refer specifically to people taking a really good look at the guidelines that were published on coronavirus.gov or ccdc.gov. Take a look at them and to the best of your ability try and stick by it. I know it's inconvenient for some. I know some people may disagree with it, but it's really based on uh an appreciation of what is going on in other countries. So, uh one other point and then one other question and I'm done. Firstly, Bob Harrington is a graduate of Holy Cross. You couldn't make him prouder. and uh uh he he says all of the Holy Cross alums are incredibly proud of you. But Tony, a much a different question. You grew up in Brooklyn, but you're a New York Yankee fan. Now Tony, I I'm a New Jersey guy, and I ended up being a San Francisco Giant fan because my brother used to root for the New York Giants. How'd you end up as a New York Yankee fan? Well, for those who know back then in the late 40s, early 50s when New York City had three teams, they had the New York Giants, the New York Yankees, and the Brooklyn Dodgers. And as strange as it seems, in Brooklyn, there was about 60% Brooklyn Dodger fans, and literally about 40% New York Yankee fans. The interesting thing is that very few people were New York Giant fans [laughter] except the people who lived in the Bronx and lived in upper Manhattan. But it is not unusual. I'm not an outlier. There were many many of my friends, you know, the comparison between Mickey Mantel and Duke Snder, right? The comparison between uh Joe Collins and uh and Gil Hajes and Peewee Ree and Phil Rudo. I mean, the arguments we used to have in the candy stores used to be incredible. Yeah. Uh, as I said, I grew up a Giant fan. I was doing well until my mother threw away all my baseball cards. It was so painful. I had all those rookie cards. All right. Uh, Tony, there's other questions. I I really want to let you go. Um, stay healthy, stay safe. You're a national treasure. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief of JAMA. I've had the great privilege once again once again of talking with Tony Fouchy uh institute director National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Tony, thanks again. Good to be with you, Howard. Always be well.