>> Howard Bauchner: Hello and welcome to this author interview. This is "Conversations with Dr. Bauchner" and I'm here with Sherry Glied. And Sherry's written a wonderful viewpoint for us in the "COVID-19 The Sequel", that's what I call it, other people we've named it "Beyond Tomorrow". It's entitled "The Potential Effects of Coronavirus on National Health Expenditures". Sherry is the Dean of the New York University Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Health. Shew was named Dean in 2013. She's a professor of Health Policy and Management at Columbia University's Mailman's School of Public Health. And before coming there, Sherry was Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation in the Department of Health and Hospitals. Sherry, before we begin what does that mean? You were the Secretary for Planning and Evaluation for the Department of Health and Human Services. >> Sherry Glied: So [inaudible] the name of that position in Washington is the ASPE, it's called the ASPE. >> Howard Bauchner: Right. >> Sherry Glied: And it's probably the most fun job in all of [inaudible]. So I'm an incredibly lucky person to have had it. It's basically the person in the Department of Health and Human Services who is really tasked with being the in-house think tank for the department to deal with whatever complicated problems arise and don't have a natural home in one of the many operating divisions of the department so if you think about health and human services, it contains in it the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the NIH, the FDA, the [inaudible], right? So one of the things that the ASPE does is in the boundaries among all of those different agencies, think about the issues that confront multiple of them and also deals with things that are absolutely novel. So when the Affordable Care Act first passed there wasn't any part of HHS that was tasked with actually implementing this thing because it had never existed before and there wasn't a group of people doing it. So the very first regulations the Secretary had to promulgate regulations, she said "Well, who's going to do it? Give it to ASPE. If you don't know who to give it to, you give it to ASPE." So we [inaudible] it's just a portfolio of all the most challenging and interesting problems that the department faces. It was a wonderful job and I've worked with fabulous people. >> Howard Bauchner: How many years were you there, Sherry? >> Sherry Glied: I was there just over 2 years. My family stayed in New York and after a while I got, I got- >> Howard Bauchner: The commute was- >> Sherry Glied: tired of missing them, yes, the commute- I think my theory is that you can commute a 100 times and after 100 commutes, it just gets to be too much. >> Howard Bauchner: Alright. So the title of this viewpoint I've already mentioned is "The Potential Effects of Coronavirus on National Health Expenditures". Sherry, before we go into it could you say a little bit about your co-author, I always like to- >> Sherry Glied: Sure. >> Howard Bauchner: make sure they get acknowledged. >> Sherry Glied: Yes, so Helen Levy who's my co-author on this was at the Council of Economic Advisors while I was at ASPE and we worked together on various issues around the Affordable Care Act. She's a professor at University of Michigan, also a health economist by training and has thought a lot about national health expenditures and about the value of health care spending, so I thought she'd be a great co-author for this. >> Howard Bauchner: So obviously we're in the midst of the coronavirus epidemic pandemic. Healthcare spending is really going to be very different by the end of this year and their projections than it was at the beginning of the year. I thought I'd just read something that you wrote at the beginning. "Through no fault of their own, the CMS prognosticators are poised to take their place in history behind economist Irving Fisher, who pronounced that "Stock prices have reached what looks like a permanently high plateau shortly before the market crash of 1929." >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible]. >> Howard Bauchner: So for the last couple of years healthcare spending, as part of the gross domestic product, has actually trickled down a little bit from 17.9 or 18% down to 17.7, 17.8, if you have confidence intervals, it's probably just the same. >> Sherry Glied: Yep, yep. >> Howard Bauchner: There's a numerator and there's a denominator, could you just explain the numerator and the denominator? >> Sherry Glied: Sure, so the numerator, the folks at the Office of the Actuary, the Center for Medicare Medicaid Services every year they collect data on national health expenditures. This is an enormous undertaking actually if you think about it. They have to get information on where all the money in the healthcare system is spent. Nursing homes, dental care, primary care, hospitals, everything, medicines, whatever, that's the numerator, that total national health expenditure number. And the denominator is the GDP of the United States, which economists can think of, you can think of it in two ways, one is all of the output of the United States and we think of it that way, the gross domestic product of the United States. The other piece of it is all of the things that we buy and consume and our savings so those things are necessarily equal to each other. We can forget about exports and imports, the United States we don't do a lot of that so-- It's all everything we produce or you might think of it as everything we consume and save. And the thing about coronavirus that's really interesting here is that it's going to make a big difference both in the numerator and in the denominator of that equation. >> Howard Bauchner: So before the pandemic, what was the numerator going to be this year and what was the denominator going to be? >> Sherry Glied: Well, I'm going to have to give you the actual numbers. >> Howard Bauchner: Oh no you- >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible]. >> Howard Bauchner: You can just have a sense of what they were going to be or- >> Sherry Glied: So [inaudible]. >> Howard Bauchner: What were they last year? >> Sherry Glied: So roughly 3 trillionish in healthcare spending and roughly you know 18 trillion in GDP, something like that in round numbers, so lots of healthcare spending as we know and then GDP is about 70 times as big. >> Howard Bauchner: Right. >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible] >> Howard Bauchner: Now the point you make in the viewpoint, the point you make in the viewpoint that I try to emphasize with people repeatedly is that healthcare spending has gone up more than inflation the last couple years. >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: But the economy has expanded far greater than inflation so that's why the percent of spending that is represented by healthcare has been either stable or trickle down slightly. >> Sherry Glied: Exactly, so what's been happening is we've been coming off a period of reasonably robust GDP growth, not enormous but you know robust GDP growth. We haven't had a recession for quite a long time now and in the meantime healthcare spending has also been growing but not enormously either, not extremely quickly, just about at the same rate as the GDP, so the ratio remains the same even though healthcare spending has been growing pretty quickly, GDP has been growing pretty quickly as well. >> Howard Bauchner: Right so then you come to whatever April 27th, 2020 and now you get to have a crystal ball. What's going to happen to the numerator? What's going to happen to the denominator? Now we'll talk about implications. >> Sherry Glied: Sure, so first of all I want to start off by saying there is tremendous uncertainty about what happens to both of those pieces, much more uncertainty than we're ever used to coping with, honestly. I mean I think the actuaries do an amazing job every year even trying to forecast in normal circumstances and now we are in absolutely extraordinary circumstances. So just to give a sense of what are the dimensions of that uncertainty, one of course is how much longer is this pandemic going to be with us and how are we going to get out of it? So what's going to happen to that [inaudible]? Both of those separately matter, for example, we could get out of it because we invented some costly new drug. That would mean something for the numerator, right. We could get out of it because I don't know we socially isolate long enough to keep the virus from spreading all together. That may not have so much of impact on the numerator but it'll have a lot of impact on the denominator. It also matters how long the pandemic last or how long the lockdown last, both of those things, because a lot of what's been happening in the numerator is on the one hand you have this enormous demand for medical care for ICUs, for ventilators, for skilled nurses, so on. And at the same time, there's been an absolute shut off of elective surgery and of a lot of outpatient care. Dental offices have been particular hit hard. Now if the lockdowns end in the next month or so, I think a lot of that elective surgery will come back. People who needed to have their knees or hips replaced will get their knees and hips replaced two months later and that will go back into the numerator. Some things will not go back into the numerator if people need to have their teeth cleaned two months ago, they'll probably wait and get their teeth cleaned three or four months from now, so there's a lot of uncertainty about all of those pieces of what happens in the numerator, whether costs continue to go up or whether elective things keep getting put off. We looked at a range of estimates and we just take the number in the middle, which was a 10% increase in the numerator but honestly I can't say, I mean my confidence bounds around that are, they actually stand zero, right because the elective surgery reduction, if it lasts long enough could actually outpace the increase on the other side. On the other hand, [inaudible] in the denominator, we have equal amounts of uncertainty. We don't know how long the lockdowns are going to last and we don't know what's going to happen to the economy on the other side of this. We really have no good sense of that. I mean lots and lots of people are laid off. Is what's going to happen next that they will all just get their jobs back and we will be like a Rip Van Winkle story or Sleeping Beauty? Now we all went to sleep for three months and then we all go back to doing exactly the same thing, perhaps, not impossible or will it be something completely different. Will we enter a recession? Even if it is a Sleeping Beauty story and we come back, we will have lost two or three months of output, so it's not like everything will be fine but it could be much worse if we actually wind up in a recession on the other end of this. That was a very long-winded answer and that's not even the end of it. >> Howard Bauchner: No but Sherry I appreciate you talking about and mentioning the vast amount of uncertainty. I've gotten concerned that experts are speaking as so they're certainty about many of the different issues that I keep seeing played out in the press or in journals and it gives me pause because I think what I know more than anything else is that much more is unknown than known. As much as there's been scientific progress, there's still so much unknown and how it affects various aspects of care is certainly true. Is it your sense though that ultimately the economy's not going to fully recover by the end of the year, so is it- >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: Is it your sense that the numerator, the costs of providing healthcare will go up somewhat, balancing out the loss of elective surgery but all of the critical care that we're providing and that the denominator will shrink so that 17.8% or that 17.9% is likely to become 18.3 or 18.5%? >> Sherry Glied: Right. We actually look at numbers that could go up as high as 20% of the economy and if you think about it, if you think about it, in a way the way that the numerator and denominator happen go together in the sense that the longer the lockdown lasts, right, the more there's going to be, the more costly the epidemic is because there's more disease, right, and the more that the economy is going to shrink. And since elective surgery is only a piece of medicine but the economy is the whole thing and they're both sort of shrinking at the same time, I think it's a pretty good bet that that whole ratio is going to go up. >> Howard Bauchner: Now you have the three, you have major payers in the U.S. but the three major payers are private insurance, 170 million or so- >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible]. >> Howard Bauchner: people, Medicaid 70-75 million people and Medicare about 55 million people, you probably know the numbers that are attached to those better than I do. What's your sense of the effect on private insurance, Medicare and Medicaid? >> Sherry Glied: Okay so the biggest effects are likely to be felt in private insurance and the reason for that is kind of twofold. One is most people are in private insurance and the pandemic is hitting a lot of adults who are on private insurance. But the other reason is that private insurance pays so much more especially in hospitals than Medicare and Medicaid do and the baseline level of care for people that's a population that doesn't get sick so much so as a percentage of the expected here, COVID is exacting a much higher price. You know between the higher payments and the fact that the sort of the baseline level is relatively low, that's where the impact is the greatest. You think about the Medicare population, that's a population that is being hit very hard by COVID, people are getting very sick in that population. At the same time that's the population that already has a pretty high level of spending, the baseline, and that pays relatively low rates in hospitals. And so the net effect on Medicare is probably around 3 to 5% increase in spending whereas in private insurance some estimates out of California say it could be 35 or 40%. Now that's not taking into account the reduction in elective surgery, so there's a balancing act there but clearly the effect on private insurance is bigger simply because payments are bigger and the denominator is smaller. And then if you think about Medicaid, Medicaid is also a low payer in terms of per unit pricing, Medicaid pays low. Medicaid covers a lot of kids; they don't seem to be getting sick. They cover more younger people, that's also a population that hasn't been getting as sick, so [inaudible] balance the estimates for Medicaid are also on the order of like 5% increase in spending not [inaudible] 10 to 40% that you'd see on the private side. >> Howard Bauchner: Now one of the other great concerns and I mentioned this in a previous live stream, you know one of my medical school colleagues runs a cardiology practice outside of Baltimore and has some affiliation with the hospitals in Baltimore. There's 12 cardiologists, 55 employees, it's essentially shut down. >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible]. >> Howard Bauchner: And then one of associate editors is in Maine, his wife is an ophthalmologist; her practice is essentially shut down. >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: Now I don't know what Maryland or Maine are going to do. Maine has very little disease and they may begin to open up. What do you think is going to happen to the smaller practices? >> Sherry Glied: So this is one of those situations where we might think of the smaller practices just like all the small businesses that are out there that are in much the same shape. I mean this is a huge problem for outpatient care, especially ophthalmology, dentistry, those things that really there was no way to keep them going through the epidemic. People were not going to go get, go touch medical care even if they hadn't shut it down, this is something people would have been canceling their appointments, they just don't want to be in healthcare settings, We see this in the reduction in people going to hospitals even for very serious symptoms. But in many ways they're in exactly the same fix as places that had nothing to do with the healthcare system in the first place and have just been shut down, so the government is going to have to do significant bailouts I think across the board for all sorts of small businesses. They're already in the process of doing that and healthcare small businesses, if we want to think of them that way, as well. We often think of healthcare as kind of different from a business but ironically here they're being hit just in the same way as you know your local clothing store or book shop. People are not going in or they have to shut down and they can't meet payroll, so we're going to have to bail them out. There's a little tiny glimmer of positive news here, which is that interest rates are so incredibly low that it actually makes sense for the government to be bailing out everybody they can. They might as well borrow money because it's pretty much free. >> Howard Bauchner: Now the other big consumer or spender of dollars are hospitals. The estimate is somewhere around 35% percent of the total $3 trillion or 3.5. About a third of it goes to hospitals. Some reports are that some of the larger systems who have shut down elective procedures, not just surgery but largely surgery, are losing 30, 35, 40 million dollars a month. What is your sense about what will happen to hospitals? >> Sherry Glied: So again I think it really depends on how long that shutdown lasts. I think a lot of the elective surgery will come back. If it doesn't come back we've learned something really interesting. >> Howard Bauchner: [inaudible] >> Sherry Glied: People really you know [inaudible] in an ironic way- >> Howard Bauchner: [inaudible] a debate, right. >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible] this debate about waiting times. If it's actually true that if you tell people you can't have your knee replacement for two months, they discover that they don't need it anymore, boy is that going to make us revisit how we've been thinking about a lot of healthcare. But I don't think that's what's going to happen, I think what's going to happen is a lot of that is going to come back so what they face right now in many ways is a liquidity problem, t's not actually, no it's not what happens to them in the long run, it's how we get from here to there. And again, I think this is a facility that the federal government needs to be providing to help make sure that we can get those hospitals from here to there, yeah. >> Howard Bauchner: So we get to the fall, you know, I'm still guardedly optimistic. I think other than Boston, which continues to struggle with the amount of clinical care, I'm optimistic that New York, New York City's turned a corner. I've been worried about the numbers in Illinois and Michigan but in terms of open beds, number of ICU beds, ventilators, we have kept up. It's a tribute to clinicians around the country. >> Sherry Glied: Absolutely. >> Howard Bauchner: There's not a lot of disease in other states. We're beginning to see them open up. I think by the end of today or in a few days, it'll be 6, 7 or 8 states. I think there's tremendous concern that they're ill-prepared for if they get a surge of disease, that we're better at opening up than figuring out what to do and that's been debated on the front page of the newspaper every day for the last week or ten days. >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: Do you have a sense of what the fall will look like in terms of the dollars of healthcare or is it so dependent on the amount of disease, it's hard to predict? >> Sherry Glied: Well, I think, so let's separate out the elective stuff, so let me just put that to the slide because that's going to be a question of what is allowed to be done and how comfortable are people dealing with the healthcare system. I think right now people are just so nervous about it, it isn't even the government telling them not to go, no one wants to be in an emergency room or in a hospital if they can possibly avoid it and it's going to take a little while until what changes. In terms of the cost of providing care to patients with coronavirus, I think that that may actually decline well. [inaudible] we talked about this a little bit in the paper; the best of all possible worlds would be if somebody came up with a way to treat this disease effectively. Even if that cost them money, that would definitely be worth it because not only you know we actually pull that denominator up, right, we'd actually get the economy moving again and that would be great, would be wonderful if we had some effective care. Let's assume we don't because let's be pessimistic, right, so the question is what will be the cost of doing what we're doing now in New York if we have to do it in the fall in Illinois or Michigan or somewhere else and I think the answer is it will probably be less costly than it is right now. This enormous surge has led to the production of a lot of new equipment. We've now got a lot of that online. It ought to be a little bit easier to manage it if we have to a second time through or in other places. Again, there's just tremendous uncertainty. >> Howard Bauchner: Yeah again I appreciate you for saying that. Are there financial winners and losers or is everyone losing? >> Sherry Glied: Relative to most things, most people are losing. This is not, I don't think there are a whole lot of, Zoom, Zoom is doing really well, I imagine Skype. You know I think Amazon has probably done pretty well with all that mail ordering we're all doing. But this is a pretty all-in disaster. Most companies, most businesses, most enterprises, most healthcare require somebody to actually be physically coming into contact with someone else and that's not happening, so in some ways that's perhaps a good thing because it makes it makes the Sleeping Beauty scenario a little bit more plausible, it's not just a few companies or one sector of the economy that's shut down, it's actually the whole thing. We've all fallen under the evil fairy spell. >> Howard Bauchner: Now I may be off by a few $100 billion but it doesn't appear to be much of an issue in today's language but I think President Obama wanted or got $7 or 800 billion to help start the economy and I think we're at 2 trillion plus. >> Sherry Glied: Right, right. >> Howard Bauchner: I think those are the right numbers. >> Sherry Glied: Right, something like that, yeah. >> Howard Bauchner: Now- >> Sherry Glied: And I think it's because of this, it's because there isn't the sense that it's from one section of the economy that messed up and therefore we have to like so you know this compromise but here it's hard to attribute the blame to any sector. >> Howard Bauchner: What does this 2 or 2 1/2 trillion dollar check mean going forward? >> Sherry Glied: Well hopefully what it means is that we, hopefully what it does is it bridges us from the prior economy to the next economy. It doesn't actually transform anything, it doesn't really do anything, it just allows us to continue operating until we come out on the other side, so that we don't have this enormous destruction of value in effect. Like imagine, let me just turn it around, imagine if every store in your community went bust, they couldn't pay their rent, the landlords all went bust, it would be really hard to imagine reopening the economy on those terms. Who would reopen it? Nobody would be in possession of their store or your colleague; the cardiologist would have lost the practice. So this is really just bridge funding in effect to get us to the new economy and then hopefully we dig our way out. >> Howard Bauchner: Can we afford it or is there no choice? >> Sherry Glied: There's no choice. I mean there's no choice and that's why we see essentially the same path being followed by every country around the world. Even poor countries are trying to follow, to the extent they can, very similar paths. You have to, you have to, at this moment, there's really nothing to do but to lock down and you can't lock down unless you promise that there's a way out on the other end. >> Howard Bauchner: When you look to 2021, we're in 2020, when you look to 2021; do you have a sense of what will happen with private insurance rates, Medicaid rates, Medicare rates? So private insurance is shared you know between the employer and the employee, so I have Blue Cross Blue Shield- >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: of Illinois and the American Medical Association, I don't know what they put in, 75-80%, I put in 10 or 20% and that's true for many people, that ratio may vary. Medicare's largely entirely federal and then you and I've talked about Medicaid varies from 50/50 like in states like Massachusetts to I think it may be 20/80 in Mississippi- >> Howard Bauchner: I don't know but it varies substantially. So what do you see in 2020 being private, what's going to happen in 2021 with private insurance, Medicaid and Medicare? >> Sherry Glied: So the easiest one is Medicare where nothing's going to happen. >> Howard Bauchner: Okay. >> Sherry Glied: Medicare will continue, maybe they'll take away the 20% bump they just did for COVID payment, other than that, I think Medicare continues. Private employer-sponsored insurance, the big challenge there is that millions of people have lost their jobs and so they've lost their coverage altogether. Some of them will probably take up Cobra coverage, which allows them to keep their employer-sponsored insurance but that's a really expensive proposition, so I anticipate that a lot of them are just going to lose their coverage, which is a pretty scary thing in a world where a pandemic is loose. So I think the problem in private insurance is not going to be how much the people who have it pay for it but all the people who don't have it at all. At the same time there are, I mean the really negative expectations about how much this is all going to cost, Covered California says you could see 40% increases in private insurance premiums. That'd be pretty devastating if that's really what it is. I think a lot of people would drop their coverage at those rates, so I think that would be a second impact of it if in fact the rates go up that much. I think the current word is that it's going to be less than that but you know you could imagine a pretty big increases in private insurance premiums probably split between employers and employees. In Medicaid, well there are so many forces buffeting them at Medicaid right now. The politics of Medicaid in the federal government are so ugly to begin with. [inaudible] we have an administration that's not really interested in expanding Medicaid further and is trying to get states to cut [inaudible] we went into this worrying about things like work requirements, right, almost an absurdity in the current market, in the current economy. I don't even I can't even imagine what states could be thinking about enforcing work requirements in a world where the unemployment rate is now some crazy number. So you know there's not a lot of sympathy right now for Medicaid in the federal government and at the same time the States, because many of them have balanced budget requirements, are really going to be suffering trying to make their Medicaid match so I think this will be a challenging time because the place that, the only place the states really have to go is provider payment cuts. >> Howard Bauchner: Right and the struggle, the struggle around Medicaid is the states that may have more people on Medicaid are also going to have smaller tax revenues, so- >> Sherry Glied: It- >> Howard Bauchner: it will really be a struggle at the state level. Do you envision, so many governors, Democrat or Republican, whether they've expanded Medicaid or not, they're going to struggle with this saying we need help from the federal government? >> Sherry Glied: I think the governors will be asking for help from the federal government on so many fronts and this is definitely one of them. I mean the expansion population even now; the states are only on the hook for 10% of the cost of the expansion population- >> Howard Bauchner: Right. >> Sherry Glied: so that's not really the biggest problem, it's the cost of the program overall relative to a budget in which tax revenue just isn't coming in. >> Howard Bauchner: Right, well as a part of you know we've published so much on Medicaid, part of it is it's 3 or 4 different programs and they're all put together under just Medicaid. You know you and I already talked about it, it's children, it's pregnant women, it's disabled and so we put it all under Medicaid and some people have argued we should begin to separate it out. I'm not sure we'll ever do that. For the people, for the 25 million, I saw the graph somewhere of the newly unemployed; will they end up on Medicaid in most states? >> Sherry Glied: So it will depend on whether their state has expanded Medicaid or not and what their incomes wind up at after they they've experienced unemployment, so in the states that have expanded Medicaid, if they are a low-income people and don't have a lot of money coming in and not great prospects, they could very well wind up on Medicaid. If they're doing a little bit better than that, they may wind up in the insurance marketplaces. You are eligible to enroll in the Obamacare marketplaces even if you know whether your state has expanded Medicaid or not, if your income is over 100% of the federal poverty level, you are eligible for subsidized coverage and there is a special employment, special enrollment opportunity for you if you lose your job and you lose your coverage. So people should be able to access those exchanges. Of course [inaudible] times the Supreme Court is going to see if they're going to hear the case overturning [inaudible] Affordable Care Act and taking that safety net away. >> Howard Bauchner: Yeah and I was struck by your comment about work requirements which now have almost become secondary and probably not important given the unemployment rates. Wondering if you know somehow the Supreme Court will be influenced by other things which I know they claim they're not. The last question I feel like I have to ask it because it seems like it's not part of your viewpoint but it went under the radar and I was amazed. I was talking to someone last week who said "Do you know that the presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden announced he wants to lower Medicare to 60?" And I was trying to say "Did I just like miss a whole week?" You know was it that Rip Van Winkle, I woke up and go "Oh whoa, I missed the whole week, he made a big healthcare announcement." and in fact he has made that announcement- >> Sherry Glied: Right. >> Howard Bauchner: that he'd like to lower it from 65 to 60. People have said for years that that may be the beginning of the easiest approach to insure more individuals at critical times in their life- >> Sherry Glied: [inaudible] >> Howard Bauchner: when they need health coverage. And the other big change is Medicare today is not what Medicare was 10 years ago. Thirty-five or forty percent of the people in Medicare are part of a private insurance network. >> Howard Bauchner: What is your sense of this plan? I don't know if you've had a chance to read the details or if they exist? >> Sherry Glied: So I think it's an interesting direction to go to sort of appeal to the idea of trying to expand the Medicare program in a way that is relatively straightforward. The way it would probably work is it would treat people at 60 in a way that we now treat them at 65, which is to say that if you're employed, if you continue to work for the American Medical Association, they are still responsible for your health insurance. Medicare becomes secondary to your current health insurance, so for employed people this doesn't lead to a lot of costs. For people who decide to retire early or didn't have coverage, this is an easy way for them to get into coverage. You're not overturning the existing Medicare program in any [inaudible] this is not a radical reshaping of Medicare. It's a relatively modest move forward in terms of structure but it could make a really big difference to a lot of people who are 60 to 65, so- And you know and you maintain Medicare Advantage, you maintain those options for people, so it probably gets a little bit less of [inaudible] political heat than the going a full single payer route. I haven't read it, I haven't studied it very carefully but it's an interesting and [inaudible] kind of proposal you could imagine happening. A lot of things that people talk about you can't really imagine happening, this is one, it's plausible. >> Howard Bauchner: And can Medicare afford it? >> Sherry Glied: Well, we can raise taxes for Medicare [inaudible] afford it, I mean. You know whether Medicare can afford it or not, it is a decision we all collectively make, it's not a kind of-- The current Medicare program would need more money to be able to do it, we would have to find that money somewhere. >> Howard Bauchner: Okay. I've been talking to Sherry Glied, who's at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service where she's actually the Dean. And I just wanted to mention, Phil Fontanarosa and I read every viewpoint that is submitted. Usually it's about 1500 a year, this year we're tracking along at somewhere around 3,000 and when Sherry's came in and we read it, I sent it to Phil and I said "It's [inaudible]." and we have a term for writers who are gifted and we call them [inaudible]. Don is my guest next Monday because he's trying to talk about what the new normalcy is in the next part of the series and I sent his to Phil and I said "I can't really call it [inaudible]." But Sherry's viewpoint, the clarity of your writing and your thought with Helen is really wonderful and I just really want to thank you for that. >> Sherry Glied: Well, thank you for inviting us to write it, thank you. >> Howard Bauchner: So this has been Howard Bauchner, editor-in-chief of JAMA. This has been "Conversations with Dr. Bauchner" and we've been focused on our COVID-19 Beyond Tomorrow series and we've been discussing the viewpoint entitled "The Potential Effects of Coronavirus on National Health Expenditures". Thanks Sherri and please I hope you and your family stay healthy. >> Sherry Glied: You, too. Take care. >> Howard Bauchner: Bye-bye. >> Sherry Glied: Bye-bye.