Hello and welcome to this live stream podcast. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief of JAMA, and I'm here with a remarkable individual, and I'll say more about that towards the end, Tony Fouchy, who's director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Tony, thanks for spending some time this morning with me. Good to be with you, Ally. Numerous requests uh for me to continue our conversations. Obviously um you know your first report seminal January 23rd 2020 in Jamaat titled Corona virus infections more than just a common cold. Uh 43 days have passed since then and um the world's a changed place. But before we get into some of the details Tony how many presidents have you now advised? This is my sixth. I started off advising uh President Ronald Reagan in the very early years of the HIV AIDS uh epidemic. So Tony, before we get into some of the seinal questions that people have asked me to focus on, can you just uh clarify the language so that people really understand what we're talking about? Uh Kovid9 and then SARS Kovv2. Can you distinguish between those two? Yeah, it it's very similar, Howard, to when we had that issue years ago with HIV AIDS. HIV is the virus. AIDS is the clinical syndrome that the HIV virus can cause. SARS Kovv2 or novel corona virus is the virus and coid9 is the disease. It stands for Corona virus disease 2019. One is the disease, the other is the virus. Thank you. Um so a lot about testing. I'm really not that interested in going over what what we could have done. Uh that's for the future to talk about. But I think there's been uncertainty this week about where we are on the ability to test in the US. And then equally as important, what will be the quality of those tests in terms of sensitivity and specificity? So where are we with the capacity to test in the US? Well, you know, just to reflect back for a moment, Howard, there were ser clearly some missteps. Generally, when you have a new infection and a new disease like this, the CDC would jump on it to make a test quickly uh rev it up and give it to the public health departments in the various state and local authorities. That in fact had a misstep because there were some issues technically with the test which slowed things down. When it became clear that there would be a need for much more widespread testing, they revved it up themselves. But importantly, what happened was that they embraced and utilized private sector companies, the ones that do the standard diagnostic tests for other things that we as physicians use. And it became part of the routine. We're not there yet, but soon, you know, and that's not something I control, Howard, so I hate to give listeners any guarantee of anything, but the goal over the next week to two is to rev it up that you could have at least a million plus tests available for deployment within the next week to two. Hopefully, that eventuates into a reality and not just a goal. Then after that, when you get online some of the really good companies that know what they're doing when they're making uh a diagnostic test, then I think the flow of those tests will be really smooth. But unfortunately, today we're not there yet. Sensitivity, specificity of tests like this, Tony, you know, they're good. Uh Howard, there there are standard PCR tests, you know, and and if you do a PCR test, right, it's it's highly specific. Uh obviously, there are confirmation tests that you'd want to do if you just get one because there can be contaminations with PCR, but they're very sensitive down to, you know, a few copies. Uh very much like some of the tests that we have for HIV where you can get down to really a few copies. So from a clinical standpoint, if you have a test and it's positive or negative, you can make a clinical decision based upon that test. [clears throat] If it's positive, Howard, you absolutely can make a decision. If it's negative, you may be early on in the infection and the viral load may be so low you don't get it, but that's more of a uh of a uh concentration issue uh uh than it is a problem with the test. So, a negative I'd feel comfortable with, a positive I'd be positive about. Okay. So, Tony, let's go to one of the other uh really complicated issues that's been debated over the last couple days in part because of the language that people are using and what the WH announced, which is the case fatality rate. Uh knowing we were going to talk this morning, I looked it up this morning with respect to Korea because I I think they've done widespread testing. They have a reasonably healthy health care system. Um my understanding from this morning's report from their CDC like is uh 6,088 cases, 35 deaths. Do you want to say anything uh about the case fatality rate? Yeah, well the case fatality rates u Howard come from large studies not only from Korea but an even larger one from China and some information now from Italy. So the I'm glad you brought it up because there's some understandable confusion. If you go on to one of the many sites that track global cases uh such as coronavirus tracker and you click you see two numbers. The number of cases that have come to the attention of health care providers as of this morning that's like 98,000. Then on the other side they have the number of documented deaths. That's now about 37 3,800. When you do that pure simple math, the deaths of the numerator, the cases of the denominator, that's where you get the report from WH that it's somewhere between two and 3% case fatality rate. However, when people do modeling and say, "Let's" and you very well know Howard and our and our listeners know that a model is only as good as the assumptions that you put into the model. So, you have various assumptions that there are these many asymptomatic cases that never get counted. There are these many asymptomatic cases that never get counted, etc. And when you do that, you get a range of case fatality rates that's always less than the actual numerical one because it always factors in relative proportions of asymptomatic ones that you don't count. So when you hear it's two to three and then you hear well other people model it and it's somewhere between you know 0.8 eight and 1.5 or one or what have you. Those are all assumptions based on varying degrees of what you would consider asymptomatic infection. That's where the confusion comes in. Yeah. I I uh there's so much apprehension uh in the United States and around the world around these numbers that people uh keep hearing. So, we'll we'll return to that in in a bit of time. But as I said, I I I look carefully at the larger series. I I'm I'm not quite sure that the China uh numbers are representative for the United States, but I think only time will tell. Well, that's true. you know, u there was an article or an interview with one of the people, Bruce Elad, who went to China, um as part of the WH group, as did my own deputy went, uh Cliff Lane, as well as someone from the CDC, and they were looking at what's going on there. And the Chinese don't feel that there are that many people who are so completely asymptomatic they never get sick and they don't get counted. So they kind of think that that case fatality rate is closer to the one that's real. Whereas others when you get out of China and you see a lot more cases that are mild or maybe asymptomatic, you always get a lower level than what you're seeing from the global report. Yeah. And it's been interesting in the China data because we had the report from the CDC uh China that the case fatality rate within Wuhan versus outside of Wuhan are very very different. Absolutely. Absolutely. So Tony uh three areas to focus on um advances in science in the last six weeks then clinical issues and public health issues. So um any major advances in the science of what we know about uh the organism? Well, with regard to the science, you know, they've done a lot of um elegant basic work, you know, doing the crystalallographic and confirmational structure of the spike protein, which I think is going to have downstream advantages of knowing how you can target blocking the interaction between the spike protein and the A2 uh receptor particularly on the pulmonary cells in in the lung. So that's you know the typical basic science stuff but the stuff that is of immediate interest and applicability is the issue with vaccines. You know we have a bunch of vaccine candidates that are in various stages of development. uh the one that we're working with mostly and that no way may it turn out to be the best one, but it's the one that seems to be furthest along is one that is an mRNA candidate that we're working on that we hope to I had mentioned to you and to others that we would had hoped that it would take from the time of the availability of the sequence to the time we got it into a phase one trial would be about two to three months. Well, I think it's going to be less than that. We're probably, you know, four weeks or so away from going into a phase one trial. That always causes confusion because I think most of our listeners know this, but the general public should not know it and certainly do not that getting a vaccine into a phase one trial doesn't mean you have a vaccine. It's going to take several months to see that it's safe and then you go into a phase two as you know and you'll do that in an area where there's active infection. You'll ratchet up the numbers to anywhere from hundreds to thousands. That should take another six to eight months. So you're really talking about a year to a year and a half before you even know something works. If you want to do what has been done in the past, which I don't think is a good idea, is to just get what you think is a vaccine and give it to people, you know, that's dangerous. You know, in medicine, as we all know, the first mandate is to do no harm. So, you got to make sure you have something that's safe and that works. So, we're not going to have a vaccine in the immediate future, which tells us we have to rely on the public health measures. Therapy is a different story. So there are a couple of randomized control trials, a couple in China and one that we're doing here in the United States that we're going to do in some of our evaluation units because we have continuing number of increasing people who are infected to test the drug such as Remesae using a standard of care versus standard of care plus remesae. Hopefully in the next few months if we have enough ac crew certainly the Chinese are well into a few hundred in their clinical trial that when the DSMP looks at the data we'll know whether it works or not. If it does that would be wonderful. Then we could start distributing the drug. If it doesn't then we'll obviously have to go to other avenues. Tony returning to the vaccine just um and then we can put that story to rest. Um, I think people should also recognize just because we have a vaccine and we test it through phase 1, phase two, it doesn't mean it's going to be effective. Oh, absolutely not. I mean, that's the point. That's the point I made. I said it would take a year to a year and a half to find out if it even works. Right. So Tony in the clinical trials um that are on ongoing in a number of the case that JH has received and published in other journals uh early on many of the uh clinicians in China appropriately treated patients with antibacterials, antivirals, steroids are the clinical trials that are being conducted are they cleaner? So will there be a a clear intervention group and a clear control group? You know, Howard, you bring up something that I have to say personally sometimes is painful for me because, you know, been having been through so many of these outbreaks, you can understand the desire of people when you have an intervention that either in vitro or in an animal model shows some degree of optimism. you immediately when you have a desperate public health situation, you want to just give it to people. I understand that. The only trouble with that is that you almost never find out if it really works. And at the end of the day, if you've given a lot of stuff to people and then you don't know what works, well, you it may have satisfied your humanitarian instincts of giving something to someone when there's no proven therapy. But you've in some respects done a disservice. And that's the reason why we lean heavily towards and recommend strongly that when you have these interventions, you do it in a ethically sound randomized control trial to find out quickly and definitively whether something works or not. You know, we received a number of case series that uh were suggesting that this treatment or that treatment worked and we we had a number of people evaluate them and and their conclusion was just because they had done so many different treatments, it was not possible to conclude what had worked and not worked. And that that's meant not to criticize the clinicians who cared for these patients, but it's more then how do we present that information to the clinical community and the public so that there's that there's um faith that what what we're presenting is accurate. Yeah, it's [clears throat] a good point, Howard. And just one other thing that again I'm sure our listeners are very well aware of. When you're dealing with a disease that has a certain percentage of spontaneous recovery, then just giving somebody something and saying they got better in many respects is meaningless if it's not controlled. If you have a disease that's 100% fatal, you don't need a control. If they live, that's it. But a disease in which people spontaneously recover that's a different story. Tony anything new uh on the various groups high-risisk groups that people are always interested in. So you know the elderly was quickly defined. Uh then children were quickly defined at not being high risk. Then obviously people are always concerned about women who are pregnant. So can you say anything about any of the new epidemiology about the various uh risk groups that are uh people are always conscious about? Yeah, we know less about the pregnancy group than we do in influenza uh because we obviously haven't studied it enough. But the thing that's very clear and there's some recent unpublished stuff from uh Korea and Italy in which if you look at the mortality according to age and then according to underlying comorbidities it's so clear Howard that the overwhelming weight of serious disease and mortality is in those individuals who are elderly as well as comorbidity, heart disease, chronic lung disease, diabetes, obesity, respiratory difficulties with asthma, etc. Every once in a while when you read the reports carefully, some individual case reports, some as part of series, you will see that there will be outliers. There will be, as we've seen in influenza, an occasional person who's young and healthy who winds up getting COVID 19, seriously ill, and dies. But if you look at the weight of the data, the risk group is very, very clear. The ones that I just mentioned, you mentioned it, and it's really interesting. I I still don't totally understand it is the lack of detectable infections in children as well as the lack of any degree of serious disease. I mean, you know, in in the report that uh came out, one of the several reports, there wasn't even a single identified case of a person less than 15 years old, which seems almost unbelievable. they have to be getting infected. Howard, the why they're not developing clinical disease uh is really interesting. I I think this is not I think this is something we really need to study because it certainly will tell us something about what a correlative immune protection is. Um Tony, I I I'd like to focus a bit on the United States now. So what's crossed my desk in the last few days quite quite frequently now is this notion of mitigation strategies versus quarantine. Obviously the events in uh the state of Washington and the nursing home have focused now on quarantine, but could you could you tell our listeners the difference between what a quarantine strategy would be versus what a mitigation strategy would be? Okay. Well, let [clears throat] let me add um another word in there that might might help us in the discussion. Howard, it's containment versus mitigation. Okay. So, I mean containment can be containment from without to within as well as containment within. So, you do travel restrictions from China. That was very very helpful in blunting the degree to which we seated people from Wuhan and other parts of China coming into the country and giving us cases. We have some of them a few but relatively few blocking that containment. Doing contact tracing if you have someone and quickly get their contacts that's part of containment. When you have mitigation, and I'll get to quarantine in a moment, mitigation says we're not trying to prevent it to come from without in, nor are we trying predominantly to contain it from within. We're trying to mitigate and say we have a problem. How do we mitigate it? How do we prevent further infection without necessarily doing the contact tracing? And that's where you get social distancing. So mitigation can be almost synonymous with social distancing, namely staying away from crowded places, closing schools, closing and interfering with events in which you could put people in a very very large space that are crowded. teleawworking. That's the kind of mitigation to some degree that's going on in the Seattle area. Quarantine is an oldfashioned word that means you take someone who is suspected of being infected and you keep them in a closed space until a certain period of time elapses beyond the incubation period. That's different than isolating someone who is infected to prevent them from infecting someone else. So, I mean, I know that when you throw all those terms out to people, they sort of get a headache. You know, there's containment, mitigation, quarantine, isolation, but they do have subtle differences among them. Tony, do you think um so you know we we've had some uh medical meetings canled uh others are likely to be cancelled. Many the academic medical uh uh centers as well as hospitals are now restricting travel of of their faculty. I think in part because they don't want them traveling to certain areas and then bringing back uh disease to their institution. So I'm beginning to see uh some commitment to mitigation. Now, I don't think there's been massive school closings like in Japan. Do do you see mitigation as a part of what will roll out next week in the US or the following week? Do you see it as something that is likely to become important or more important than it is now? What I'm seeing and what I think we'll see, Howard, is not an official countrywide mitigation. I think the public will will essentially make their own decision. People will be doing things like decreasing travel uh by doing the kinds of things that you mentioned, cancelling conferences, um encouraging people to not work in the workplace if they could do it at home. They're going to be doing that anyway. So, I don't think it's going to be like a public health mandate, but people are going to start hunkering down a bit because you see them doing it spontaneously anyway. Tony, um, you know, the the data about the elderly with comorbid conditions is clear. It's emerged from virtually every country. Obviously, the events in the state of Washington and nursing home are are uh concerning. How do we protect the elderly? Tony. Well, you know, Howard, I that is a great question. Um, to me right now, you know, we have this area in Seattle where they are doing official type of mitigation. You know, I spoke to Governor Eninsley who is just the other night, the other day before he made his decision to uh essentially initiate a mitigation strategy, which I thought was a really good idea. When you're talking about the elderly, even if you are not in an area where there is ongoing community spread and you would do mitigation for everyone, whether they're elderly, imunompromised or young, I think right now common sense should prevail that if you have a person who's elderly and many elderly people as the natural course of life are going to have some sort of underlying condition, sometimes a compelling one, sometimes a minor one. The way we protect them, I believe, in general, is to don't take any unnecessary risks with them. So, if you have someone who's in their 70s, 80s, or beyond, and and even if they're relatively healthy, do you really want to get on a plane and fly to wherever unless you have to? I mean, I I think you have to treat the elderly and those with underlying conditions to try and protect them because they're vulnerable, and that's what we need to do. When you're talking about nursing homes, yeah, that is a very important issue. Sema Verma, who is the head of CMS, I've been going on, you know, a lot of the meetings. She's now part of the task force, the president's task force that I'm on is really making it a very important uh goal to get the nursing homes up to speed with regard to infection control capabilities because they are so vulnerable. I mean, you saw what happened in the Seattle area. That's not the last time that's going to happen. Tony, just a few more questions. I'm conscious of uh your your remarkable work schedule. Um the Southern Hemisphere is beginning to see cases. Their resources are often substantially less in other parts of the world. It's an area in which has been very active obviously around Ebola. Any any sense of what may happen in Central Latin America, Africa? You know, it's with trepidation that I that I think about that. um Howard because when you don't have the capability of doing the kind of public health measures and you have so many other confounding diseases going on, uh it's going to be a challenge, you know, and that's what the WH keeps talking about on the weekly and sometimes twice a week conference calls that we have with them where we bring in people from all over the world on a WHOled conference call that is the real topic of discussion of how we can get some resources and it's going to be playing catchup as you know you're not going to change the health care system in a country over a period of a couple of months that's something that you know should have been done years and years ago but to the best of our ability help them out with resources to be able to respond. Uh Tony, in our first podcast, you said something that I've remembered uh since, which is, you know, we were we compared early coronavirus information to flu. It's been a difficult flu season in the US. You went through um some of the past flu epidemics that we've had in the US. And and you made a comment um that flu tends to wayne when we move into the the spring and summer months. And there's there's varying reasons why. It's very interesting. It doesn't happen all the time but it happens most years. Um do you think there's enough science of corona virus known now uh with the row or other information to know if that will be the case with corona virus or is it one of the great unknowns? Uh unfortunately Howard it's one of the great unknowns. I I certainly hope that happens. The precedent with flu is every year it happens, it goes down and almost goes under the radar screen when you get to the end of March, the beginning of April, and then into the late spring, early summer. You see that with other respiratoryborn viruses, but one of the things we didn't see too much of that with SARS back in the day in 2002, 2003. I am hoping that as we get into the warmer weather, we will see a decline that would give us a chance to get our preparedness much more up to speed. But it's a big unknown, Howard. We don't know what's going to happen as we get into the warmer weather. Tony. So, u for reasons that are uncertain to me, um there's there's this pale on the country, a sense of anxiety, which I can only recall as a young child with the polio uh uh outbreaks in the 50s. Certainly around HIV AIDS within the gay community I I think the same trepidation massive trepidation occurred but but we've been through u SARS and commerve uh Ebola but I sense that it's different in in the country this time do you have a sense of that and if so why do you think that's the case you know I'm not sure I it's amazing how much attention is being count is is being u concent concentrated on this. You know, I think it is um much more of what we talk about how the unknown is so scary and it's still the unknown. Um and and and and the unknown is punctuated by facts that tend to confuse people. Like you see pictures of so many people in hospitals on respirators and then you get data that says well you know 80% of the people don't even need medical intervention they tend to spontaneously recover. Um it it confuses people and confusion leads to more anxiety I think. You know that's just one of the issues that I think make it different. Howard. Um, you know, I was going through the numbers. Uh, the US health care system has just remarkable capacity. Uh, I know people have been very concerned about the various numbers that have been projected, how many ICU beds we have. Will we really be able to contain uh the spread of the virus? What's your sense of uh the capacity within the US to to care for what is likely to be a increasing number of people who are infected? Well, I think the capacity if we don't have a massive outbreak that would require a lot of intensive care that we'd be able to meet that if, and it's a big if, don't want to scare anybody, but if we get into a situation where we do have a significant distribution throughout the country of people requiring specific type of intensive care, that could be a problem. I mean, a a real bad outbreak will stress any health care system, no matter how good it is. The hope is a that it doesn't occur naturally and b that we can do some intervention that'll prevent it from getting that bad. Uh, one last question and then a a closing comment for me, Tony. Um, you've been at this for six weeks. What's your daily schedule like? Well, it's untenable, Howard. [laughter] Uh, it's it just is. I mean, I um I I did my medical training back in the day when you were an intern. You were on every other night and every other weekend and you rarely got any sleep. I think this may be worse than that. It's very very intense. Uh the spotlight is always on you. uh you you have to read everything, analyze it, come up with judgment calls, and there's not enough hours in the day to be able to do it. So, you just suck it up and do it, but it wears you down. Uh I was talking to someone last night, my nephew actually, Josh Bachner, and he's studying the history of of science, and he said, "Um, what's Tony really like?" And I said, "He's exactly what you see when you see him in person or see him on the screen. He's extraordinarily wise. He has decades of experience. He's calming. Uh, and he has a remarkable ability to present information so that people can understand it and and don't feel like he's being pedantic in any way." And you know, I love your Brooklyn accent that comes out. periodically Tony um on behalf of a grateful clinical community uh patients in the United States and around the world and many many other people um thank you for your just your remarkable service and once again taking time to talk with me today. Thanks Tony. Happy to do it Howard. It is always good to be with you. Be well, be safe and try to get some sleep. Thanks a lot. See you Tony. Bye bye.