Hello and welcome to this author interview. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief, and I have the remarkable privilege of being joined by Maritzio Jacone from Italy. Maritzio is a colleague who I've known for the last 5 to 10 years via Derek Angus. Uh Mauricio, thank you for joining me today. Hi, Howard. Thank you for hosting me. So before we start just a couple comments and then uh we'll start the probably 30 35 minute interview. Uh firstly from the Jamba family and editorial and publishing and I think all of our colleagues in the United States uh we know it's been an enormously difficult time in Italy particularly in your area and we wish you the best and I I I thank you for taking some time out today. You're in our prayers. Thank you. We think it's important to share what we see here. So, Mauricio, you you've written a viewpoint that's being released simultaneously with this uh live stream. It's entitled critical care utilization for the CO VID19 outbreak in Lombardi, Italy. Early experience and forecast during an emergency response. Um, we're going to walk through the viewpoint and some other things you've sent me. But before we start, I I know you want to recognize your two co-authors and the entire team of people providing care. So could you just talk a bit about them? Yes. So I've written with this view point with Jako Graaselli and Antonio Pazenti that are there on the authorship but you know this is an effort really that is being made available uh by the old ICU network in Lombard. And I think I will tell this probably later, but I think the only way that we've been able to act so fast is thanks to the fact that Alberto Zangrilo from San Rafael Hospital in Milan and Antonio Pzante from Poly Clinical Major in Milan. They set up a network of intensive care that is always used to support patients with respiratory failure of cardiac failure with VV ECMO, VACO. And the starting point was crucial for us to be able to manage the very very first surge. So that was really the beginning of the framework of our network and I think with the without these individuals we would have been in a even in a much worse position that what we were on day one. So just to help orient people where is Lombardi in Italy and why is it so unique? Well Lombardi in Italy is in the north of Italy. Um it is probably the one of the richest regions in Europe, not just in Italy. It is where the majority of the wealth and the global domestic product of the country is made. So actually we are even in a unique situation here because we are facing an outbreak in what probably is the uh the part of Italy that has the highest concentration of resources and healthcare resources compared also to other parts of the country. and I would say probably also to some other parts of Europe. What are the largest cities in in this area? So largest cities in this area for of course Milan and then other big hubs are cities like Burgamo but we it's it's a very dense area. I don't know if you've ever seen those maps that come from satellites where they looked at how Europe looks at night and you can see that the density of light that we have in all Lombardi and going to Ailia Romania down to the uh east coast of Italy. It really makes you understand how dense the population is in this area and I suspect that probably was one of the reason why we've seen these some of the outbreaks coming up here so fast. So, you were kind enough to send me a infographic this morning and I'll just um tell people what's on it. I don't know if we can show it. Uh as of yesterday, uh close to 14,000 cases, 13,882. 116 health workers have uh contracted COVID19 and there's been 803 associated deaths, which is a case fatality rate of 5.8%. We will return to that because I don't want to leave people with that figure. I think people really need to recognize the data from Italy are enormously consistent with the data from Korea and China in the sense that people under 60 are at incredibly low risk for fatality. So we'll return to that. So uh the story starts February 20th. That's the first sentence in the viewpoint. on February 20th, 2020, a 38-year-old patient admitted to the intensive care unit um in Lombardia tested positive. So what happens after February 20th? Well, you have to imagine that up to that moment, Italy was monitoring as every other country in the world very carefully what was happening in China and you know every possible case that was identified through index cases was quarantined. you know people were followed so that we were really trying to contain completely uh the disease. So that day is a very specific day because one of the doctors in one of the hospitals that is being majorly affected one anist actually I realized that there was something different from a young patient that was not responding to a typical pneumonia and this young patient didn't really have the normal risk factors for which we would have screened for uh you know for the new uh virus. So anyway we they decided to to send the swab for it and the swap was positive. Now you can imagine that now we are in a situation in which a secondary transmission of a young patient that is so sick that is in intensive care is patient number one and we have to try and find the trace back whoever was in contact with this patient. So that was really the beginning of us getting a little bit nervous here in Lombardi and in Italy. And you may remember then during the next uh day some other cases were coming up because finally we were testing more and more patients. So the the risk factor had changed. It was not anymore travel from China in the previous 14 days or being in contact with a confine case. It was actually being in contact with our patient in in that area. And and I do remember an anecdote of mine that I was u um actually in Switzerland at the time giving a talk for uh a symposium and just by seeing the number of cases that were ramping up and being in contact with some colleagues there. decided very quickly to come back uh to my hospital because we realized that we were having a secondary cluster, a secondary transmission cluster and that is a key point to realize that this is very different from any other group of patient that was discovered in Europe up to the time. How many cases began to accumulate on February 21, 22, 23 and then um I know uh you have really reorganized your intensive care unit services. So how many cases were accumulating and then how did you begin to think through the organization of your critical care services? So difficult to give you the the perfect number but we were quickly seeing 5 10 14 and the number was going up uh kind of an exponential way from the very first day. So very fast and very fast increase. So uh the same uh on on the Saturday the network was called to get together. So the network of the hospitals that I was saying before organized by Antonio Pzanti and Alberto Zangrilo we got together and we say we have a problem here we have to act very quickly uh because it's very likely if the numbers that we see are coming up and the cluster has to be contained at least try to be contained it's very likely that we see uh more patients coming through. So it was very clear from us and we we were not alone. We had to work with health authorities and with everyone else. But we worked from the very beginning on two principles. Uh give intensive care to every patient that needs intensive care and at the same time guarantee containment. Now containment you can do it in the community with a series of rules and uh maneuvers that can be done by health authorities and government and so on. But what you do in healthcare is try to find a way that the infection will not spread also to other patients. So we decided very fast uh that our only option at the moment was to ask uh hospitals the first five hubs to basically create some isolation units that could manage the manage the initial surge. And at the same time, we realized that if really we were in the middle of an outbreak, we should have planned immediately an increase in capacity to be able to give intensive care to whoever needed intensive care and at the same time work on containment. So um how many hospitals existed in the Lombardi area? How many uh critical care beds were there? And then a week later, how many critical care beds were there? So the total number of hospitals is not completely clear to me but what I can tell you is that in this moment hospitals that have an intensive care uh facility in which they have been able to create isolation units is more than 50 I think we're talking about 55 to 60 hospitals. Now you have to imagine day one when the crisis start uh the total capacity precrisis of the open ICU beds in the region was about 720 beds. Okay, so we're talking about probably eight beds every 100,000 population and these are beds that are usually reserved for the very sick patients. Um so in order to be able to manage the surge we realized also that if the numbers were going to come up we should have freed capacity as much as possible. So what we did was also with health authorities deciding to cancel all non-urgent elective surgery free some capacity and work very fast to realize how our contingency plan was able to bring more capacity to the system. So a week later, how many additional beds were you able to add to the area? So within a week, we were able to add another 200 beds uh to the area and uh and that led us on the 7th of March to have roughly 360 patient treated in an intensive care bed at the moment. Uh I can give you an official news from this morning just from the coordinating network that we've treated more than 1,000 intensive care patients so far since the beginning of the outbreak and we are managing between 750 and 800 beds uh of intensive care patient occupied by COVID 19 positive patient in the moment while I speak. Now I know this there there may be some var variability in this question but the China data suggested that people could come into the hospital and be hospitaliz hospitalized and then deteriorate after 3 four or 5 days is that what you're seeing or are people coming in through the emergency department and are they sick immediately? Well, we are seeing a very uh high variety of cases and indeed you know you don't have to expect to increase your surge capacity just for intensive care. You really need to manage the outbreak. I can give you the example of what has been done in many hospital was to create completely different pathways for respiratory uh symptoms patients so that you could actually uh find a way to detect if the patient is really is a coid9 uh positive patient or not. And you will see a lot of these patients coming through if you have a cluster. So uh the majority of patients they may come maybe with some mild disease and in Italy we have a code in our emergency department that goes from green, yellow and red depending on the severity. The majority of patient will still be green and now we are even able to send them home and if they don't require hospitalization but we know that they are positive we will find a way for them to selfisolate but uh they don't come to the hospital for the ones that are kind of yellow and they require hospitalization well we see uh that this patient they may require significant support and indeed when I talk about intensive care beds now we are basically talking almost entire irely about patient that are invasively mechanically ventilated. So we're talking about a very sick group of patients. On top of that to increase our capacity to provide organ support uh we have increased also the ability to provide level two organ support like monitoring and non-invasive ventilation outside of a normal ICU area. There's a quite a few clinical questions coming in and I'll ask the one that I'm asked every time uh when I do interviews. Can you say anything about children? I I have already mentioned that um you were you were kind enough to send me the uh data from yesterday and just to reassure people um case fatality rate for individuals uh from 40 to 49 is.1% which is very similar to flu 50 to 59 is 6%. Those numbers look very much like Korea and then the break point begins to be 60 70 and 80 and we'll come back to that. Um so that really uh uh is around comorbid conditions in the people who are older but but have there been sick children and how have they done? So two two answers about agents you're asking me both about children but also younger patients. So I'll answer first about children. Uh in this dramatic situation uh one good thing at least that we see is that kids seems to be infected and we have some reports of infected kids but it's uh almost zero uh you know the percentage of very sick kids that we see. So we've not seen a significant surge of seriously ill kids. We don't know how that is happening. is very consistent with the data that we were seeing from China and kind of way in this very difficult situation is kind of reassuring. We don't know what's protecting them from getting very sick but the good thing is that when kids get infected they don't seem to uh become seriously ill. On the other hand, while the percentage of uh people um you know that are younger uh seems to be having a better outcome, remember that the mean age of our population in intensive care seems to be around 65 years of age. So that means that half of the population is uh less than that and I would consider that still relatively young and uh and so even we see in our units now considering the large number of cases uh we still see some young patients coming through. The majority is people that are older but we see some young cases coming through. Are the younger patients you know 30 40 doing fine doing well after they get the treatment that they need? uh very early to tell you that uh but uh that's what we are certainly seeing at the moment and the reports that I can give you from my colleagues um you know even patient number one had to go through quite a prolonged ventilation but we know I have some reports from uh from some news that actually is doing better and uh that's what I'm seeing also in my unit so from that point of view we don't see something very different from other types of pneumonia the older The more frail, the more comorbid you are, the more likely is that it's going to be very difficult for you to come out well from intensive care. The younger you are with less coorbidities, well, if you come to intensive care, you have a higher physiological reserve and the chances of coming out are probably higher. Yeah, similar to data before and similar with other respiratory diseases. Have you created separate ICUs for those that are Kovid positive versus those that are KID not positive or need other types of treatment? Have you separated those types of ICUs? We've tried to do that as much as possible that for uh for two reasons because we wanted to protect other patients from you know not being exposed to these patients but also to maximize the way we're using our workforce. Remember that our mission even if it's not written there but is to provide an intensive care bed to whoever needs an intensive care bed. And we're not making any distinction between a COVID positive patient or a patient that is having a trauma, a patient that is in a car accident, a patient that is having an MI and require an emergency intervention. So during this time we were very focused in guaranteeing all the emergency that is needed. We're still doing that. So we wanted to protect with different flows of patient through the hospital what was the surge of sick covid-19 positive patients and all the other patients. So we separated the as much as possible the cords. Um what has been really overwhelming in this sense is that the number of patient has been growing day by day and what we found is that for instance in my hospital but I know it's common experience in every other hospital. Every day you make the plan for the next two days but you need to have a couple of options ready for the next 5 days. You don't have to leave anything to uh to chunks. You have really to be prepared for the next surge and to guarantee everything that is time dependent that needs to come to your intensive care unit. How are you protecting your staff? What have you done around staffing and protecting health care personnel? I think many people in the US have talked about two groups that are critical to think about. That's the frail elderly with comorbid conditions and it's critical that we maintain safety and health of our healthcare workers. So what have you been doing around staffing and your healthcare workers? We've worked really really really hard from the very beginning not just in buying and stocking you know personal protection equipment but also to do a lot of training. So for instance what we've done in many places is increase as much as we could education and simulation and training in dawning and doing procedures. remember from previous epidemics a very uh key point is how you protect yourself not just while you're working but for instance when you do the doing procedure which is where a lot of the contamination could be so different solutions in different hospitals what I've done in my hospital was to set up a simulation team from the first day when we were trying to set up our uh first unit and what we did was train very fast 80 people in working protected in working in difficult uh situation that you're not used before. We decided to go for a very high level of protection even higher than what the WHO was recommending. The reason was that the very first beginning of the outbreak in Lombardi. Uh remember the outbreak was found in this intensive care in the hospital and we found a significant percentage of healthcare workers were were affected so we're infected. So we really wanted to protect our uh intensive care our hospital staff as much as we could. So we decided to go for weather of excel close contact of less than 2 m for FFP2 and above and N95 and above and then depending on what you do with the patient uh different types of protection from uh full uh cover to you know to waterproof gowns and so on. Um in my unit we are working with full protection now for these patients that makes it difficult also to staff because uh you could imagine working for 6 hours uh it's very difficult to work for more than 6 hours in a shift uh with this you cannot uh you cannot even go and have a rest you cannot drink you cannot go to the toilet so you know we are basically drinking a literal anal of water before dressing up and then we try to work and then you stop and you do something else and somebody has come. Um there are some more extreme situations where some people are not even able to do that and people are really working very long hours trying to protect themselves as much as they could. But we we do believe that is so important to protect the healthare workers that we don't want to go down on this standard. Uh we owe it to our healthcare workers but we owe it also to the patient and to the outbreak. We cannot afford uh to actually have people in quarantine or to to go away from this. So it's a very very important topic and I really would give the the message to everyone is you have to start to think now and make sure the training is in place. Stock is not just enough. You need to learn how to work with this protective equipment. Are you allowing the healthcare workers to go home from the hospital? Yes, we are. Of course, it's the it's very difficult to send them home, I would say, because no one has been summoned to work yet. uh but really the the sacrifice that people are seeing is uh something incredible. We are doing an enormous effort to really to to work and I would like to say this is not just about intensive care to save a life of an intensive care patient now is the effort of the all hospitals of the all healthcare authorities of everyone that work in healthcare. Everyone is working beyond what was asked to them and uh so we do very long hours to cover the shifts. Uh but so far actually it's incredible how united the group is uh to try to work to protect themselves and to give everything that we can to our patients. Now Mauricio, this is a a difficult question. Um there's been disturbing reports over the last day or two in uh the American newspapers about because you've you've run out of certain types of facilities largely intensive care unit beds, you're having to make pain painful decisions about triage. Are are those accurate or has that not been your experience? Now the only thing that we decided to do was really as I said before to give an intensive care bed to whoever needs an intensive care and we don't want to do anything differently. Uh of course we need to help the of the citizens and of the government to slow down the virus transmission because we could be on our knees very soon if we see more patients coming through. But at the moment we are giving intensive care to whoever needs an intensive care bed. And indeed h every day we end up with more intensive care beds than what we could have done the day before. Uh remember that precrisis we had 720 open beds. Today we have exceeded just with covid-19 positive patient that total capacity. We are not giving up and we are now thinking about even other possible solutions. So while we are increasing intensive care in every operating room where we can do that, we're even thinking about building a fast pace a massive intensive care facility in the region where we can maybe bring some more capacity to the system. Now uh you're an intensivist and you take care of these patients. Um you know most of it has been around respiratory disease but there's a number of questions about um h have you seen the the traditional uh other medical concerns hypertension cardiomyopathy is there in your you you have a wealth of experience is there anything unusual beyond the respiratory disease so let me first start with the respiratory disease because it's very interesting the pattern is very recognizable for this patient they come hypox hypox toxic to the to the hospital and there is very severe hypoxmia but they seem to have a good compliance so they don't seem to be fatigued at the moment they're able to breathe and indeed hypercapia is not a problem it's severe hypoxia when we intubate and we ventilate them we see that pattern carrying on at least for the first days and what we see is that the hypoxia is very severe we see p2 fi2 ratios that are very low but again pH and hypercapia is not usually a problem indeed the compliance seems to pretty good. They seem really to behave as pneumonia to which you have to give a little bit of time to the to the lung to rest. Um in the large numbers that you see, you will start to see some other types of organ failure. For us, it's too early to give you comments on other things as they may have seen in China. China in a webinar that we did with Bindu at for instance was reporting a significant percentage of patients with microitis or with cardiac dysfunction. We don't seem to see that as much here and indeed I would say that the majority of organ failure is related to respiratory failure. Um some patient they may require renal replacement therapy. Uh but we've not seen um significant other organ dysfunction of course as you would see normally in an intensive care patient with pneumonia. But really the predominant clinical picture is a severe respiratory failure from the pneumonia from this virus and any any unusual therapies being tried or have you just tried to use the traditional approaches to acute respiratory failure well known well practiced for decades now so I would say the only evidence that we have at the moment is that we can do supportive care for these patients so uh that's why our mission is to provide the bed to whoever needs an intensive care bed. Of course, there are reports coming out everywhere. There is a lot of anxiety understandably in physicians. Everyone wants to find a specific drug for this patient. I I say that probably I don't think there is any specific drug at the moment. I particularly enjoyed Howard your podcast with Anthony Fouchi the other day. I think it explained it so well uh that even in a moment of stress like this one, our enormous effort should be do to do the things that have an evidence and to do the things that can really help our patients. So I can speak for myself and for many people in the network we believe that that's where the effort has to be. We need to find ways to support more patients if they come. Um I don't think we need to take shortcuts in in therapy just using therapies that are available just because they are there. We don't know if they could be dangerous. So adjunctive therapies uh may provide benefit but maybe they could even be harmful for our patient. I think especially with these volume of cases that we see we need to do simple things that we know how to do well and we know how to do well intensive care. We know how to ventilate our patients well. This is what we are best at. All other therapies are something that we would consider. If we find ways to test them safely in a in a research fashion with rigorous methodology, then I think we should do it and I don't think we should lose time to do it, but I don't think we should take shortcuts with adjunctive therapies that have no evidence. There's so many questions coming in. Um I I think you know you're such an ake clinician, people really want to hear from you. Do you have a few more minutes, Mauricio? Yeah, of course. Wonderful. I think this is important. Thank you. Um there's been quite a few questions about reinfection. They've emerged in some of the literature. You know, someone who goes home gets reinfected. Have you seen much of that or is it too early to know? You know, it's a the what is being incredible about this even personally is that it feels like two months we've been fighting this but actually it's not even 3 weeks. Uh so I think it's too early for us to to talk about that. what we are doing to try to protect the population. We don't know what is the evidence out of it. But I come back to the question about labs. We used our labs in in a way that we wanted to prioritize patients that need intensive care to be correctly identified. So we had a protocol to identify them early and to have a fast process on that. And at the same time when people get better in order to send them home and to prevent them to reinfect maybe other people we do two uh swabs and if the two swabs are negative we send them home. We really don't know if this is common sense and pragmatism if there is any evidence for it but this is what we're doing. I'll return to some more questions but I just want to make sure I touch on this. Um you now have as much experience with this as anyone in the world. What are your recommendations for the United States? I recommend everything that we recommended from the very beginning to everyone and uh we even sent a letter with the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine on this is the don't underestimate uh this this is not a normal flu. Uh this is serious. Uh the majority of people that get infected will go through it normally. But the percentage of patients that get infected and requires hospitalization is high. and the per and the percentage of patient that require intensive care admission is high. So do not underestimate this. Get ready. Get ready with your search capacity in hospital. Make sure that you work on the protocols now. Make sure that if an outbreak comes, a cluster comes close to you. You don't lose time by putting the plan in action. I think that's very important. And do not think that you can win this battle just by increasing your capacity. Containment mitigation maneuvers, lowing down maneuvers are equally important, if not more important than anything that we can do as doctors. We want to fight and I really think this is the this is something I would have never imagined to face in my life. But this is something that we're going to wing with governments, health authorities and with citizens. If the moment comes where your government in the US or in any other country mandates selfisolation or any other maneuver, I think it's really is the personal responsibility of every citizen to do that because if we don't take down the transmission of the virus, then the capacity of your system will be overwhelmed. Do do you have any sense over the last few days? is I mean the reports out of China, Korea have suggested a waning of the number of individuals being infected. Um I I think we could debate the aspects of the mass of quarantine in China, but given that Beijing and Shanghai were generally spared, it's hard to imagine people not thinking it had worked, even if it could be seen as being draconian. It appears to have spared over a billion people. Do you have any sense yet uh of um what's happening both in Lombardia in terms of a daily number of cases versus the rest of Italy? Look, we have to be realistic. The incubation period of this virus is up to 14 days. So, we are basically bracing for you know even a higher peak of what's coming here. We know we are expecting it. The lockdown of Lombardi happened a few days ago. The lockdown of Italy just happened. We have to be prepared for a peak that probably is not going to slow down immediately. So we still expecting for the next two weeks to be ready to give any support to patient that may increase in numbers. And I I believe and I hope that after two weeks we will be able to give you better news. One more uh clinical question then a couple other questions. um you know the type of ventilation for acute respiratory stress is highly variable and sometimes you don't need the traditional ventilator and and there's now been concerns that the US may not have a sufficient number of ventilators if we end up being faced with the same type of cluster outbreak that you've had. Has there been different approaches to ventilation or just the traditional varying approaches and see what works with each patient? So I I tell you what we've done here which is basically using you know every capacity on ICU ventilators that we have but remember that there are ventilators even in the operating rooms and there are in many places more operating rooms than uh you know than ICU beds and indeed the responsibility of the government was also to try to stop elective surgery. That allowed us to free ICU beds from surgical patient that need intensive care. But we also freed a lot of resources from our theaters from our anestheticities that could help. Um we are also using non-invasive ventilation and we try to be very very pragmatic about it. I think patients that uh respond to non-invasive ventilation. We don't see that they get tired. We will keep them on that. We don't want patients to get tired on invasive ventilation. The feeling is that if you exhaust someone on an invasive ventilation, they may do longer they may require longer time on an invasive ventilation. So, but we have to use everything and indeed we have increased massively also the capacity of non-invasive machines in our hospitals. A as you know there you know there was a back and forth uh last year article in JAMA the basian analysis about ECMO following the Nijum report and I think there's a general feeling that ECMO does work. um have you used it in many patients or are you limiting it? Well, it's not that we are limiting but what we are seeing is that this is a problem of volume of respiratory failure that responds usually pretty well to simple techniques that have been studied and validated over the years. So we use quite a lot of pronuning and we use uh you know protective lung ventilation with this uh if a patient has some physiological reserve we see that they can do uh they can do better. We are reserving ECMO just for very selected cases. Uh we do believe that in this moment the focus should be really on providing high quality volume therapy uh for the large volume of patient that we see. And just returning to to uh one question about healthcare workers and then in this case specifically physicians and nurses uh when you go home um um how are you protecting your family? Well, I can tell you what I've done personally. The when the outbreak started, my kids were on holiday and then they stopped on holiday with my parents and my parents they don't live in the same region as mine. I thought I'm a doctor. I'm a citizen as well. My parents are old. So I decided coming from Lumber I will not see my parents for a bit. So basically I decided to to selfisolate that for the people that live in the same place. Uh there is no reason to panic on this. If you become a close contact or you think you've been contaminated, there are some very robust policy policies that the health authorities have put in place. For instance, if something like this happen, if you get symptoms, you will get a swab. If you don't get a symptom, they will ask you to spend some days trying to avoid to spend time in close contact. If you can try to use a different bathroom, a different bedroom. Of course, we are concerned. Uh but we cannot panic. We have to be sensible and we have to use the recommendations. The recommendations may change over the days. The communication needs to be clear to everyone so that you can protect yourself, your families, and your patients. Uh so Mauricio I actually know who you are since we're friends and colleagues but can you tell our listeners who you are? So I am Marita Chakonei. I am the professor of anesthesian intensive care medicine at Tumanitas University in Milang. I'm also the head of anesthesian intensive care at Manetas research hospital and I'm also the president-elect of the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine. um from JAMA and the United States, all of our colleagues, uh we are praying for you. You've done extraordinary work. Um and I can't thank you enough for for sharing the clinical experience you've had, the information about health care workers, um and re really a an intimate view of of what's uh been occurring in your area. uh you and your colleagues have done an extraordinary job and you're saving thousands of lives and uh obviously you're to be commended for it. Uh Mauricio uh thank you so much for joining me. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief of JAMA. We will continue to bring you these podcasts and everyone thank you for watching and listening. Mauricio, be healthy. Be healthy. Be healthy. Thank you. We will keep sharing everything that comes out here. Thank you.