>> Hello and welcome to this edition of Conversations with Dr. Bauchner, this is Howard Bauchner editor in chief of JAMA. And I'm here with a legendary observer of the U.S. healthcare system Paul Starr, welcome Paul. >> Glad to be with you Howard. >> Paul is a professor of sociology and public health at Princeton. He is the steward professor of communications and public affairs at the Woodrow Wilson School and I think for many people who have followed healthcare and how it's developed from a public policy or sociologic standpoint over the last many decades. His published in 1983, the Social Transformation of American Medicine which went -- which went on to win numerous awards including a Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction it is probably the pre-eminent text over the last four decades to describe healthcare in the United States. Paul's gone on to write other numerous books about healthcare and I think from the view of sociology, rather than public policy or health economics. We're here to discuss Paul's viewpoint entitled 'Using Controlled Trials to Resolve Key Unknowns About Policy During the COVID-19 Pandemic'. This has come up in some of my previous live streams with different people, but before we start Paul if you marry that book with the update in 2017 how do you -- how do you see the current pandemic in terms of the healthcare system? >> Ok, so one unfortunate continuity over these last several decades is that everything has become so deeply politicized, so polarized that I think the country has had great difficulty in calmly and rationally dealing with its problems in health policy. And now we see the same pattern in the pandemic where what really ought to be uncontroversial issues of science and medicine have been plunged into political debate and have made it just very hard for us as a country to deal with the problems that we face. There's really something tragic about this story and you see it in the controversy over wearing masks. I mean why should that be a political act? These days there's so many other things that have been drawn into politics in ways that really just don't make any sense. And I really think if you -- if you look at a lot of the controversies over the last several years you just have to shake your head almost in disbelief at -- at how misleading much of the discussion has been, how far we've been taken away from again dealing calmly and rationally with problems. >> When you think of the 1990's and 2000 and 2010 and you have the ACA in 2010-2011 what were the trends that emerged in those three decades that then lead us to the current situation? >> Ok, so -- so this goes to this book the Social Transformation of American Medicine, it you know came out of the early 1980's and what's happened since. And at the very end of that book in the original edition I had a chapter called the Coming of the Corporation and that turned out to be reasonable anticipation of what was in fact going to happen over the next several decades but I didn't get the details right in the original version. So for one thing at the time that went to the press the term "managed care" had not yet appeared in its subsequent meaning. In fact, it appeared when I went back in 2017 I went back to look at the whole history that the term managed care appeared just as that book was published for the first time. And so I think what we saw in the late 80's into the 90's was a whole cycle that began with expansion of managed care. And with the what I call the revolt of the payers -- public and private payers trying to control costs, trying to press down on a system. But then we had a reaction against that. The managed care backlash if you remember in the mid to late 80's and that whole pattern that played itself out and then in the early 2000's there was another push to control costs and this increasingly came from employers who started expanding deductibles, cost sharing. And so we've had a very considerable shift of costs from employees -- from employers to employees a kind of risk shift and that's created increasing anxiety of another kind. So both cases where these efforts to control costs and they created a great -- there was a lot of anxiety, continues to be anxiety about managed care. There was a lot of anxiety about -- about these increasing deductibles. People feel they're exposed to more risk and yet and you look at this whole period and really our record is not in the final result all that impressive. We are left with still these fundamental problems of cost. We still haven't addressed many of the basic inequities in the system and so again it's -- it has a kind of tragic feel to it that we've not really been able to overcome the basic problems that we started out with you back in the -- in the early 80's. >> You know the data; you know we're sitting at around 18% of the GDP now it would be interesting to see now what it is at the end of this year. Obviously all of the cost projections will change dramatically Sherry Glied's been on to chat about it, I've chatted with Don Burwick other people now. It's the great unknown; we know Medicaid is going to be a problem because state coffers are not going to be very filled, it's a shared responsibility. You have the presumptive nominee Joe Biden says take Medicare down to age 60 which is actually may be feasible. Is there a way forward Paul? >> Well there are -- there are things that can be done in the short term and actually too you mentioned the idea of reducing the age of eligibility for Medicare down to age 60. So I've just been on a panel this past year, the National Academy of Social Insurance looking at changes in Medicare eligibility and actually I think that one is the most feasible thing you could do in the short term. But really there are other changes to the Affordable Care Act that would be -- I think would make a great deal of sense. There's a kind of whole list of things again that would be very reasonable to do. But we're in the midst of an enormous economic crisis as well as a health crisis. And there is an unfolding disaster in the economy; it's an unfolding disaster in state and local governments. There is going to be tremendous pressure for cut backs in all kinds of things. So I wouldn't be confident about emerging from this period even with sensible incremental steps. I -- here's something that I really worry about I think there's going to be a lot of rage over what's happening. We may be beginning to see explosions of that what's happened in Minneapolis recently. But there are you know enormous numbers of people who are out of work, there are people who literally don't have enough food, who can't pay the rent. This is a tinder box; this is a situation where there could be really explosive reactions. Now not saying this is definitely going to happen but I worry about conditions like this. And just to get to our -- our view point. >> We'll get there right, definitely. >> We need to be reopening; we need to get the economy back up and running. We need to figure a way out of this crisis. And one of the reasons I wrote this piece was can we think more clearly with better evidence about what are the safest policies for reopening, for reopening schools for controlling the pandemic? Because if we do this unwisely, if we make really bad mistakes of this and we have another wave these reopening measures will -- will be seen to be a failure and we're going to be set back even worse. So figuring out the right policy is just vitally important and what I was suggesting in this -- in this article is that there is a contribution that researchers can make in evaluating different policies if we can get the policy makers, the state and local officials for example, to design certain policies so that they feed back data. And -- and I was particularly focusing on -- on two or what seemed to me to be two really important issues. >> I just want to mention, so in the viewpoint your premise is that there's missed opportunities and we can't afford them. And that there's natural experiments that we should do, they're not traditional randomized clinical trials at the individual level. But that there's natural experiments that we could do quickly over the next few months that would help us in the fall through the winter months and so I just wanted to mention to people what the premise is. Why don't you give the examples that are in the viewpoint. >> Right, right. So one of the most important things that some of the societies that have been most successful controlling the pandemic have done is that they've provided isolation housing outside the home for people who test positive for -- for the Corona virus. And we've not done that, we've not only had a failure in testing but we have typically told people who test positive to go home even though they may live with somebody who is highly vulnerable, who's over age 60, who may have some comorbid condition. We haven't provided alternative housing and now we have college dormitories that are empty, we have hotels that are empty these can serve as alternative housing for people who are infectious. And now what I'm suggesting is that not that we do this as the Chinese did on a mandatory basis -- I don't think that's going to go over in America. But I think many people if offered this opportunity would take it to avoid infecting other members of their family. And many people can't isolate within the home; they live in small apartments or they don't have enough bathrooms to go around. There are all kinds of reasons why people might find it impossible to isolate within the home. And so what we could do is have a situation where alternative housing is offered -- some would take it, some wouldn't take it. We ought to be testing not only those individuals but also other members of their family to figure out how much of a difference isolation housing makes. And if -- if we determine, which I think we'd likely to determine, that this in fact does prevent the spread of the disease within the household. That information I think could influence both policy makers and many different jurisdictions and it could influence individuals about whether they would want to take that choice if offered it. And let me mention something which didn't come up in the article but it has I think perhaps been -- been especially important and that has to do with providing post acute isolation facilities. Hospitals have been transferring people with COVID to nursing homes and there's -- I think you've had some pieces about this in your you know -- in your pages. But I know Connecticut now has finally created a post acute isolation facility and this ought to have been really a primary -- primary option because sending -- sending those patients back into nursing homes just was really that seems to me a terrible choice to make. So -- this ought to -- this ought to be a priority for policy making and it can be I think research can play a very important role in bringing out the potential value here of isolation facilities. >> Now Paul you live in a state, New Jersey that along with New York has been one of the epicenters and my sense is that the current executive branch wants to move on and walk away with the burden really falling on mayors and governors. I can't imagine what it's like to be a mayor or a governor trying to balance opening, protecting the people who live in their towns and cities and states. Can you imagine this occurring this experimentation with -- with in different areas? You also talk about schools and other area daycare centers we'll get to that specific example. Can you imagine that that -- that could happen at the town, city or state level? >> I think it could be done at the state level. In fact, in the piece I specifically mention New Jersey and I'm actually hoping this piece gets picked up and encourages policy makers to work with researchers in developing this kind of data and thinking about policy not just as a means to carry out the one right way to do it. But testing alternatives and then feeding back data to improve over time. I mean that really shouldn't be controversial, it -- I think it can be done at the state level. And I'm hoping -- I'm hoping some people pick this idea and run with it. >> The other example you give is around daycare centers, can you talk about that? We have a piece coming out next week and I'm going to do another live stream. I think one of the great unknowns is how do we open up schools in the fall? Do we and how do we having 50 million children not in school for another nine or ten months I can't imagine the consequences of that. But could you talk about the daycare example. >> Ok, it wasn't daycare I was talking about summer programs as a potential way to test out different alternatives for schools in the fall. >> Right. >> So over the summer there are -- well first of all there are camps of different kinds, there are athletic programs, there are science programs available for school age children. Rather than having a state say, here's the one way you have to do it could they set up different alternative rules and let the program sponsors make choices where various testing going on of the children, of the adults who are working with them, of the members of the family at home and let us see. For example, you might have a three week program of some kind you set it up let's vary the class sizes, vary the social distancing rules and let's feedback data from these alternatives. Now, you know because you can't randomize it you're not going to have a perfect experiment. There's going to be some degree of self selection here that provide that you know -- so it's a little less than perfect. But it could still be a valuable source of guidance in policy for schools in the fall. Again, again I'm just I'm trying to anticipate you know what's going to happen in the fall. There are different international experiences but they're not really testing out variations that are open to school officials. And you know where school officials could set different rules about how schools are going to work, how classes are going to work. And -- and if we could answer some of those questions with data I think we'd be a lot better off. >> Yeah, currently I think once -- once the mayors particularly the large cities sort out what's happening within their healthcare system they are going to have to turn their attention to schools. I don't think they can wait until August to figure out what's going to happen in September and they'll be doing it blindly and that's your point is that a lot of the decisions will be made blindly. >> Yes and this is also a question for parents. Are parents going to be willing to send their children to school? And one of the key questions that we need to answer is the extent to which children may be carriers of the virus and what the consequences will be for other members of the family. So I mean I -- I know of such families right now who are very anxious about what is going to happen under these circumstances and who. Again if there were better data available that might influence their decisions. And you know I -- I'm really hoping we could figure out ways to encourage schools to reopen. I can't imagine keeping schools closed for all of next year, how can that possibly -- how can that possibly work? So we need to solve this problem and again you know research could really make a contribution here if we could get some kind of cooperation from the policy makers in developing these alternatives. >> Paul how do you think we've done -- you know I -- I have flown home. My family and most of my relatives reside in Boson, I'm in Chicago at the moment and I have flown. I saw friends this weekend and for some friends I could see them and take my mask off, spend you know stay six feet apart but other friends said keep your mask on and stay eight feet apart. How do -- and you know we know the high risk groups; 60-65 or older, comorbid conditions and nursing homes. That is 75 to 80% of the deaths in the U.S. we know where the focus is. How do you think we've done in trying to explain to people risk? >> Oh, I think it's so hard for people to judge and there's a lot of work on the social psychology of risk and how bad people are at making estimations of risk and how likely they are to overestimate certain risks because of you know how salient they are, how dramatic they are and so forth. You know so it is I think very difficult to -- to do this. Yeah, I -- on this I think science can make a contribution but really so much depends on -- on the -- the ability of public officials and others to communicate effectively what the facts are. And again we're just living in this moment when everything is so polarized there are such strong interest in emphasizing one side or the other and you just really you know wonder about how we're going to again come to rational choices. >> How do you think this will play out? I suspect from your expression that some of the family members and risk around school may be someone you know personally but. >> Yes. >> How do you think this notion of risk will play out with schools? >> Yes, the family I have in mind one of the parents is in a high risk category. And indeed that affects their whole view of this situation. So yeah I mean I think some will feel much more confident that they're not at high risk. Others -- others of course won't really know because there are so many uncertainties here and so many people of course in different economic positions. For example, varying in their ability to work from home, to telecommute -- I think that creates a great disparity in perceptions about the urgency of reopening. >> Clyde Yancy wrote a wonderful piece because of the obvious and now well documented difference in attack rates between individuals and communities of color versus whites. And Clyde there's a wonderful quote from his viewpoint, 'social distancing is a privilege'. You've certainly seen it from New York City where people have gone; Florida, Long Island, Connecticut those are not the people from Brooklyn, Bronx and Queens. Largely Manhattan I'm not disparaging them for having gone but you can see the enormous disparity in that. >> I have -- I have two refugees from New York City living with me; two of my children who work in the city and have been able to come back out here to Princeton. And I'm very glad that they're able to be here and not to be in an apartment buildings where they would've been riding up elevators that would've exposed them to the risk. I mean I know it's -- they know it's a privilege that they enjoy that many of their neighbors do not. >> Paul when you -- when you talked about the rancor in American politics and how that's influenced the healthcare discussion debate. How do you think social media is contributed to it? It's one of the questions that -- that people have asked so I'm asking you how do you think social media has added to the rancor? >> Well, you know it just happens this week The Wall St. Journal has had a very interesting report on what happened within Facebook over the last two years. And so internal analyses within the company indicated that what critics were saying was true, Facebook had been contributing to that rancor, to the polarization and there were proposals inside the company about how to reduce that and how they could change their algorithms so that they would reduce those extreme voices. But in fact they decided, Mark Zuckerberg decided not to do anything. And the whole effort was put on the back burner and it is I think you know really very telling that the internal analysis within Facebook confirmed what other people had been -- had been saying and yet the company is not willing to do anything about it. It wouldn't do anything about it because in fact a lot of that extreme stuff that appears increases what they refer to as user engagement and their algorithms are all geared toward increasing user engagement and so they profit from it. That is -- that is part of what has gone wrong with -- with media so I think social media has been contributing to it. Now they've -- Twitter in particular I guess has taken some steps recently. >> Right. >> You know and they're going to get a lot of heat for doing it. They have it -- I think this is true with Google as well they have tried to direct people more toward reliable scientific sources instead of the disinformation that is appearing online. That's all to their credit and I'm -- I just -- you know a lot of this however has been a case of trying to you know close the barn door when you know the cattle are already out. So in the case of that movie Plandemic you the disinformation film you know that had already achieved very considerable attention on social media before they began taking some action against it. So now they really -- you know I think -- I think they behaved actually a little better in this situation than in some others but no I think social media is contributed to it. >> Paul how do you -- how do you think if you can 30-35 million people unemployed, we've already talked about schools colleges and so you have the unemployed schools and colleges people are going to lose their healthcare they're going to end up in states that have expanded, they may end up back on Medicaid, COBRA is really quite expensive. How do you balance that social economic consequence with shutting down the economy so abruptly? Is there a way to think that through? What is the balance, how do you strike a balance of opening up and people will die because we've done that versus the enormous consequences for the other 50 to 100 to 150 million so affected by such closing of social norms? >> Well look we have to get the economy back running. I don't think there is any question about that. We have to figure out how to reopen most effectively, most safely and for those people -- for example the people at high risk who should not be required to go back to work when there still is a significant chance of infection we should be directing our aid very carefully toward the people most in need who are also most in jeopardy. I mean that's the -- that -- do you look at a lot of the way the money is gone out it's -- it's not been very well directed, they want to get a lot of money -- Congress wanted to get a lot of money into the economy to prevent an immediate collapse. But it's I think very clear that these bailouts were not carefully directed. We've seen lots of stories for example including stories involving healthcare, including our hospitals where we've got the biggest, wealthiest systems getting enormous bailouts because of the formula that was used. And some of those that actually most deserving and most in need not getting support. So you know we need better tailored policies that direct the money again to the people most in need who are most in jeopardy. And -- and otherwise we've got to figure out this problem of how to get -- how to get the economy back up. >> When I talked to Don Berwick who you know and Mike Leavitt the former governor of Utah they thought this was so fundamental that there would be changes in society beyond healthcare that there would be fundamental changes in society. They were hesitant to tell me what they thought they would be but they thought that this pandemic was certainly going to have consequences as I said beyond healthcare. Do you have a sense of that? That you know you've been an observer of the American healthcare system but you've lived in the United States many, many years this is a very fundamental impact like 9-11 somehow. >> Yes I -- so I -- it's impossible for us at this point to predict the long run outcome. So I think one set of possibilities we can think of as accelerating effects; the pandemic may accelerate things that were already happening. So for example, just to take a very prosaic example many of us are using online services; we're getting groceries online various buying other things online. Some people were resisting that beforehand that now have fine I'll you know -- I could do this; it's going to -- it's going to shift retail. Again, it's a prosaic example but I think the result is that there are going to be a lot of malls, a lot of shopping centers that are going to be permanently devastated by this and so that's the kind of accelerating effect was already happening and even more of it's going to happen. People have talked about telemedicine in the same way you know it's going to accelerate the use. So I think there are a whole bunch of affects like that that are the pandemic has an accelerating event. There's an article in Foreign Affair by Richard Haass saying the pandemic is going to be an accelerating event in geopolitics. He's talking about a lot of very unhappy developments in terms of great power discord, U.S. versus China, we see the you know exacerbation of tensions over this, there are lots of other things happening so accelerating in that way. What we don't know, what is really impossible to say at this point is whether it will be a turning point whether some affects will just so outrage people, there'll be a fundamental re-thinking. And you know I -- I hope that there is a turning point on some of the problems we haven't been able to address. I think of the fact that over the last I don't know how many years we have been underfunding public health in this country and you know just -- just before this pandemic the Trump administration was proposing a reduction in the budget for the CDC. You know I mean this has been going on for a while. Well, maybe Americans need to think about public health in a more positive way and understand how important it is to have these capacities of you know which you know if you're lucky you don't need them but when you really need them you must have them. And -- and there are other things I think I would I'd hope people begin to understand that paid leave from work is something that you know can be in your interest. Like you don't want the person who's -- who's got COVID to be showing up for work. You don't want them to be in the supermarket. We have an interest those of us who are healthy in having people who are sick get healthcare, have some protection like paid work. These are -- these are practical ways in which it really is true that we are in this together. >> It's been 35 minutes but I have to bring it back to one last question Paul. So I'm a physician, you've been an observer of healthcare for many decades we will get through this pandemic I have no idea what the second wave will look like in the fall, hopefully it will not be substantial. And we will get to January or February or March we will get to a vaccine in 12 or 18 or 24 months, hopefully it will be safe and effective. But where do we go in healthcare to -- to try to broker that tension between individual choice but ensure more people get more value out of the system and at least restrain increases in cost. It will never come down; we are going to hover around 17 and a half to 18 and a half GDP I can't imagine it coming down much. But it -- not to go to 20-22 or 25 how do we get there? >> Ok this is not a question I can answer like in two minutes. >> Ok. >> This is a big, this is a big question and so you know I -- I think we have an example of programs and policies that have better controlled costs than others. And frankly our employer based insurance system has done a very good job. I think on the other hand Medicare has done a much better job and we ought to be able to take lessons from that experience and apply them more widely. So you know again this is -- this is a huge subject. >> I know it is. >> I have always been very cautious about the destruction that would come from Medicare for all. On the other hand, as I say, there are things about the way Medicare system works and don't forget it's a system that has not only public Medicare it has private [inaudible] plans, it's actually I think it's a better structured market. People don't think of Medicare as a market place but it is a market place. I think it's a better structured market than the rest of the market and I think we can take lessons from it and apply those more generally. So that's -- I think that's the one thought I'll leave you with but again this is an enormous and complicated subject. So maybe -- maybe for another discussion. >> This is Howard Bauchner, Editor in Chief of JAMA what a privilege to talk to Paul Starr. Paul is a professor at Princeton; he is at the Woodrow Wilson School and the Steward Professor of Communications and has been an observer of the U.S. healthcare system, written extensively about it now for almost four decades. Paul stay healthy and thanks for joining me today. >> Well thank you very much for inviting me. >> Take care Paul. >> Alright, so long.