- Goran Bergstrom and Mike Gibson coming to you live from AHA 2025 here with JAMA. Talk to us a little bit about your study. You know, we have always used demographics to figure out risk. We've always used, say the calcium score to add to that risk prediction. But you're doing something very interesting. You're adding information from the coronary CT angio to further refine the risk prediction. Talk to us a little bit about what you did. - Exactly, and we actually did that. We have a Swedish population, a random population from the Swedish Population Registry. And then the age is 50 to 64 years. And we applied a random, just a risk algorithm pull cord equation, on top of that, the calcium scoring. And then we also did a coronary CT angiography on these individuals. And we could see that the addition of calcium scoring, as we know before, added to the risk prediction. And then the CTA added even more on top of that to the risk prediction. - So Goran, what were you looking at on the CTA? - We had a visual assessment of the CTA. It was presence of atherosclerosis, the level of stenosis, more or less than 50%, calcifications, or no calcifications on the plaques. So a complete visual assessment, no visual assessment at this stage. - So do you have a plan for future AI assessment looking at total plaque volume and, you know, soft plaque, hard plaque, things like that? - Yep, that's ongoing, those studies, and our data is available for applying those techniques to the images. So we have that ongoing, and we'll probably have results from that next year sometime. - And where did you reclassify patients? Was it in the high risk people or low risk people? Where did this really change management? - Yep, so the study is called (indistinct) and this population is a low risk population. So most of these individuals were at low risk from the start. And after this 7.8 years of follow-up, they were all in low risk. So the reclassification occurred in that low risk group. - Low risk group. - Yes. - Well Goran, thanks for joining us. Thanks for improving our ability to risk stratify patients all the way out through eight years. Look forward to seeing what you do in the future with even more sophisticated AI interpretation. Thanks, Goran, and thanks to all of you for joining us here live from AHA with JAMA.