I would almost give you in writing that there's going to be a surprise, like two weeks before the election we will hear there's an effective vaccine. There's somebody who needs to be reelected who will rely on saying, "I got you a vaccine." I don't know what they're going to do with the data, but I'm really concerned that we may have a not very effective vaccine, which is going to be touted like the success of the world and it's going to be used as a political tool. So I think we in science need to stay focused and we need to stay true to the science and the data, and not be swayed by what I worry may be political manipulations. I just worry and I hope I'm wrong--I hope this is just my own paranoia--that the administration as an October surprise would be willing to reach their hand into the Warp Speed bucket and say, "Look, here's a magical vaccine that's going to work for you" when it hasn't been adequately tested. Now as long as we play by the rules, as long as we have the phase three trials we need to have, then we're good. But I just do worry about that. Yeah, I'm very worried about it, Howard. And the reason I'm worried is we already saw what happened with hydroxychloroquine, where the pressure from the administration to the FDA to give emergency use authorization without any compelling data, and obviously that has never been shown in any meaningful way to have any efficacy, and you know, also some questions of safety. So if we see that replayed with the vaccine, that's even worse, because the threshold they're talking about is 50% efficacy, which is kind of like the flu vaccine. That's not very good. That's a low bar. And so the problem we're going to have, and you know this far better than I do, but when you go into scale vaccination, you're going to see things that you didn't see in any trials, and so you want to actually be very careful about letting the genie out of the bottle, if it is even a genie, because we're going to see people that have untoward effects. It's unquestionable. The hope is that it's extremely rare. But, you know, this is why we need an FDA that's tougher on this and doesn't buckle to political machinations. And that's what we have right now it seems, and you know, I hope that isn't what comes into play. This October surprise is what people are concerned about. And the pressure it puts on you. So my job as Commissioner is to make sure to the fullest extent possible that any pressure that comes to the agency is not reflected downward. And I mean downward only in the troops and the incredible expertise they have. I'm not gonna prejudge the data that come in. I can't necessarily address hypotheticals, Howard. You're bringing up a really good point. But we will absolutely follow the criteria we've put out. I have great respect for Steve Hahn. I do think he has tried to make clear that his North Star is going to be "We need the data, and we need to have the scientific evaluation be proper and careful." And I think I'm feeling better about it. Knowing how much pressure there can be, I can't say that I'm 100% confident that there's going to be no shenanigans here. But with his hand on the tiller and being forewarned about what might happen if the science doesn't drive this I'm very confident. You probably saw Donald Trump's tweet recently where he said, and you know this, "The deep state, or whoever, over at the FDA is making it very difficult for drug companies to get people in order to test vaccines and therapeutics. Obviously, they--the FDA--are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed and saving lives! @SteveFDA." So what is he saying? He's trying to now bully the FDA into approving, possibly through EUA, a vaccine or vaccines before they've been adequately tested. That is a major mistake for a lot of reasons. First of all, as we said earlier, these are novel vaccine strategies. We don't have any information about these strategies. You don't want them tested in only a few thousand people before you are putting them in millions of people. You want to have the biggest safety portfolio you can, and make sure all the sub-groups are represented. And you want to have a statistically robust way to say this is effective. If we don't do that, then we're going to potentially scare an already skittish American public about this vaccine. The one thing that will get us out of this mess, in addition to hygienic measures, is vaccines. And if we screw that up, I think we've done an enormous amount of harm.