[ Music ] >> Hello, I'm Dr. Preeti Malani, JAMA Associate Editor. I'm also the Chief Health Officer at the University of Michigan and a professor of medicine in the Division of Infectious Diseases. Today I'm talking with two guests who are long-time colleagues about the recently identified Omicron SARS-CoV-2 variant and how its unique structure separates it from previous variants of concern seen during the COVID-19 pandemic and the many implications for both U.S. and global health. The first is Dr. Carlos Del Rio a distinguished professor of medicine in the Division of Infectious Diseases at Emory University School of Medicine and professor of epidemiology and global health at the Rollins School of Public Health. He's also a JAMA editorial board member. Welcome, Carlos. >> Happy to be with you. >> I'm also joined by Dr. Adam Lauring an associate professor at the University of Michigan in the Division of Infectious Diseases and also the Department of Microbiology and Immunology. Dr. Lauring is a physician scientist whose research focuses on the evolution of RNA viruses. And he is, like myself and Dr. Del Rio, a practicing infectious disease doctor. Welcome, Adam. >> Thanks for having me. >> And thank you both for joining this conversation. I know it's been an exceptionally busy time. So as viruses spread, they constantly change their genetic code, which results in mutations. Sometimes these mutations change the biology of the virus. This is something that was talked about as a possibility for SARS-CoV-2 very early on. And I remember, Adam, talking with you especially about this being a possibility. And what's been observed for the past year is that certain mutations in the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 may make the virus more transmissible or affect how well vaccines protect people. The CDC uses a classification system designating some variants as variants of concern. And this began with Alpha and, of course, most recently Delta. And there's also a designation of variants of high consequence, which thankfully we have not seen so far. And Omicron was designated as a variant of concern within just a few days of being identified. So, Adam, this is stuff that you think about a lot, and there's been a lot of talk about this variant. In particular, the large number of mutations. And as someone who is really deeply, deeply immersed into evolution of RNA viruses and this virus in particular, let's talk mutations and what this means. What clues do the mutations tell us so far? >> In terms of Omicron I think the big thing that struck everyone at the get-go were the shear number of mutations in the spike protein. As you mentioned, spike is a key protein for the virus that allows it to attach to the cells. Mutations affect how well it spreads. And that's not to the exclusion of mutations outside of spike, which are also important for transmissibility and potentially severity. But there's so many in spike, I think 35 or so in Omicron. And, of course, spike is also important as a target for our monoclonal antibodies and also for the vaccines. And so I think that raised alarm bells, appropriately, and why we're all paying attention to it this week. >> So one of the things that's being discussed is the origins, you know, where and how? And, of course, this was sequenced in South Africa, and it's yet unknown where and how it emerged. But one of the things being discussed is whether this variant emerged in someone whose immune system is otherwise not normal. And, Adam or Carlos, can you comment on that? >> Well, let me start first by stating that, you know, as long as there's transmission, viruses replicate, and they'll mutate. And as Adam will tell you, RNA viruses are particularly prone to mutate. So we learn, you know, we learned this in HIV a long time ago, the way to stop mutations is to stop viral replication; right? If you control viral replication, the virus doesn't mutate. So I think we will continue to see mutations in this virus happen as long as we have a pandemic, as long as we have transmission. And, again, emphasizes the importance of trying to control transmission in order to decrease the mutations. And we've seen, you know, Delta emerge in India. And we've seen, you know, Gamma emerge in Brazil. And we've seen now Delta, I mean, Omicron supposedly emerge in South Africa. What, one of the theories is that a person with HIV and severe immune suppression was infected for a prolonged period of time was, where, maybe over 300 days is where this virus then evolved. And the evolution of the virus happened because, again, as you're unable to clear the virus, the virus is multiplying. It's continuously mutating and changing in that environment. And that itself could have led to this variant being developed. But, you know, we have a lot of immunosuppressed patients throughout the world. We have them with HIV. We have, you know, patients with, transplant recipients. We have people that are immunosuppressed with some of the drugs we have. So, again, emphasizes the importance of, not only vaccinating immunosuppressed individuals, but also continuing NPIs for immunosuppressed individuals. Because whenever I have an immunosuppressed patient infected with SARS-CoV-2, I always worry about, oh, my god, is this somebody who's going to not be able to clear the virus and yet lead to another variant? >> I'll echo that, what Carlos said. I think the, to me, looking at it, as I indicated with so many mutations, that spike, it's clear that there's been a lot of selection, a lot of evolution and adaptation happening there in that protein. And so I think the two leading hypotheses are this immunocompromised host idea, because with prolonged infection you can get enough time for that selection to happen and mutations to accumulate. The other one which receives, has received less attention is the possibility of what's called a reverse zoonosis. So that SARS-CoV-2 has, you know, gone into other animals over time and that, you know, it would evolve differently in an animal host than it will in a person. And then, you know, could then potentially enter back into the human population as a very different virus. Right now we have no, we don't know which of those is more likely, but we do know that there's been a lot of evolution happening in Omicron. And I think those are the two major theories. And I'll just, you know, I've always been, pushed back gently on immunocompromised hosts origin theories for these variants, not scientifically always, but because I do worry about stigmatizing these patients. And so I think we have to be very careful in talking about variants and these hosts and what to do about it, because it's a really complicated issue. >> But I think, Adam, what clearly we understand from this variant is that it's not like was one strain that through subsequent transmissions to other individuals accumulated mutations. >> Yeah. >> It's pretty clear -- >> Exactly. >> -- that all these mutations occurred in the same individual, in the same host. >> Or at least the vast majority of them. Yes, very much so. Yes, very much. It's been evolving in some sort of environment for some time. And it's not being, it wasn't interrupted by transmission as much as we, you know, have been seeing with SARS-CoV-2. >> And when you look at the phylogenetic trees, I mean, it's really out there. I mean, this is really a very separate branch from many of the other variants we've seen in the past. >> Carlos, you live in Atlanta. You know, you're, do a lot of different things. You're an infectious disease doctor. You're also a public health and global health expert. And you work down on the street from the CDC, literally walking distance. What's happening right now? What data are being collected? What's going to happen to inform what happens next in the public health arena in the coming days, weeks and months? >> Well, I think there's several things that are happening. Number one, I think we need not forget that there's still an ongoing severe pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 with Delta here in this country. We don't need Omicron. I mean, you in Michigan are having our hospitals overwhelmed, and we'll have a significant epidemic there. You have it also in Minnesota and in many other places. So I think we need not to forget that the pandemic has not ended. So we still need to control the pandemic locally. And the fact that, you know, there's still many, many American who have not been immunized continues to be a concern and something that we need to worry about. From a public health standpoint, I think the coronavirus task force and the CDC are focussing on several things. Number one, CDC has now authorized boosters for anybody over the age of 18. And I think the first recommendation is let's try to boost people as much as we can. And, you know, only about 20 percent of Americans who've been vaccinated have been boosted. So we got to get more of our patients, our families, our friends, ourselves boosted if we haven't. Number two, I think CDC needs to do, it needs to scale up testing, and it needs to scale up genomic testing and genomic sequencing. You know, normally about 5 to 7 percent of isolates get sequenced nationwide, and we need to scale that up quite a bit. The other thing is we need to also establish very good ways to look at travelers. And rather than saying, oh, we're closing our borders and we're, you know, shutting down flights, what we need to do is we need to continue having flights, but we need to be sure that several things are happening. Number one, the U.S. is requiring a SARS-CoV-2 negative test before, 72 hours before you board. From the countries that have Omicron, they may actually move that to, closer maybe to 24 hours before departure. Number two, they're talking about doing a test after you arrive in this country, maybe two to three days after you arrive. And following people that arrive from those countries carefully. But I think, again, we need to really scale up testing. We're not doing enough testing. We've never done enough testing in our country. And we have to do genomic surveillance, and we need to push vaccinations. Those are the public self-strategies that's we know work, and we need to continue to do. >> Adam, can you add to that too? You know, at the sort of virologic level, what are some of the things that would, might be happening right now in labs? >> I think, just in my discussions with folks over the last few days, since coming back from the Thanksgiving break, there's a lot of discussion on how to shift testing programs, for example, at our health system to certain platforms that might provide an early alert to Omicrons there. Certain, you know, certain PCR tests have a signature that can be used for screening the Omicron variant and prioritizing certain kinds of tests or prioritizing for sequencing individuals with a recent travel history to try to leverage the capacity to where we think we would most likely, you know, be able to find Omicron and react in a timely manner. So that's what I've been hearing conversations, you know, around here. >> You know, the only thing I would add to that, Adam, is that, in many of the cases of Omicron in many European countries, there was no connection to travel; right? So we're just going to rely -- I think the travel history, we go back to the beginning of the pandemic, it was not travel to China. We found it in individuals because it was already here. I think you make a good point. If you're using the Taq PCR, there'll be this famous, you know, S-gene target failure that is pretty much a signature. And as a colleague in South Africa told me, you know, you could see the three spikes, but the S-gene is totally flat. You, it's really a very clear indication. And that's how this was first picked up, it was they were seeing this sort of large number of those S-gene target failures. The problem is a lot of the testing that we do in our hospitals doesn't have that problem. It actual does not detect that. So you're absolutely right, you need to change your approach to testing. The other thing that I like to remind people is, from all the indications we have, the rapid tests still pick up this variant very well. Because, again, most of the mutations are in spike, and spike is not the antigen in the rapid test. So it's really important, again, to make rapid tests available. And I think, you know, in our country, rapid tests are still very expensive and not available to the greater majority of the population. So one of the other things that the government needs to do and CDC needs to do is really subsidize rapid testing so people can actually test themselves very actively. >> I agree with you, Carlos, on that. And this is something that we can do better. And, you know, Adam, your lab has been very, very busy for the past couple years. I mean, it's been busy always, but you're doing a lot of sequencing. Can you just explain what's involved with that and why it's hard to do a lot of sequencing quickly. >> Sure. I think the, it's easy to say we need to do more sequencing. It's harder to do more sequencing. I think, I will say that I think the U.S. has done a fantastic job since early 2021. We're up to about 4 to 5 percent. By comparison, the UK, which is the gold standard, is around 10 to 15 percent in terms of cases sequenced. The biggest challenge we found of late is just getting the viruses, getting those samples. We've been able to increase capacity, as many labs have over the last year, in terms of sequencing. And we can generally turn around sequencing two to three days from when it arrives in my lab to actually having the complete data uploaded. And that takes a lot of work and coordination, but we kind of got that down. The hard part is getting those samples. You know, the rapid tests are fantastic. The point of care tests that are used in many emergency departments are fantastic, and they're important. But those samples are not captured for sequencing. And so, you know, when people look at the number of cases, easily 50 percent of those samples you're not going to be able to sequence, because they're just not suitable for sequencing. And then beyond that it takes a lot of effort, you know, to just get the samples from the clinical microlab or what not in a timely manner to a sequencing lab. And there's just a lot of logistics involved in doing that. And that's, for us, is the biggest challenge. But then, yeah, it takes about a day or so to prepare the sample for sequencing and then another day to actually put it on the sequencer, get the data, analyze it and quality check everything. So it's a process. We've gotten better at it. And I know many of my colleagues have, you know, everyone's nipping around the edges and improving things all the time to get this to working well. And, you know, I have nothing but amazement at what the U.S. has done since January. Obviously, we were behind other countries for some time, but I think there's been a great effort in 2021. >> The other thing I would say, when you said, Adam, about getting samples. I know a lot of scientists, speaking to my colleagues here at the Emory Vaccine Center, that are trying to find samples, are trying to get isolates of Omicron; right? Because what, a lot of questions that we have and a lot of what's happening in research laboratories right now is trying to understand, indeed, in actual samples, do the neutralizing antibodies work? Do the vaccine, do I have [inaudible] from vaccinated patients? Do they neutralize the virus? Et cetera, et cetera. So a lot of the research that is happening right know in the laboratory is really trying to understand really what is the significance of this virus? What is, you know, we still don't know the R naught of this virus. We still don't know if it's more transmissible, less transmissible. We still don't know if it's, you know, more resistant or less susceptible to monoclonal antibodies and to neutralizing antibody from vaccines or not. We don't know much about the clinical spectrum. So there's a lot of questions that we don't know. Some of them will be answered in the clinic, but a lot of them are going to be answered in the laboratory. And I would caution that, you know, we're hearing all sorts of things. I mean, yesterday you saw the CEO of Moderna saying, our vaccines don't work against this virus. And I didn't see any data to back him up on him saying that. But at the same time, then I heard, you know, physicians from, colleagues from Israel saying, people that have been boosted are doing fine, and they don't, they're not, even if they get infected, they have a very mild disease with Omicron. So we need data. And I think what we need really is to stop sort of rumors. And we really need data that we can look at and that we can actually understand. >> Agree wholeheartedly, Carlos. So let's shift a bit to therapeutics. This is something that has changed relatively quickly. And we've gotten better at supportive treatment and supportive care in the hospital. And, again, the focus with therapeutics has been really to prevent hospitalizations. And I'm thinking about monoclonal antibodies, which we just mentioned briefly. And these are, of course, designed to mimic the body's natural immune response. And they've been available for patients who are at high risk for progression to severe disease. And these, again, they specifically target the spike protein. So, Adam, how does Omicron affect the monoclonal antibody strategy? And, as you know, we're doing a lot of this out of Michigan Medicine. >> Right. I mean, you mentioned, you know, the monoclonals here at our system. And, of course, you know, you've seen the same e-mails I have. With the surge in Michigan there's, you know, there's not enough supply. It's been really hard. So that, I think, just emphasizes we're dealing with Delta now. And, you know, it's good to think about Omicron, but we've got problems to solve right now. In terms of the monoclonals and Omicron, I think we'll, I suspect we'll have data, I would imagine in a week or so. I imagine right now that, you know, the various companies or labs are testing the available monoclonals to see. We do have some clues based on the mutations that are in Omicron, because there are many within the targeted epitopes of these monoclonals. And it appears that, you know, some of them are going to, you know, probably have a loss of significant activity based on those mutations. Now, it's hard to know because you don't know how these mutations interact together. They may not be the sum of their parts. And so we'll have to wait for that data for a week. But I suspect we will see that, you know, some of the monoclonals might not work as well against Omicron. And then, but that some of them will probably be just fine based on what we know about the epitopes and the mutations. But we're just going to have to see, you know, what develops over the next week as people get the data. >> You know, I think one of the most interesting things happening in monoclonals is actually the AstraZeneca monoclonal that has a very long half-life, right, 6 to 12 months. And it will be very interesting to see how that develops, it still being in clinical trials. But how it responds, not only against Omicron, but against Delta, but how much we can use it for prevention. And, again, I go back to our immunosuppressed patients. If they cannot respond to a vaccine, can we give them monoclonal every 6 to 12 months and prevent them from getting infected? But, you know, at the end of the day, what I worry about [inaudible], go back to global health, is monoclonals, we're struggling to get them here. They're totally unavailable in the great majority of the world. And it's not a therapy we can scale up in any significant way. And most of the world, you know, monoclonals is like talking about, you know, going to the moon. It simply doesn't happen. We need to find other therapies. And I think the development, oral antivirals, I think, is exciting. You know, the FDA advisory committee yesterday, in a very interesting discussion, voted to approve, 13 to 10, the Molnupiravir, the monoclonal that I'll say, you know, was developed by some of my colleagues here at Emory, but I have nothing to do with it, so I can talk about it. I have yet to see the data. I'm looking forward to see the paper published. We can actually look at the data. What we've seen in press releases is, you know, a decrease from the initial report to what appears to be maybe a 30 percent efficacy, which is not great, but I guess it's better than nothing. You know, it made me think about the early days of HIV when we approved ACT. You know, it didn't do much, but it still got approval, and it still was useful as one of the antivirals. But other antivirals are going to appear, and I'm looking forward to seeing more. Because what we really need is oral antivirals that we can scale up globally to treat people with SARS-CoV-2 infection. >> Yeah. No, I think that it's, I'm glad you mentioned that. And as you know, you can't just drive up to like a local pharmacy and pick up monoclonal antibodies. They require specialized access, infusion, monitoring. And, you know, in theory, if you have something that can be given early, can give at the point of care of testing, that does incrementally reduce your risk of hospitalization and death from COVID. It could be something that would change things a lot. But lots of questions and, you know, as you know, Carlos, there's a similar pill from Pfizer that's going to be discussed. And, you know, likely in the coming weeks these oral antivirals will become available. But, again, they don't replace vaccination. So it's just, you know, one more tool in our toolbox. >> But it would be interesting, you know, we talked a lot about these pills decreasing your risk of progression to hospitalization and death, but we also need to look at the data. Are they decreasing transmission; right? Are they decreasing the viral load in the nasal secretions and, therefore, decreasing transmission? Because, if you get only a 30 percent decrease in hospitalization, but we get a 60 percent decrease in transmission, I still think it's very valuable to use a drug like this, you know, in the setting of decreasing transmission within the community. Very, no different than what we do with oseltamivir for influenza; right? >> Yeah, absolutely. And I think, again, the oral antivirals, they do have more potential for global use. But, again, I think we're a long way there. You know, we're a long way from equity. So I want to talk about vaccines, because they've now been available for almost a year. It's hard to believe. I know that probably the three of us were, got our first dose. We were very, very lucky to get our first doses in December. I feel like that was a, that's a day that stays with me. About 8 billion doses plus now given worldwide. Adam, let's talk about vaccine effectiveness. And, you know, this is something you've done studies for years around vaccine effectiveness for flu. And something that you've taught me, and something I've said, I've kind of, should attribute it to you because I say it a lot, is that vaccination is not a therapeutic intervention for the person. It's really about protecting everyone else. And I also think a lot about illness versus infection, because we're clearly not preventing infections in everyone, but we are preventing illness in a lot of people. But, you know, as we're thinking about Omicron, and as you point out, you know, we're still thinking about Delta. What are you thinking about vaccine effectiveness? What are the things you're going to pay attention to? >> Right. I think, you know, with Omicron, obviously, it's way too early, and I'm not going to listen to anything about Omicron vaccine effectiveness for several weeks or months. Because, as you know, it takes a while to do these studies well. And it takes a careful look at the data and controlling for all sorts of bias and confounders in an observational study. So, you know, I'm sure we're going to hear a lot early on about how many people were vaccinated who got Omicron and such, but it's going to take a while to figure out. I mean, we're still learning about Delta and vaccine effectiveness. You know, that said, with the usual caveats, I will say I suspect that with Omicron, given its mutations, that we will see that, you know, circulating antibodies won't, probably won't neutralize it as well as kind of the original SARS-CoV-2. And I suspect that data will come out in a week or so. That's pure prediction and speculation. But just looking at the mutations, I would expect that. And I wouldn't be surprised if there might be some erosion in vaccine effectiveness against infection. I'm more, much more optimistic that VE will be maintained against more severe disease. And a lot's based on, you know, just our recent experience with Delta. We've been privileged to work with the CDC IVY network on their VE studies. And they just had a paper in JAMA a couple weeks ago, looking at VE. And it's been preserved, you know, for months against hospitalization and other severe outcomes and against variants as well, at least in that study. So I think, you know, I wouldn't be surprised if we see similarities with Omicron. But, you know, it's going to take a while to kind of sort out VE and all these different scenarios. How it plays out in different populations, different regiments, different vaccines, different outcomes. There's going to be a lot of work to be done, but it will be interesting to watch. >> Yeah, it's not just one thing. It's different vaccines, as you know. It's -- >> Yeah. >> -- boosted, not boosted. It's the host too. >> And so, you know, which gets me, you know, Carlos, let's talk about one of the harder questions, and this is really a U.S. based question. So much of the population remains unvaccinated, and I'll share a couple of anecdotes. I actually just finished rounding, and, as you know, we're experiencing a very large surge right now in Michigan. I was rounding the last couple of weeks at Michigan Medicine, and I saw a lot of patients with severe COVID, almost all of whom were unvaccinated. Some were very, very vulnerable. You know, organ transplants, very advanced age, severe lung disease. And, you know, I have to say, earlier in the year, I would ask and really push around these issues and have more conversations. And I have to say I've gotten a bit discouraged. And, you know, I'm looking to both of you, and to, Carlos, I'll start with you. What can clinicians really do to help move individuals? To help provide good information? You know, it really feels like my own efforts have moved now toward trying to get people boosted who are already vaccinated. But we need to get first doses in people. >> Well, you know, I said early on, when boosting was first done, I kept on telling people that the boosting I need is for everybody else to get vaccinated, because that really is what we need. We need, we have to increase our vaccination. And you're absolutely right, starting a vaccination series has really flattened in our country. And we're seeing an uptake on the boosting, but we have a population that has not been vaccinated. I think they are comprised of different populations. I think the first thing is we need to realize that it's not one population; right? You have all the way from people that, you know, are anti-vaxers and are not going to get a vaccine no matter what. They're may be 5, 7 percent of the population. But then you have a large number of individuals that I think are still in the hesitant stage and the wait-and-see. A lot of them have been saying things like, well, you know, I want more experience. I want more data. I need to understand more about these vaccines. I'll take them once they've been approved. Well, I remind people that the Pfizer vaccine for people over the age of 18 now has full FDA, you know, approval. It's a BLA drug, so it's no longer under an EUA. So if you don't want an EUA vaccine and you're over 18, you can get the Pfizer vaccine. That's not a vaccine under the EUA. So sometimes I remind that to people. If they say to me, well, I don't want to get something that is still under an EUA, I remind them, well, guess what, this one is no longer an EUA. And many people look at you like they're surprised, they didn't know that. The other thing is, is I think there's a lot of people out there not getting vaccinated because, not a lack of information, but of excessive misinformation. And, therefore, combatting misinformation, I think, is critically important. We have to talk about the things that, you know, young people, many young people, this myth going around about the vaccines impact your fertility, for example. It's a big one that I hear in young individuals that don't want to get vaccinated. Or you hear about people that say, you know, it changes your DNA. Even today I had an e-mail from somebody say, you know, sent me a clip and something they saw on Facebook saying that it changes your DNA. So we have to really tackle misinformation, because misinformation is really driving a lot of people not to get vaccinated. And then we have to use opportunities like Omicron. I mean, I think during Delta, you're absolutely right, I would see people at the hospital very sick who weren't vaccinated. But I was able to talk to them and say, okay, can you please now talk to your family, who is also not vaccinated, maybe tell them it's time to get your vaccine. And you frequently would see that. So have that opportunity, use that moment. And I'm hoping that Omicron, in the midst of all this conversation, is yet another opportunity to tell people, okay, you've been waiting for vaccine, now's the time it take it. I mean, when people say, what can I do it about Omicron? I said, get vaccinated. And if you've been vaccinated, get boosted. So I think we have to keep the conversation going, but I understand what you're saying. I mean, it's not, you know, so the low hanging fruit has been taken. Right now is really the hard-to-get population. And then we also have to remember that, you know, mistrust continues to exist. I was talking to colleagues in South Africa. You know, South Africa has plenty of vaccines. They don't have a problem with having access to vaccines right now, but only 28 to 30 percent of the population is vaccinated. But a large percent of their population is not vaccinated. But then you go into history; right? They have racism. They have apartheid. They have a lot of the same reasons for vaccine hesitancy that we see in our minority populations in this country. So we need to understand that, you know, mistrust of things like the medical establishment is something developed by [inaudible] individuals is not just a U.S. phenomena. You'll see that globally. And South Africa, they're clearly seeing that. So I think we also need to do more research and put more efforts in really trying to see how do we address vaccine hesitancy, period. >> Yeah, thank you for pointing that out. And, again, I love that you always bring us back to the global health piece. And, again, it's been interesting for me, you know, just, again, anecdotes, where patients who I followed for years, you know, when we have a long discussion in clinic, if they at least leave saying, okay, I'll think about it. Because they do end up, you know, they do have trust in me. And I try to leverage that, but, you know, it does become a bit exhausting. And the misinformation, it's really challenging to get at it. You know, when people talk about, well, someone was diagnosed with cancer after getting vaccinated, it's very hard to sometimes change that perception. So I guess we still have work to do, and I know our audience here includes a lot of frontline clinicians. So I guess keep at it. Keep having those conversations. >> And, you know, I would also say that we have to also get, held our politicians accountable. There's been many politicians that have actively spread misinformation and have fuelled it. And if they haven't fueled it, at least they haven't counteracted. And we really have to hold people accountable and say, you know, we really need, as a nation, to come together. This is not a partisan issue. This is not a Republican or a Democratic issue. This is a human issue. And we all need to come together to end this virus. And I think, you know, what I would see, probably to me the most difficult thing in this pandemic is how it has divided us as opposed to united us. You know, one of the things that was, that has been wonderful in working with HIV is how we have become, you know, working together has been the answer. And we've all come together. And I see, you know, for example, in HIV, you know, PEPFAR has always had bipartisan support. Ryan White has always had bipartisan support. So when we come together, we can achieve great things. And I think we need to also, in COVID, achieve, you know, get there and try to understand that this is not an issue of partisanship. This is really an issue of health and national security. >> Yeah, thank you. And I tend to talk a lot about economics and academics. In that, if you get sick, you're going to miss school, you're going to miss work. That these are big issues, it's not just an inconvenience. But I think we have lots of work to do, and, you know, hopefully, we will make progress in this regard. Because I think, the beginning of the pandemic, we were all in this together. And, you know, somehow the last couple years have been difficult. So, Adam, I feel like we should touch base on flu a bit. You know, last year we talked a lot about the twin-demic. And, you know, luckily there wasn't a lot of flu, you know, partly because people were home. They weren't in school. They weren't working. They were wearing masks. You know, this year we're expecting more flu and lots of flu potentially. And now, again, this was your work long before COVID. I'd love to get your thoughts and, you know, maybe if you have a prediction or if you've learned anything recently that might help us get through a tough flu season? >> Well, I think the twin-demic is here. Certainly, you know, our experience here at the University of Michigan, it's been reported. We had a significant, you know, flu outbreak here that's waned, but ongoing, you know, over November. So there's a lot of flu out there. There's a lot of virus, period, out there. I think, so that is going to, I think, tax our health system in a perhaps predictable, perhaps unpredictable way in terms of what it's going to do to have both these viruses circulating, causing illnesses, disrupting daily life. In terms of what to expect with flu, in particular. So what we've had here thus far in Michigan has been H3N2. And we've, through this outbreak, we've learned about the virus that's circulating. And so it is a little bit different from what's in the vaccine. It's, but it's more similar to what's in the southern hemisphere vaccine that will be rolled out. So it's slightly different from what's in the northern hemisphere vaccine, but more similar to what's in the southern hemisphere vaccine for the H3N2 component. Of course, there's multiple components in the flu vaccine. And what folks are working on now is understanding what that means in terms of, you know, disease severity, in terms of vaccine effectiveness. And just as we were talking with Omicron, figuring out these sorts of things takes a lot of time and very careful study. And that's where a lot of people are putting effort right now at the same time that the same people are all working on COVID. So it's a busy time, and I think it just highlights how challenging it is to deal with both of these viruses at once. And so I think that's going to be the story of the next few months across the U.S. >> And I would just add, Adam, that from a, you know, practicing clinician perspective, the best advice we need to tell everybody is to get their flu shot. And we have to also remind people that continuing mask wearing is not a bad idea. The reason we were able to control flu last year is because we applied nonpharmacological interventions like mask wearing. So good opportunity, if I go to the grocery store, if I go to crowded settings, if I get in the subway, I'm still wearing my mask. Because the reality is, is that it is a good way to prevent respiratory viruses like influenza. >> Yeah, 100 percent, 1,000 percent. I think the lessons now are for COVID, for Delta, for Omicron, for flu, get vaccinated. Wear a mask. You know, practice these, you know, interventions that we know work. I mean, we can focus and worry about what's coming down the pike, but we have the tools, we just need to do a better job of using them. >> So we're recording this on December 1st. And as we're recording, we just got an alert that the CDC has indeed identified the first case of Omicron in the United States. And, again, this is not a surprise. This is something that we expected to see. But, Adam, Carlos, any early reactions? >> Well, I'm not surprised. If you look, you're going to find it. We're all interconnected. And I think what we've learned is that this case is already here. Again, emphasizes why travel bans make no sense. Because by the time you do the travel bans, you know, the cat's out of the bag. And we've seen this over and over, and we need to really do other things. And travel bans don't do anything necessary. And I think it's a bad reaction, and was a bad response during the Trump administration, and I said that. And it's a bad response during the Biden administration. I think we need to call it as it is. >> I think everyone, you know, suspected this was going to happen. And so I think, you know, now we know it's here. We've had the news reports, and so now it's time to keep up the work. >> So something I say a lot is that COVID is not the only risk to our health. And I, you know, this has clearly been a very, very difficult time for everyone for different reasons. I think particularly anyone who's a caregiver, essential workers, of course, healthcare workers, especially our nurses and support staff, but really everyone. And, you know, I just want to ask each of you, what, you know, you've been very immersed, very, very busy throughout the pandemic. What are you doing to take care of yourself? Adam. >> It's hard. I mean, because, you know, I think, you know, most of us in the medical community and probably a lot of your listeners feel stretched all the time and are used to working hard and used to trying to figure out that balance. And, you know, I forced myself over Thanksgiving to take time, take time off and not, and try to disengage as much as I could to spend time with my family. And I try to do that on weekends as best I can, you know, while keeping up with the pace during the week. So I think that's how I try to do it, but it's not to say it's easy. I struggle with it just as many people do. >> Carlos? >> You know, I would say that the things I do is I try to take a long walk every day and not take my cellphone with me so I can really, you know, take a long walk and not be distracted. Number two, I like listening to music. It's relaxing. And then, number three, you know, I still like, you know, a good meal, a good glass of wine. I mean, something to relax and take care of yourself. But I also will say that, besides taking care of ourselves, we need to take care of each other; right? Our colleagues. Physicians. APPs. Nurses. People we work with in the hospital. Everybody's stressed. Today I was hearing about how there's this epidemic of just grumpiness and, quite frankly, in some places being nasty; right? And we need to take a moment and say, thank you. Be kind to people. And really part of the response to the pandemic needs to be taking care of each other and being nice to each other. Because the reality is that this is not going to end any time soon. And if we don't do that, then I think we're all going to suffer personally and professionally. >> Good message. Be kind. >> Yeah. >> What are you looking forward to? And what gives you hope? >> You know, I think that science continues to be what's helping us; right? And we need to emphasize that science, support for science in this country needs to continue. And I'm happy to see the NIH budget increasing. I'm hoping to see who gets appointed as NIH director. Dr. Collins has been terrific. We need really people that work with Congress and work with the administration in funding science appropriately. Because this is how we get the answers. This is why the U.S. is a leader, and we need to continue. And then we need to continue working on bringing people into our field of infectious disease. I really think that it's a great field, and we have an opportunity to really use this pandemic to get more people excited about ID and careers in public health and microbiology and infectious disease. And what gives me hope is that, you know, I'm hoping that we all will come with lessons out of this pandemic. That probably the most important lesson out of the pandemic is that we need to address health disparities. We really need to do the things that need to be done to end health disparities. Because the reality is that this pandemic has highlighted what we have all known from HIV and from many other diseases, the enormous health disparities that exist in this country and globally. And I think a commitment to ending health disparities is important. And, you know, this year was, you know, on World AIDS Day, the theme was exactly that. It was about ending inequalities. It was about ending those enormous differences that exist. Because it's clearly critically important in order to end the pandemics of HIV, of COVID and of many other diseases that we finally address inequality. So I'm hopeful that, you know, that we begin to really take inequality seriously, and we stop talking about it and really do something about them. >> And, Adam, what gives you hope for the new year? >> I'll echo a lot of what Carlos said. And I think on a more fine grain level, I think with, we are going to get better at controlling COVID. And if you look where we were a year ago, I know it feels with Omicron that everything has started over again; right? We're talking about travel bans. We're talking about, you know, detecting the cases. But we are so much farther than we were at the beginning of the pandemic a year ago. We've got highly effective vaccines. We've got drugs coming out. Even though there's a lot of big problems to solve, we are, really have made tremendous improvements. And I think we will continue to see that over the next year. And it feels a long way away, but I think we're going to get to that magic endemic point that everyone talks about some time, maybe late 2022, but we're going to get there. We're moving in that direction. And, you know, we've outlined the challenges that lay ahead over this discussion. But I think we're moving in the right direction. So I look for more of that in the year ahead. >> So thanks for this great conversation. Lots of unknowns around Omicron, but lots of reasons for hope. The pandemic is not over, but we have the tools to control it, beginning and ending with vaccination, not just in the U.S., but really the entire world. And as we move forward, it's going to be less about preventing every single case, but preventing severe cases, preventing hospitalizations and deaths, making sure the vulnerable high-risk populations are protected by all of us also being vaccinated. Thank you so much for joining us today.