You will do two sets of 10 repetitions, right? In each set, with a 1-minute interval between each set, OK?  Oh, remember to find a comfortable spot to drink, whether sitting or standing.  If necessary, use a back support, a pillow, or a cushion.  And the feet shouldn't be dangling, right, loose in the air.  They should maintain contact with the ground while performing the seated exercises.  In this movement, you will bend your arm towards your shoulder, okay?  Move slowly, remember to breathe, and find a comfortable place.  If you are unable to touch your feet to the ground while seated, find a footrest.   In this movement, the lady will extend one leg at a time.  The lady will perform five movements for each leg, rest for one minute, and then perform five more movements for each leg.  That's the arm-opening movement , right?  Look for a place with space.  Do 10 movements.  Rest for one minute and then do 10 more movements.  Always slow down and breathe. This is the movement where you will strengthen the muscles in your leg. A hip flexion movement. Lean against a wall or a chair. Do five movements for each leg. Five climbs, right, for each leg.   After a total of 10 repetitions, rest for one minute and repeat the series of exercises.  This is a very important movement, where you will practice getting up and sitting down from a chair, bed, or armchair.  The lady can do it in two ways: without arm support, as in the video on the left, and with arm support, as in the video on the right.  Do 10 movements, rest for one minute, and then repeat again.  This is the same profile movement.  Do it slowly, always breathing, inhaling through your nose and exhaling through your mouth.  Everything is going very slowly.  This is the cervical rotation movement .  The lady will look from side to side. Count five times on each side, for a total of 10. Rest for one minute and then repeat the movement.  Either do it within your capacity, whether you can do a little less or a little more.  This is a movement of looking up and down.  Perform five movements looking upwards, five movements looking downwards.  Rest for one minute and then repeat. This is a movement to strengthen the calf muscles, a plantar flexion movement .  The lady will support herself on the tips of her toes, raising her heels.  Do 10 movements, rest for one minute, and then repeat. This is the rotational movement of the trunk. Rotate your torso to both sides, to the right and to the left.  Five times for each side.  Rest for a minute and then do another set.  Five times for each side.  Don't forget to breathe.  And remember, the exercises should be done from Monday to Friday, every day, right?  Monday to Friday. before using the electrostimulation cap.