>> I'll be showing the results of the R-GNOSIS ICU trial. I'm presenting on behalf of my colleague, Nienke Plantinga, and also on behalf of my supervisors, Professor Mark Bonten and Professor Christian Brun-Buisson. So the R-GNOSIS ICU trial was funded by the European Union and was about prevention of infections acquired in the ICU. We studied three decontamination interventions, which were SDD, selective digestive tract decontamination, which consisted of topical antibiotics applied to the oropharynx and digestive tract, SOD, selective oropharyngeal decontamination, which consisted of the mouth-based only, and chlorhexidine oral care, which is frequently applied in ICU patients, as you know. So there is quite a lot of prior evidence on SDD and SOD. We did a meta-analysis of individual patient data from six randomized studies including over 17,000 ICU admissions from ICUs with low levels of antibiotic resistance, as these are the ICUs in which most previous studies have been performed. We defined low levels of antibiotic resistance as a rate under five percent of BSI caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae. Pooled adjusted analysis showed that SDD can prevent in-hospital mortality with an odds ratio of 0.82. SOD can too with an odds ratio of 0.84, and when compared directly SDD is more effective than SOD in doing so. A previous study also showed that bacteremias can be prevented with these two strategies. The gaps in evidence, however, are that most studies were performed in settings with low levels of antibiotic resistance and there's quite a few data on settings with higher levels of antibiotic resistance, and there's a discussion of whether SDD and SOD are effective in these settings and whether they are safe, since it is thought that they might also induce antibiotic resistance in these settings. So therefore, we performed the R-GNOSIS ICU study with the aim to quantify the effects of these three interventions in European ICUs with moderate to high levels of antibiotic resistance. It was cluster-randomized cross-over study in 13 ICUs in six European countries. The standard care consisted of chlorhexidine two percent body washing in addition to the interventions that were tested later, optimized hand hygiene according to the WHO hand hygiene protocol, and oral chlorhexidine in a concentration of 0.12 and 0.2 percent in most hospitals. And after the baseline period, the interventions were implemented in each hospital in a sequential and randomized order. ICUs were eligible to participate when they had a rate of over five percent of bloodstream infections caused by ESBL Enterobacteriaceae, and patients were eligible for inclusion when they had an expected length of mechanical ventilation over 24 hours, so excluding all postoperative patients, if you will. The aim of the study was to test the effect of the interventions on the occurrence of ICU-acquired bacteremias with multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria, and as a secondary outcome, survival at day 28 of the ICU and of the hospital and unit-wide prevalence of highly resistant microorganism carriage. The intervention consisted of chlorhexidine, SOD and SDD, as said before. Chlorhexidine was a one percent oral gel applied four times daily. SOD was a mouth-based with colistin, tobramycin, and nystatin, also administered four times daily. And SDD consisted of the same mouth-based but with in addition a gastroenteral suspension with these three antibiotics. And in contrast to previous SDD regimens, cephalosporins were not part of our SDD protocol. Microbiological surveillance was performed throughout the study by taking samples from the rectum and respiratory tracts. So from study patients that were included in the study, twice weekly samples were taken from these sites and plated on ESBL-selective media to find ESBLs but also carbapenem-resistant Gram-negative bacteria. And we also performed unit-wide surveillance by sampling all patients in the ICU once monthly and then to detect ESBLs, VRE, or MRSA. So, as said, 13 hospitals were included from these countries that are listed here, and each center participated in our study for 27 months. We screened almost 33,000 patients and included 8665 in the end, which was almost 95 percent of the patients that were eligible, and the reason why patients were not included were mainly because they were not ventilated or expected to be ventilated for less than 24 hours. So these are the characteristics of the study population. I'll briefly mention that the mean age was 62 years old. The majority of patients were male, and the mean APACHE II score was 20, and the SAPS II score was about 53, with small differences of these and other characteristics over study periods for which we corrected in the analysis. So onto the outcomes and results. The primary outcome was ICU-acquired bacteremia with multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria. The crude numbers are shown here with 47 episodes of bacteremias with multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria in the baseline periods versus 26 in the SDD periods, 38 in the chlorhexidine period, and 33 in the SOD period. And after correcting for confounders, that resulted in these [inaudible] ratios with confidence intervals including one, so a nonstatistically significant outcome for our primary endpoints. If you look at bloodstream infections with any pathogen, so all Gram-negative but also Gram-positive microorganisms, of course we find more of these but also comparable [inaudible] ratios with the confidence interval including one. So SDD, SOD, and chlorhexidine had no effect on the prevention of bloodstream infections in our study. Secondary outcome of patient survival. So, you see here in this table ICU survival, hospital survival, and day 28 survival, or I should say mortality, actually. I'll focus on day 28 mortality. So in the baseline period, almost 32 percent of patients died before or at day 28, and during the SDD arm, this was 34 percent. As there were differences in the baseline characteristics, it should also correct for these [inaudible] in the following odds ratios approximating one with, well a confidence interval also including one. So, again, a nonstatistically significant result for the mortality outcome. And the same goes for ICU and hospital mortality, with comparable [inaudible] rates. The last objective was the unit-wide prevalence of highly resistant microorganism carriage. So we looked at the rectum, and these were the once monthly sampling in all study patients where there was actually no increase in the carriage of highly resistant microorganisms being Gram-negatives in the study with a prevalence of 19 percent in the baseline period and 17 percent in the SDD period. There was no increase in VRE, and for the respiratory tract, there was also slightly lower prevalence but not increase and also a nonsignificant decrease in the carriage with resistive microorganisms. So this might bring about question. Why did SDD and SOD not improve patient outcome in this study in these ICUs as compared to the previous Dutch studies. Possible explanation could be that there were higher levels, of course, of antibiotic resistance and that eradication of gut and respiratory tract flora was less effective in our study than in previous Dutch studies. In fact, these remained stable over time in patients in the ICU, while in previous Dutch studies, the carriage in the rectum and in the respiratory tract actually decreased during the interventions. And another explanation might be that there were changes in the protocol compared to Dutch studies, so there was no systemic antibiotic as part of SDD, as mentioned before, and we stopped the intervention until at the end of mechanical ventilation whilst in previous studies the interventions were continued until ICU discharge. However, we performed a sensitivity analysis, and this doesn't support the difference. So concluding, decontamination strategies with either antibiotics or chlorhexidine mouthwash did not reduce bloodstream infections either with multidrug-resistant Gram-negative bacteria nor with any pathogen and did not decrease day 28 ICU or hospital mortality when compared to standard care. And unit-wide prevalence of carriage with highly resistive microorganisms did not change during each of these interventions. This study is now also published in JAMA and freely available by the link depicted in red here, and I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the investigators that participated to the R-GNOSIS ICU study and all other persons who contributed. So, thank you very much also for your attention. [ Applause ]