from the JAMA network. This is Jamadermatology author interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in Jamadermatology. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to Thanks for joining us. I'm Dr. Dr. Aday Adamson, the web editor for Gamma Dermatology and host of this podcast episode. Psoriasis is a common chronic inflammatory skin condition characterized by red, raised, scaly plaques on the skin. Over the past two decades, we've seen an explosion of new therapies to treat this disorder with many patients experiencing skin that is free of disease because of these treatments. However, to date, there are no agreed upon definitions of remission in plaque psoriasis. In a newly published consensus statement in jamodermatology, authors convene 92 stakeholders and identify exercise to establish a consensus based definition of on treatment remission for plaque psoriasis. Dr. April Armstrong is a board-certified dermatologist, professor, and chief of dermatology at the University of California, Los Angeles. She is also chair emeritus of the National Psoriasis Foundation and she's here to discuss this consensus statement and what it means for patients, for clinicians and regulators. Welcome to the podcast, Dr. Armstrong. Thank you so much for having me, Dr. Adamson. How did you start in the world of psoriasis and uh you know, give us a little overview of your journey to then becoming the chair of the National Psoriasis Foundation? So when I started in this journey, I was in residency and I was very interested in studying skin diseases where we can contribute quite a bit epidemiologically. And at that time things that rose to the top were psoriasis or melanoma to very important diseases. And it was at a time just serendipitously there were also a lot of treatment options that were emerging. It was a time when adelimab was being studied and we really start to feel that we can do something for our patients with moderate to severe psoriasis and with further training at school of public health I really fell in love with epidemiology and clinical trials and ultimately really have focused in this disease area for a long time and as we know psoriasis patients are truly a pleasure to take care of and these days with all the tools that we have available It's really a joy to continue to take care of them. The last 20 years has been incredible in terms of the amount of new treatments, new targets, the basic science combined with the clinical trial work. Uh, you know, I was kind of surprised when I first read this paper that we hadn't established a definition of remission. How are we defining what remission is? So, remission is a really deeply meaningful and important goal for our patients. And the word remission often times I would say conjure up certain meaning among our patients and also our dermatologists. Now a few years back we had defined off treatment remission for our patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and that was defined as BSA of zero for at least one year. However, as we know that the definition of remission now may have several different ways in which the community look at this. In fact, when we first talk about on treatment remission, it was something that actually brought up a lot of conversation and a little bit of controversy as well because many people think of remission as off therapy. Because of that, we really dug into this area deeply to look at the literature. While in the past, remission is typically off treatment. What we see is that for chronic conditions, we have actually wellestablished precedence for on treatment remission such as lupus or inflammatory bowel disease. And so they really served as this model for concept of on treatment remission for benchmarking clinical success for our patients with chronic skin diseases such as psoriasis. Because of this, the National Psoriis Foundation and many of us involved with the NPF thought it would be worthwhile to really think about the definition for on treatment remission with our treatments that are available and therefore we can really think about how we can bring psoriasis into alignment with this broader standards in chronic disease management. So what I'm hearing is that there is controversy around what the meaning of remission is, right? And it can mean you're on medicine and you have no disease. It can mean you're off medicine and you have no disease. But I guess we know plaque psoriasis is a chronic condition and patients are on some of these therapies long term. So that definition had to be defined in the context of on treatment. Absolutely. That yep that's exactly right and I think it's being defined and we defined it also to be used for both clinical trials and real world clinical practice as well. I think that is one of the most important things in coming up with these kind of consensus statements because they then help guide endpoints for trials when patients can feel like they are you know in remission when clinicians themselves or dermatologists or whomever is taking care of these folks can say hey you're in remission we're here this is the definition in this study you got together 92 stakeholders I do research as well in 92 people from various disciplines together seems like a pretty herculean effort. Do you mind describing that process, who those stakeholders were and why you selected them? So, we used this multi-stage deli process that involved stakeholders from a variety of different fields. Dermatologists, rheumatologists who take care of seroriatic diseases. We had researchers, we had patients, we also have payers and other life science professionals. And we intentionally wanted to include this diverse mix of perspectives. And the reason for that is that we want to make sure that our definition would be feasible and meaningful to these various different stakeholders. So we're really thinking about in the development stage the feasibility such that it can be used and implemented later on. And I will say importantly this was a multi-stage deli process and we had the systematic review. We had the pre-defi interviews and surveys and then two rounds of deli consensus building and these various stakeholders had participated in different components of this deli process. What was the principal challenge in going about conducting this research? Was it just getting everyone in alignment? Was there a lot of disagreement about what remission is and is not? That's a great question. I think the main challenge is actually as it turned out is having people think about on treatment remission as a concept because people are so used to thinking about off treatment remission. What I was surprised at was how unified these various stakeholders are in terms of thinking about the actual components of the definition. For example, BSA of zero and by BSA you mean body surface area. Correct. Yes. Yes. So body surface area that's involved being zero or IG of zero which means clear especially our patients. Our patients really wanted to have no disease as a very important key aspect of the definition. Were there any elements of patient input into the deli process that surprised you or maybe didn't surprise you? How did you find these patients that were involved in the deli process? I always find it really intriguing when patients are a part of the research and effort. Can you tell us a little bit about that? Yes, absolutely. So we have patient affiliates who are part of the national psoriasis foundation and also I myself as the principal investigator for this study also have patients that I care for as well. So we essentially first cast a w net asking if any patients would be interested in this study and many patients had responded enthusiastically that they could be potentially interested. Then we tell them a little bit about the effort that's required and a lot of this is involved in the interview stage. We conduct interviews with our patients to get their perspective and that's a pretty involved process where we use some qualitative methods to really gather their input and analyze their input. And I think what resonated with me was that they really wanted to have no disease at all. and having even little disease is often times a reminder of the larger disease or more severe disease of a time that they had. So this was very impactful and also many of them spoke about if their disease occurred in areas that are high impact for example the face or the areas that's typically not covered by clothing how that can be very stressful for them. So I think all that data have been extremely helpful and really helped informed our deli process. It sounds like it is also is a reminder of the psychological impact of psoriasis and that even if you have little disease depending on where it is that it could also be just as impactful as maybe having a larger body surface area. Absolutely. So you did the deli process, right? You got all the stakeholders together. What did you find? what at the end of the day became the definition that you arrived on on what it means to have on treatment remission. So after a multi-year process actually we came up with this definition at the very end of the deli process is that the on treatment remission in plaque psoriasis is now defined as patients maintaining 0% body surface area involvement or having an investigator global assessment or IGA score of zero which is clear while on treatment for at least 6 months. So this definition is important. It has a few components to it. The key thing really to remember is that they are clear of psoriasis and for at least 6 months to qualify for this on treatment remission for plaque psoriasis and they can be on treatment while maintaining that clearance. I did want to talk a little bit about some additional applications of the definition in that if for example they are able to maintain BSA of zero or IG of zero which is clear for longer period of time for example they may maintain it for one year or longer then they can have the one year on treatment remission for example but however to qualify in the first place for on treatment remission they have to be clear for at least 6 months so they can do later one year or two-year on treatment remission and then those definitions can be extended from the originator definition as long as the clinicians or researchers specify that. What kind of implications does this have for your dermatologist, you know, who's in practice out there? Like how does that affect their decisions or how does it affect pharmaceutical clinical trials? What do you think the implications of arriving at this consensus and putting it out there in the world as something that should potentially be used? So, this definition I think offers a standardized benchmark for our dermatologists and other dermatology clinicians really think about how we can talk to our patients about remission. And when you have a patient who's been clear for example for at least six months this patient will have achieved on treatment remission and how we can maintain that and what the future looks like is something that you can discuss with our patients. So we have this standardized benchmark now to think about whether a patient has achieved deep treatment success with the therapies that they have. Now the second part that's important in terms of application about this definition is for clinical trials. As we know clinical trials can support regulatory and payer decisions and having a standardized definition is extremely important such that when one trial talks about on treatment remission now we hopefully will have a uniform definition that another clinical trial when they use this definition we can now really think about how to look at the two trials in the same context. So it really provides a concrete outcome measure, a goal that clinical trials can be designed to achieve with the therapies or evaluating how the therapies can achieve that goal in languages that are uniform and understandable by regulatory bodies as well as by our payers so that they can think about how to support our patients with regards to achieving this on treatment remission. And I would say it's also a testament to the fact that the biologics and the drugs that we're giving patients are now so good that people can be completely clear. Hence us needing these kind of definitions of on treatment remission and success. So I think that's also a great story. But where do you go from here? We have this definition. Is that the end of the story or are there other areas we need to focus on? I don't know maybe other patient reported outcomes related to psoriasis maybe those need to be better standardized what's next on the horizon yes that's a great question Dr. Adamson, I think that as a field there are some additional efforts that's looking at what the role of biomarkers and patient reported outcomes are in terms of thinking about their place when we define deep treatment success. While we thought about these different elements as well when we were doing this particular exercise, I think these efforts will be future efforts where we really think about other elements that may not be incorporated in the current definition and how they can be used particularly in clinical trials. April, I want to thank you so much for being on this podcast. Thank you so much, Ad. I am Dr. Aday Adamson. I've been speaking with Dr. April Armstrong about defining on treatment remission for patients with plaque psoriasis. You can find a link to the paper in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at thejeet network. To follow this and other Jamma Network podcast, please visit us online at jametworkaudio.com or search for Jamma Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you for listening. We'll catch you on the next episode of the Jamama Dermatology podcast. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.