 and alfalfa. From the JAMA network, this is JAMA Surgery Author Interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews and opinions featured in JAMA Surgery. Hello and welcome to JAMA Surgery Author Interviews. I am your host, Dr. Jamie Coleman. Today we will be discussing a fantastic review article and we are here with Dr. Christian D. Virgilio, the Senior Author of Diagnosis and Management of Hemo-Dialysis Access Complications, a review. Dr. D. Virgilio is the Chair of the Department of Surgery at Harper UCLA Medical Center and a member of the editorial board for JAMA Surgery. Thank you so much for joining us. Well, thank you so much, Dr. Coleman. It's really a pleasure to be here today and appreciate your interest in our article. Well, to remind our listeners, over 500,000 Americans are dependent upon hemodialysis with really over 100,000 starting HD each year. And in order to receive hemodialysis, as we all know, a patient has got to have access for it and with that access can come complications. And your review article really stuck out to me because not only is it a must read for surgeons and surgery residents, but also for our primary care and emergency medicine colleagues who encounter these complications routinely. And so before we even get to treatment strategies, I'd really like us to focus on the four main complications and how can we distinguish between them. So to start, could you describe access related hand ischemia? We also commonly call it steel syndrome. Yes, absolutely. And when you think about access related hand ischemia, it really is essentially a lack of blood to the hand. And this occurs as a result of creating a fistula, which essentially diverts blood away from the hand. The thing that's really tricky about it is that it can be easily confused with other diagnoses. And that's one of the important reasons why we've come up with this article. So patients with access related hand ischemia or steel typically will present with either coolness in the hand, a painful hand. And on exam, you will notice that there's an absence of a pulse. The hand may appear pale. The capillary refill will be diminished. And importantly, one of the things that you can do is compress the fistula. And then once you do that, you'll see that the hand typically will then become pinker. The capillary refill will improve. And so this is the first step sort of in the diagnosis. And I think that's a critical thing to mention, right? Because we always worry about acute lemeschemia. So you mentioned compressing the fistula that can help distinguish anything else that you want to tell our colleagues who are seeing these patients, who are presenting to them, and makes everybody nervous when we start seeing, you know, a cold or a pulseless hand. Absolutely. And I think some of the important other features are obviously listening with the Doppler to see if you can hear Doppler signals with compression of the fistula. You should hear an augmentation of those Doppler signals. Initially, the Doppler signal might be what we call monophasic. And then upon compression, you might hear a multi phasic signal. But as you mentioned, I think the important thing is that there are some other important diagnoses such as rarely acute lemeschemia. And distinguishing between steel and acute lemeschemia can be very tricky. One of the key features would be that there would be a complete absence of a pulse and typically no Doppler signals in the hand. And despite your attempts at compression of the fistula, there will be no improvement in the appearance of the hand. And I think that would be one of the key elements, as well as obtaining studies such as a duplex scan to assess whether there's any flow in the hand. I think that's such a great distinction. And two of the other complications that you mentioned in the article, Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, Anischemic Monomelic Neuropathy, also present similarly, and that patients typically will present with pain and peristegias. How can clinicians best distinguish between these? That's a really great question. And it's really can be very challenging to make that distinction. In addition, it's really critical that you are able to distinguish ischemic monomelic neuropathy early. And the reason is that if you don't detect it early, the sequela can become irreversible. One of the ways to try to tell this apart is that ischemic monomelic neuropathy typically occurs immediately after the dialysis axis, typically within hours. And patients will come in with pain in the hand and the forearm that can be quite severe. And importantly, there will be a polyneuropathy present. In other words, there will be deficits in the nerves across all nerves in the hand, including the median, the ulnar, and the radial. So typically that patient will come in with a painful forearm, as well as numbness and weakness in the hand, typically, again, just hours after the access procedure. And in that instance, the other thing that is maybe confusing to the practitioner is that the hand itself may not actually look ischemic. In other words, the hand may appear pink and well perfused, despite the fact that there is this major neurologic deficit. And that's sort of the clue that something else more dangerous is going on. The other thing to be aware of is that nowadays a lot of patients are undergoing dialysis axis with a nerve block. And patients then might go home with persistent numbness and weakness in the hand from the nerve block. So it's important to educate the patient after the block that if they have symptoms that aren't going away, such as numbness or weakness, they should immediately return to the ED for evaluation. That's a really great point because you're right. I think a lot of us, you've got a patient who's immediately postoperative. And of course, we always think bleeding or lack of blood flow. And so I think it's really good that you highlighted this because just because you have a pulse doesn't mean there isn't a problem. And even going back for a second with the access related hand ischemia, that can be a technical complication in origin. Can you walk us through a little bit the surgical techniques that surgeons need to keep in mind when they're creating these fistulas to try and prevent as best as we can this complication? Yes, that's a great point. And I think number one, if you can create a fistula at the wrist, typically the radiosephalic fistula, those have a much lower rate of access related ischemia. If that's not an option, then obviously you'd have to go to the brachial artery where the risk of this complication varies, but maybe as high as 4 to 8%. And in those cases, my own preference is to be cautious and not making a very large arteriotomy. In the past, we might make an arteriotomy of 6 or 7 millimeters, but I tend to make it more around 4 or 5 millimeters. In addition, one needs to recognize that when you create a graft, the risk of this complication is higher, particularly in the early postoperative phase. So you need to be mindful of not making a very large arteriotomy in these cases. I think it's also important to highlight here that not all access related hand ischemia or not all steel syndrome is the same. In other words, there are grades to this in terms of severity, ranging from zero meaning asymptomatic up to three, which includes tissue loss. And that really comes into play when we start talking about management, and that's really where I want to dig in a little bit with you. Another reason the listeners, you guys got to check out this article is this fantastic, very clear management flow sheet that is included in the article. And I'd love to walk through, if possible, Dr. D. Virgilio. Let's say I've got a patient, they've been on hemodialysis for over a year, and they come in with symptoms that I think are consistent with steel. In other words, they've got pain and peristegias are kind of in the fingertips. Maybe they're starting to have some weakness in the hand, but it definitely gets worse with exertion, worse with dialysis. And we see that phenomenon of I compressed that AV fistula and all of a sudden our symptoms get better. Let's walk through a little bit of where I'm supposed to start with this patient. And obviously, a little bit is the physical exam. But do you want to walk me through as a vascular surgeon yourself, how you approach this patient? Yes. So I think the first thing is that you need to assess the severity of the steel, as you mentioned. Is it something that is happening just intermittently, intermittently during dialysis? Or is it something that's resulting in constant pain all day? Or even worse, are they developing tissue loss? So as a general rule, if the patient has evidence of tissue loss, a non-healing ulcer, a wound, or if they're having constant pain in the hand, those are typically indications to proceed with the workup. If on the other hand, the patient says that, well, I intermittently get some pain or numbness in the hand during dialysis, then generally that can be observed or watched. There's a little bit of a gray zone because some patients will say that, oh, I'm only getting it during dialysis, but the pain is becoming, and numbness is becoming unbearable. And in those cases, similarly, those have been indication to proceed to a workup. So then at that point, if you feel that this is severe enough to proceed, we would then recommend non-invasive testing. And that takes on several forms. One, you get a duplex scan, and on the duplex scan, you can see retrograde or flow reversal going from the distill artery up into the fistula, in some cases. In addition, you can obtain non-invasive waveforms that can demonstrate dampened flow or dampened waveform in the fingers of that hand, which improve with compression. In addition, one can even measure pressures in the digits and compare the pressure in the digits of the ischemic hand versus the non-ischemic hand. So a comparison of the two hands in terms of the non-invasive testing, and then a comparison with and without compression of the fistula are part of the diagnosis. And I think it's important here, then, you do this non-invasive testing. You're doing your duplex, maybe even do an angiogram. But then where the stenosis occurs also matters, correct, in terms of whether it's proximal or distal on the artery. Yes, I think that is really important. I should also add that certain neuropathies that need to come into play and need to be ruled out as well. And what adds to the confusion is that on occasion, the patient can have both steel and a neuropathy at the same time. So part of the work up also is that if there are any nerve deficits or numbness, then obtaining studies to rule out nerve conduction studies to rule out neuropathies is important as well as part of that work up. But back to your question, what you really want to do then is determine if there's any evidence of proximal stenosis in the artery, meaning stenosis proximal to the fistula. And so typically an angiogram is recommended because if there is a proximal stenosis, such as in the subclavian or in the proximal axillary artery, that can undergo an endovascular intervention. And that alone may then solve the steel issue. If on the other hand there is no additional problem in the proximal arterial tree, then at that point the management depends on whether this is a fistula at the radial artery or a fistula at the brachial artery. And if it's a distal radial cephalic fistula, somewhat counterintuitively, the treatment can be simply to ligate the radial artery distal to the fistula. The way to explain that is that if the ulnar artery is dominant and patent, the blood, rather than going from the ulnar artery down into the fingers, bypasses the fingers, goes through the arch, and then goes retrograde up the fistula, up the radial artery. So that's why ligating the radial artery in that situation can solve the steel problem. But as I mentioned, it's important before you embark on ligating the radial artery that you have demonstrated a patent ulnar artery and a patent pulmar arch. Finally, if the fistula is a brachial-based fistula, we have found that it is important and helpful to determine if it's what we call a high-flow fistula or a low-flow fistula, because the management may differ a little bit depending on those two types of fistula. And what's the best way to determine whether it's a high-flow fistula or a low-flow fistula? Yes, and so that can be done on a duplex scan. However, the practitioner needs to be aware that you have to specifically request an order that study, because otherwise the standard duplex scan will just give you flow velocities. It won't actually calculate the actual volume of flow in the fistula. Thank you so much. These are all such important techniques and reminders for when we're managing the hundreds of thousands of patients here in the United States who need hemodialysis access. Dr. D. Virgilio, thank you so much for joining me today to discuss your review article on the diagnosis and management of hemodialysis access complications. Our listeners can find a link to the article in this episode's description. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Daniel Moro at the JAMA Network. Thanks for listening. Have a great day, everyone.