 and alfalfa. From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Clinical Reviews, interviews and ideas about innovations in medicine, science, and clinical practice. Hello, and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to the JAMA Clinical Reviews podcast. Thanks for being here. I'm Dr. David Seimel, JAMA Associate Editor and Professor Emeritus of Medicine at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Deake University. In this podcast, we will be discussing volume overload. I'm joined today by Dr. Alan Lyles, who is a professor of medicine at the University of Utah. Dr. Lyles is the senior author of our Rational Clinical Examination article on volume overload, which appears in the February 23, 2026 edition of JAMA. Dr. Lyles, thank you for joining us today. It's really my pleasure, Dr. Seimel. I appreciate it. I'm a frequent listener to the podcast, so this is a real treat. Let's get started because volume overload is really common and we've got a lot to talk about. From a broad lens that looks at, say, emergency patients or hospitalized patients, just how prevalent is volume overload? This is something that clinicians struggle with pretty much daily in practice. Like you said, it depends on the setting, the patient complaint. What we found in our review is that in particular, most of the articles we found looked at patients presenting with dyspnea to the emergency department. The prevalence of volume overload in that population was variable, anywhere from 30% to 80%. In the hospitalized patients and ICU patients, a little bit more prevalence of volume overload, anywhere from 40% to a little more than 80%. With that kind of high prevalence, clinicians in the emergency room and in inpatient settings are either explicitly or implicitly evaluating patients for volume overload pretty frequently. Let's review the symptoms of volume overload. Sure. Like I said, patient population is a big deal in what they're presenting with. The most common presenting symptom we found in our review was dyspnea, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing. Patients will also complain of difficulty sleeping, in particular, recombinces or thopnea. Patients will talk about the pillows they use, the number of pillows, or even sleeping upright and recliner. They'll talk about swelling or edema, things not fitting anymore, and weight gain. In my practice, I really come to rely on this if I can get in touch with a primary care physician or an in-state renal patient, their dialysis center, and find out their dry weight or a baseline weight, but weight change or weight gain. It's a big symptom folks will complain about. What about the signs? What you see on that being at the bedside is the outcome of all of this. It's called edema, and definitely it's a dependent and kind of ascends the body. Most commonly, the ankles are sending up to the legs or other dependent areas. You'll look at the great veins of the neck, so the internal jugular vein assessing for jugular venous distension, and listen for crackles on that sand. Well, a lot of people actually do have swelling of the legs. How useful is the presence of lower extremity edema for identifying the patient who may have volume overload? The peripheral edema, as we looked at it in our literature review, had greater specificity than sensitivity. Meaning if it was present, it helped you rule in volume overload. The absence of peripheral edema wasn't as powerful in terms of ruling out volume overload. One of the things we still use our stethoscope for is to listen to the lungs. Tell me about the role of the presence of crackles when we auscultate the lungs, and on chest radiographs when we see pulmonary congestion. These are important aspects. Listening the lung and listening for crackles, these pops as people inspire, similarly had a relatively high specificity, but a lower sensitivity. The presence was helpful in confirming a pretest probability of volume overload, but the absence of crackles was not as helpful in ruling it out. One thing with looking at the chest x-ray in our review, vascular congestion, so sephalization of vessels, curly B-lines, parabonculic cuffing, was actually very highly specific, not as sensitive, but this was one of the tests that in our review we found was very helpful in suggesting volume overload. The absence of it was not as helpful in ruling it out. A person can have volume overload, even with no adventitial sounds heard on chest auscultation, and the absence of venous congestion on the chest x-ray. Your review suggested that this is the setting where a brain-naturitic peptide, or BNP, can have a really useful role. Tell us about how to use the BNP. Sure. So, brain-naturitic peptide is a hormone secreted by cardiac myocytes in response to stretching, which is caused by increased ventricular blood volume. Using the studies we reviewed, and with a cutoff point of about 100 nanograms per milliliter, there was a very strong negative likelihood ratio at normal, and similarly, a good positive likelihood ratio for helping identify volume overload if the test was abnormal. With the combination of the presence of vascular congestion on chest x-ray, a positive or an elevated BNP was very helpful in identifying volume overload, and certainly the negative likelihood ratio of a normal brain-naturitic peptide level was very helpful in ruling it out. One of the things that concerns people who order BNPs to assess volume overload is the value in patients who are quite obese. Can you go over that for us and how that should affect our interpretation of the BNP? The two difficulties we found in the literature review, one was just, it's not real time. At the bedside, it's not part of the examination you can use in real time, and it can be experienced in different body types. So a morbidly obese patient, these values and what I was just talking about in terms of how valuable it can be in ruling out volume overload may not be as accurate in obese patients. One of the things we need to talk about is the emergence of a relatively new tool in the physical examination, and that's the use of ultrasound bioclinicians at the bedside. In your review, you looked at the role of bedside ultrasound to better assess the jugular veins, to evaluate the inferior vena cava collapsibility, and to detect pulmonary B-lines. So let's go over those and how you actually do the test and use the results. Sure. In fact, I could just start with it really is becoming a tool that's available at the bedside. Not just the cost is coming down, but the size is making it so that there are portable ultrasound devices and even handheld devices. Teaching the use of point of care ultrasound or COCUS training is getting integrated into residency and med school curricula. I'll talk about the jugular vein or a focus of jugular vein to start with. As I conceptualize this, the use of focus at the bedside looking for the ultrasound jugular venous distension or ultrasound jugular venous pressure is essentially an aided or a direct way to visualize that meniscus that you're looking for on surface anatomy. And it really allows for the assessment of the JVP in a wider variety of body types, of course, through the visual inspection. There's a variety of techniques and one thing to talk about initially is just that they're different probes and for superficial structures, a high frequency probe delivers the highest resolution or gets the best images of superficial structure. So a linear probe is used to look at the jugular vein. And again, similar when you're just doing surface anatomy, you want your patient semi-recombit about 30 to 45 degrees. You take that linear high frequency probe, place it parallel to the floor and starting at the clavicle with the neck and cross section, typically the marker is to the left of the patient in between the two bellies of the sternoclonal mastoid, you identify the jugular vein and the carotid. And from there, you want to trace up the neck looking for the point at which jugular vein is similar in size to the carotid and collapses with respiration. That collapsing point is your meniscus. So the height of that meniscus relative to the sternal angle plus the five some meters down to the right atrium is your jugular venous distention. One other technique that I like to use is you can rotate that probe 90 degrees, suffer lab and you can look at the jugular vein and longitudinal axis and actually see the steeple kind of phenomenon from the meniscus. And again, identifying that point and the height of that point from the sternal angle in your jugular venous pressure. Using that technique, what studies have shown is that the UJBP greater than or less than eight centimeters has very good sensitivity and specificity. And this is probably the most accessible, in my opinion, focus exam just in terms of ease, availability and development of proficiency. The next exam to talk about would be looking for B lines and the lung tracheobite. And B lines essentially are signs of an interstitial syndrome. B lines are reverberations you see in the ultrasound field due to thickened structures. So again, you can have thickened interstitia from edema, from purulence, from fibrosis, from a multitude of things, but in the right clinical setting, this is very helpful for identifying volume overload or pulmonary edema. The B lines themselves, what they look like on the ultrasound field, I describe them as search lights originating from the pleura and extending through the ultrasound field to the bottom of the screen. Other folks describe them as fright comet-like structure that wave back and forth in the screen with respiration. A single B line can be normal, can be not a pathologic finding in a ultrasound image. However, it's thought that three or more B lines are pathologic. And typically what you do is you divide the thorax into eight zones, four and each can be thorax, the upper and a lower anterior and upper and a lower lateral. And you take the ultrasound probe and for this exam, you want to use a low frequency probe such as the phased array or folks refer to it as the cardiac probe or a curvilinear probe to get better resolution deeper into structures. So a low frequency, the phased array probe is favored because it'll fit into the intercostal space and you will avoid the rib shadowing. You might see with the curvilinear probe, but looking in intercostal spaces in each zone, in the cutoff or the positive exam we found in our literature review was the presence of three or more B lines and two or more zones bilaterally. In what was interesting, there was excellent specificity in a very high sensitivity. This was very helpful in ruling out pulmonary edema, but also had a very good positive likelihood ratio for ruling in pulmonary edema. And the last exam to talk about on the focus would be the inferior vena cava. In my opinion, this is part of the focus exam that probably takes the most repetition and can still be impacted significantly by body habits, but again, repetitions and practice will help develop proficiency. And again, you want to use a low frequency probe for deeper penetration. You want your patient supine, you can ask the patient in their knees to kind of soften up the abdomen. You want to find the caboatrial junction. And so you start some cyphoid a centimeter or two to the right and longitudinal axis with the marker of the probe self allowed. You use the liver as an acoustic window and you're again trying to find that junction between the inferior vena cava and the right atrium. You can sometimes track the hepatic vein as it empties into the inferior vena cava to help you identify where that junction is. When you identify that junction two centimeters to that is the point to measure the inferior vena cava. And there are two criteria that we found in our literature review, an absolute diameter of the inferior vena cava and the collapsibility index. The collapsibility index being more consistently reported on and more literature supporting its use. And the way to use that is you want to find the maximum diameter with expiration of the inferior vena cava and you want to compare that to the minimum diameter with a quick inhalation. So you ask the patient to take a sniff while you're doing the exam and that collapsibility index is the percent change between the maximum and the minimum. Fifty percent being the cutoff. A inferior vena cava that is more than fifty percent collapsible suggests uvelemia. A inferior vena cava that will not collapse fifty percent suggesting uvelemia overload. M mode can be very helpful. The machine will calculate this difference or help you see this difference if you put the M mode cursor at that two centimeter mark distal to the capable way to a junction. And again there's very good sensitivity and specificity with this. So Dr. Lyles I have a feeling that explaining how to do these tests actually takes longer than doing the test itself for an experienced examiner. How quickly could an experienced examiner do these three tests? As you become comfortable doing these tests and as you become better at it, doing all three of these tests is really just a ten to fifteen minute endeavor. This is something that our team at the University of Utah offers for rotating teams, hospital teams to go around and do this to help guide diuresis volume management. That sort of thing. One aspect if I can just expand on this a little bit is this was a limitation we found in our literature review that we try to incorporate all of this. What the entirety of the focus exam looks like and we have good data on each individual aspect but there's not great literature to guide the incorporation of all these aspects of the organic exam. Well Dr. Lyles is there anything else you would like our listeners to know about the examination and assessment of patients for volume overload? The encouragement I would leave is developing proficiency as repetitions and practice in particular with focus as it's become more available and more audible. This would be something I would encourage folks to include in their bedside evaluation of patients. Well I am Dr. David Simel and I've been speaking with Dr. Allen Lyles about volume overload. You can find a link to the article and accompanying videos that show the performance of the focus examinations in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Daniel Mucisi at the JAMA Network. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with All Rights Reserved including those for text and data mining, AI training and similar technologies.