Hi, this is Arshad Khanani. On behalf of the investigators and authors of the STAIRWAY study, it's my pleasure to present this data. Before we discuss the STAIRWAY trial, I want to address the biggest unmet need in neovascular AMD. We know that anti-VEGF treatments have been the first line of care for the treatment of neovascular AMD for over a decade. However, the response to therapy is heterogeneous, and no reliable biomarkers exist to predict which patients may sustain vision with fewer injections. As a result, frequent office visits are required to assess the need for reinjection. Moreover, studies of real-world practice patterns highlight gaps in visual acuity outcomes between clinical practice and clinical trials, as patients in clinical practice receive fewer injections than patients in randomized clinical trials. Low injection frequency in clinical practice correlates with suboptimal outcomes and a significant loss of vision over time. The need for frequent office visits and injections required to maintain vision gains places a significant treatment burden on patients, caregivers, healthcare providers, and society. Therefore, we need to continue to investigate additional pathways beyond anti-VEGF to treat patients with neovascular AMD. The Ang/Tie2 pathway is critical for normal and pathological angiogenesis. The Ang/Tie2 signaling is essential for normal vascular development and hemostasis. Ang1 signaling through the Tie2 receptor promotes vascular stability. Ang2 blocks Ang1-mediated activated of Tie2, resulting in inflammation and vascular destabilization, including leakage and neovascularization. Ang2 levels are increased under pathological conditions, resulting in pericyte drop out, recruitment of inflammatory cytokines, and increased VEGF sensitivity. Together Ang2 and VEGF-A drive angiogenesis information, vascular instability, and leakage. Faricimab is the first bispecific antibody that has been designed for intraocular use. It simultaneously and independently binds and neutralizes Ang2 and VEGF-A with high specificity and potency. The FC portion was specifically engineered to reduce systemic exposure and reduce the potential for inflammatory side effects. Simultaneous utilization of Ang2 and VEGF-A has demonstrated additive benefits in preclinical models of choroidal neovascularization. In patients with neovascular AMD, Ang2 and VEGF-A utilization is hypothesized to contribute to a sustained effect on efficacy as a consequence of extended durability. Here's the design of the STAIRWAY study. STAIRWAY was a phase-two, multicenter, randomized, controlled clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and durability of faricimab in patients with neovascular AMD over 52 weeks. STAIRWAY was designed to assess extended dosing and evaluated faricimab dosed at 16- and 12-week intervals, following initiation in patients with neovascular AMD, compared with monthly ranibizumab. Patients were randomized to receive faricimab, 6 milligrams, dosed every 16 weeks, faricimab 6 milligrams dosed every 12 weeks, or monthly ranibizumab, 0.5 milligrams. Looking at the disease activity in the STAIRWAY study at week 24, 12 weeks after the last loading dose, disease activity was assessed using six per-protocol defined criteria, based on changes in CSD and BCVA, as well as any other disease activity based on investigator opinion. Patients randomized to the faricimab every-16-week flex arm, who did not have disease activity at week 24, continued on the 16-week-interval treatment through study end, while patients with active disease at week 24 received treatment every 12 weeks through study end. Patients in the faricimab 16-week flex arm, therefore, included both patients who after the initial four monthly doses continued on the once-every-16-weeks regimen through study end, as well as those who receive faricimab every 12 weeks, from week 24, due to active disease detected at that time point. Patients with no week-24 vision assessment were not considered to have active disease at week 24. At week 24, nearly 2/3 of all faricimab-treated patients had no disease activity and had the potential for once every 16-week dosing. If you look at the enrollment in the study, 76 patients were randomized in one-to-two-two fashion, into the ranibizumab 0.5 milligrams every four weeks, faricimab 6 milligrams every 12 weeks, and faricimab 6 milligrams every 16 weeks flex treatment arms. Only one eye was chosen as the study eye. Five patients were excluded from all analysis due to GCP noncompliance at a single site. If you look at the patient demographics and ocular characteristics, the baseline characteristics were generally well balanced across treatment arms in the STAIRWAY study. The average age for all patients was 78.5 years, and 58% of patients were female. There were small differences in baseline BCVA and CST, due to small sample size. For example, difference of five letters between the faricimab every 16 weeks flex arm and the monthly ranibizumab every-four-week arm. Also, difference of 61 microns between faricimab every 16 weeks flex arm and the monthly ranibizumab arm. Here are the results. The vision gains with faricimab q.16-week flex and q.12 weeks were comparable with monthly gold-standard ranibizumab. At the primary and point of week 40, faricimab treatment in every-16-week flex and every-12-week regimen resulted in meaningful vision gains that are comparable to ranibizumab fixed monthly treatment. At week 52, the adjusted mean BCVA change from baseline was plus 9.6 letters, plus 10.1 letters, and plus 11.4 letters for the monthly ranibizumab, faricimab every 12 weeks, and faricimab every 16-week flex arms, respectively. Assessed as a secondary end point, the proportion of patients gaining 15 or more ETDRS letters from baseline at week 52 was 37.5%, 33.3%, and 46.4% for the monthly ranibizumab versus faricimab every 12 weeks and faricimab every-16-weeks flex arm, respectively. If you look at anatomy, the anatomic outcomes, as assessed by SDOCT and fluorescein angiography, at week 40 and 52 support the visual acuity outcomes in the STAIRWAY trial. The CSU reductions achieved with faricimab every 16 weeks flex and every 12 weeks were comparable with monthly ranibizumab. The adjusted mean change in CST from baseline at week 52 was minus 129.9, minus 138.5, and minus 122.5 microns for the monthly ranibizumab, compared to faricimab every 12 weeks and faricimab every 16 weeks flex arm, respectively. If you look at the change in CNV leakage and lesion area, at week 52, change from baseline in total lesion area was minus 4.5, minus 5.4, and minus 4.2 millimeters square compared, respectively, for the monthly ranibizumab versus faricimab every 12 weeks and faricimab every-16-week flex arms. At week 52, change from baseline in area of total lesion leakage was minus 5.3, minus 5.6, minus 4.6 millimeters square respectively for the monthly ranibizumab versus faricimab q.12 weeks and faricimab q.16-week flex arms. Safety is crucial for a new molecule. Looking at the key ocular and non-ocular AEs in the STAIRWAY study, the safety analysis population included all randomized patients, excluding five patients from a single site due to GCP compliance, as stated earlier, who received at least one dose of the study treatment withdrawn from the study or not. Approximately 3/4 of patients experienced at least one AE, 81.3 for monthly ranibizumab, 75% for every 12 weeks, and 74.2% for every 16-week flex arms. Overall, 39.4% of patients experienced and ocular AE in the study eye. There were no serious ocular AEs in the study eye or fellow eye; 60.5% of patients experienced at least one non-ocular AE, but none were considered related to study treatment. No AEs were reported that led to the discontinuation of treatment. Three patients experienced AEs with a fatal outcome due to either ischemic stroke in the faricimab every-12-weeks arm, sepsis in faricimab every 16-week flex arm, or metastatic neoplasm, faricimab every 16-week flex arm. None were considered There were no cases of endophthalmitis in the study. Overall, faricimab was well tolerated, and there were no new or unexpected safety events observed in STAIRWAY. The observed safety profile of faricimab in STAIRWAY was comparable with the safety profile reported in patients with neovascular AMD receiving intravitreal anti-VAGF therapies, as well as with the findings from the larger avenue study. In conclusion, the key takeaways from the phase-2 STAIRWAY study are BCVA gains were fully maintained through week 54 with faricimab every 16-week flex and every 12 weeks dosing regimens and were comparable with monthly gold standard ranibizumab. Anatomic improvements including CNV lesion size and vascular leakage measured on fluorescein angiography, with faricimab every 16 weeks flex and every-12-weeks were comparable with those achieved with monthly ranibizumab. There were no new or unexpected safety events in STAIRWAY comparable with the overall safety profile across the faricimab phase one and phase-two studies, including AVENUE, STAIRWAY, and BOULEVARD, that enrolled nearly 600 patients. The STAIRWAY faricimab phase-two results show the potential of simultaneous Ang2 VAGF-A neutralization for sustained efficacy in neovascular AMD through extended dosing at every 16 weeks and every-12-week intervals. The phase-three clinical trials Tenaya and Lucerne, designed to confirm efficacy, sustained efficacy, and safety of faricimab in patients with neovascular AMD are currently underway. Thank you very much for your attention.