Gram-negative bacteria that produce extended-spectrum beta-lactamase enzymes are a global public health concern because they're resistant to antibiotics. Based on national surveillance data from 2011, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated that drug-resistant gram-negative bacteria accounted for at least 26 000 infections and 1700 deaths annually. The treatment of choice for serious infections caused by extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing gram negative bacteria is carbapenems. However, increased use of carbapenems may select for carbapenem resistance in gram-negative bacilli, which currently represents the greatest threat in terms of antibiotic resistance. Some observational studies have suggested that combination beta-Lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor antibiotics, such as piperacillin-tazobactam may be clinically effective for treating infections caused This week's issue of JAMA has a noninferiority trial looking at PIP-tazo as carbapenem-sparing therapy in patients with bloodstream infections caused by ceftriaxone-resistant E-coli or Klebsiella pneumoniae. The researchers randomly assigned hospitalized patients with at least 1 blood culture positive for ceftriaxone-resistant, PIP-tayzo susceptible E coli or Klebsiella to IV PIP-tazo, or meropenem, for a minimum of 4 days, up to a maximum of 14 days, with the total duration determined by the treating clinician. The primary outcome was all-cause mortality at 30 days after randomization. Moving on to the results: the 30-day mortality rate was 12.3% for patients treated with PIP-tazo compared with 3.7% for patients treated with meropenem. The difference did not meet the noninferiority margin of 5%, so the authors conclude the findings do not support the use of PIP-tazo as carbapenem-sparing therapy in the setting of drug-resistant E Coli or Klebsiella bloodstream infection. Two editorialists in this week's issue say the study leaves several questions unanswered, including whether PIP-tazo would be more effective if administered as an extended infusion, and whether similar combination beta-Lactam/beta-lactamase inhibitor antibiotics are noninferior to carbapenems for empirical treatment of bacteremia or for treatment of nonbacteremic extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing bacterial infection.