>> Hello everyone. I'm Sheila Myatra, Professor of Intensive Care working at the Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, India. I'm going to give you a bit of a background behind doing the Covid Steroid 2 trial. Now as we all know, the Covid 19 pandemic has resulted in unprecedented challenges in our healthcare system, resulting in several patients turning positive, and high mortality. And it continues to be an ongoing global challenge. Now patients with Covid 19 are characterized by severe pulmonary inflammation and hypoxemia. And this often leads to high oxygen, flow oxygen, mechanical ventilation and also for the disease progression often requiring other organ support, hemodynamic support, dialysis etc. So the question was that - about steroids in viral pneumonia. And if you look steroids, the role of steroids in viral pneumonia, there are not many studies. Many observational, some retrospective and few randomized control trials. And this was a systematic review and meta-analysis that looked at the effects of corticosteroids on mortality of patients with influenza pneumonia. And this included 10 randomized control trials, close to 6,500 patients. And it actually showed higher mortality in those patients who received corticosteroids. Now do steroids work in the other Corona Virus pneumonias. And this is an interesting mixed results. And if you look at the size where they tried high dose pulse versus non-pulse corticosteroid regimens and high dose was more than 500 million rounds of methyl prednisolone that was given to - in this study in 77 patients. And what they found was that the high dose methyl prednisolone given early in patients with Sars actually resulted in lesser oxygen requirement, lesser progression of the disease and better clearance in the x-rays of these patients. On the other hand, when they looked at corticosteroid therapy for critically ill patients with Middle East Respiratory Syndrome and this was done in 14 intensive care units in South Arabia which was led by Professor Aravi. What they found was that there was no difference in the mortality when patients received corticosteroids or not. In fact, patients who receive corticosteroid had more delayed clearance of the virus. So really mixed results. So is there a rational for giving steroid therapy in Covid 19 patients? Yes it's a hyperinflammatory state. There's a so-called cytokine storm. Almost a third of the patients present with circulatory shock. And you have an [inaudible] type of picture. And this is very nice editorial that was written by Professor Aravi on 10 reasons why corticosteroid therapy reduces mortality in severe Covid 19 patients. And we know about this Spanish trial, which looked at Dexamethasone treatment for acute respiratory distress syndrome. And this was a multi-centered randomized control trial, 277 patients. And they looked at 20 milligram and 10 milligram Dexamethasone for five days each, compared with placebo and they actually found a reduction in mortality in those patients who received the Dexamethasone treatment. So this was a kind of background that we had. And then there was several trials across the globe that were looking at corticosteroids for patients with Covid 19 [inaudible] hypoxemia. And we did the Covid steroid - we started the Covid steroid trial with low dose hydrocortisone in patients for Covid [inaudible] hypoxemia and this was giving 200 mg of hydrocortisone versus placebo. And these were in patients with severe Covid 19 and severe hypoxemia who were either mechanically ventilator or at least receiving 10 mls - 10 liters of oxygen. However during the - when this trial had just about started it was planned for 1,000 patients, but when we completed just 30 patients the recovery trial was published and this study, like many other studies had to be prematurely aborted. And with just 30 patients done we could not make any conclusions on either the efficacy or harm with using hydrocortisone in Covid 19 and severe pneumonia. And of course, the recovery trial which was published in the New England Journal of Medicine. This was a landmark trial, a large number of patients. And - which use six milligram of Dexamethasone for - daily for 10 days in patients with Covid 19. And there was a clear mortality benefit in those patients who were invisibly mechanically ventilated and oxygen dependent. However there was no difference in mortality in those patients, which did not require respiratory support. And this was a practice changing paper. And subsequently people across the globe started - clinicians started using Dexamethasone, steroids for treatment patients who were oxygen dependent with Covid 19. And subsequently the WHO also commissioned this meta-analysis, looking at the association between the administration of systemic corticosteroids and mortality among critically ill patients with Covid 19. And this meta-analysis included about 1,700 patients and patients who received hydrocortisone with high prednisone, dexamethasone, seven trials were included. And there was a clear benefit - mortality benefit in those patients who received corticosteroids, versus those patients who did not receive corticosteroids. And subsequently the WHO recommended the use of Dexamethasone for patients with severe and critical Covid 19 was recommended. However there are still several questions that were unanswered. There wasn't a head on comparison between the different corticosteroids and we knew that steroids are better than placebo in Covid 19 patients who are oxygen dependent. But which dose would superior was still not unknown? And the recovery trial used six milligrams of Dexamethasone, but the question was whether there was a role for a higher dose of dexamethasone then six milligram. Could that be beneficial? So if you look in the recovery trial of course, use six milligram of Dexamethasone. But if you look at the remaining six trials in the meta-analysis they use daily doses of glucocorticoids which are higher than six milligram of Dexamethasone. And this was median of almost 12 milligram in [inaudible] range of 6216. And you already - I've already shown you the Spanish trial, which showed the higher dose of Dexamethasone have been beneficial and this was of course in non-Covid ARDS. In addition to this pharmacological studies it was also suggested dose dependent activation of the corticosteroid receptors which increases doses up to 60 milligram of Prednisolone. And this is equivalent to about 12 milligram of Dexamethasone. So taken together there is a justification for giving higher doses of Dexamethasone than six milligram. And this may be beneficial. However giving higher doses of corticosteroid is also concerns about adverse reactions with the higher doses. There were especially with infections and concerns about activation of tuberculosis and other fungal disease - infections and we experience this actually during the second wave when there was a Mucormycosis epidemic. So how we went about this post-recovery trial is we contacted the investigators from the various sites involved in the Covid steroid trial. And we asked them about their clinical preference for using steroids post-recovery. And almost all patients accept about 1.6% of the clinicians said they would never use steroids, but they would either always or mostly use steroids or use steroids sometimes. So definitely the practice has changed post-recovery. And we also ask them about their trial preference post recovery. And we gave them various options, Dexamethasone compared with hydrocortisone, different doses of Dexamethasone six milligram, versus 12 milligram. Six milligram, versus 12 milligram and the highest preference was for the comparison between six milligram and 12 milligram of Dexamethasone, which is what we use in this trial. And these were responders - 237 responders from the European countries and India who were part of the initially Covid steroid trial who gave this response. And then we went about doing the Covid - planning the Covid steroid 2 trial comparing 12 milligram Dexamethasone with six milligram Dexamethasone looking at the benefits of mortality benefit with days alive without organ support and of course assessing the harms of any serious adverse event reactions or any mortality. So I'll stop here. And ask Professor Balach to kindly continue with the methods. Thank you. >> I'll just skip my screens. Here. Can you all see the slides? >> Yes that looks great Balach, thank you. >> Thank you. Sheila thank you for that. Once again, thank you for the opportunity to report the trial at the CCR meeting. And again thanks - thank you to Anders Spirna for his leadership of the trial. As Sheila mentioned, the aim of the trial was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of higher dose Dexamethasone in hospitalized adults with Covid 19 and severe hypoxia. And the hypothesis being a higher daily dose of dexamethasone 12 milligrams as compared to the currently recommended daily dose of six milligrams would increase the number of days alive without life support at 28 days after randomization. The - the study was sponsored by the collaboration for research and intensive care in Denmark. And by the George Institute for Global Health in Sidney and New Delhi. The study was funded by [inaudible] Foundation in Denmark and the [inaudible] Research - critical care research funding. And as Sheila mentioned the trial designed was informed by a survey conducted of the Covid steroid one trial, which is performed post recovery. And the key messages really were that the clinicians preferred corticosteroid was Dexamethasone. They - there was - there was A-50% of the clinicians preferred six milligrams, while a third of clinicians preferred those greater than six milligrams. And most of them are comfortable in enrolling patients into a six versus 12 dose comparison trial. The trial was investigated, initiated, it's a pragmatic blinded parallel group RCT. And it was an international trial conducted in Denmark, India, Sweden and Switzerland. The inclusion criteria were adult patients who are hospitalized with confirmed Sars Cov-2 infection. And requiring one of the three criteria as they're required to have supplemental oxygen at least at 10 liters per minute. Or non-vaso ventilation or vaso mechanical ventilation. The exclusion criteria were if patients were requiring systemic corticosteroids for other indications than Covid 19 in doses higher than six milligrams or had used corticosteroids for more than five days for Covid 19 prior to randomization or dose with vaso fungal infection or active tuberculosis or known hypersensitivity to Dexamethasone and pregnancy. Any of these were deemed exclusions for enrollment into the trial. The trial treatments were Dexamethasone 12 mg which is supplied as Dexamethasone phosphate or 6 mg again in the same formulation and these were suspended in sodium chloride solutions. And inside where Dexamethasone wasn't allowed wasn't available, betamethasone was allowed. And we discouraged other immunosuppressive agents. However following the [inaudible] Tocilizumab was allowed as part of a draw - a treatment for Covid 19. The - the interventions were administered in a blinded fashion. They were, as you can see they were masked bolus injection, a total volume of five mls IV. And this was prepared by a team of unblinded trial staff who weren't involved in the care of the trial patients or in data collection or data entry. And they were prepared from shelf medication at the local hospital pharmacies. And the patients, the treating clinicians and the trial personnel were blinded to the trial treatment as well as to the allocation sequence. The duration of trial intervention was what a maximum of 10 days from randomization or hospital discharge or death if earlier. If the patient had received dexamethasone for Covid 19 prior to enrollment. The intervention period was shortened so that no patients received Dex for more than 10 days as per the protocol. And with the hospital following the initial treatment, if they were discharged to another department, which is participating in the Covid steroid 2 trial. And then the allocation was continued for up to 10 days. But if they were discharged and transferred to a normal participating hospital department then the intervention was stopped. The randomization was password protected through a web-based interface with permitted blocks of varying sizes. And stratified by trial size, age, greater or less than 70. And use of mechanical - in [inaudible] mechanical ventilation at the time of screening. The trial was overseen by the Crick in Denmark and by the George Institute for Global Health in India. And all the operation processes and statistical analyses were called in by the Crick Unit in Denmark. There was a web-based data base. There was a pre-specified data monitoring plan. A pre-specified source data verification plan and we had ethics approval on all sides pre-enrollment. And in India as part of the requirement for all international sides, we also had to get health [inaudible] screening committee approval which we did. And all the procedures were as per local jurisdiction requirements. And the funders had no role in the statistical analyses or the [inaudible] preparation. The primary outcome was number of days alive without life support. That is mechanical ventilation or circulatory support or replacement therapy at 28 days after randomization. There are a number of secondary outcomes, and these were day 28 mortality, day 19 mortality and serious adverse reactions at 28 days, defined as the new episodes of septic shock, vaso fungal infection, clinically important GI bleeding or anaphylactic reaction to Dexamethasone. The sample size calculation was - was a - based on a mortality rate of 30% would die and 10% would still be on life support at 28 days in the control group. And so based on that we - we estimated that we would get a 15% relative risk reduction and 28-day mortality combined with a 10% reduction in life support. And at an alpha of .05 and a power of 85% we estimated sample size of 1,000 patients, 500 in each arm. A protocol and a statistical analysis plan were published prior to database log, as you can see published in items these logical's can be named [inaudible]. And it was the - the trial was registered on clinicaltrials.gov. And also the clinical trials registry in India. There was a data safety monitoring committee, which was an independent committee with a charter. And an interim analysis was completed after the first 500 patients and being followed for 28 days. And the first review provided recommendation of continuing the trial without modification. These are the key study dates. We commenced the trial on the 27th of August 2020. And we - the last enrollment was on the 20th of May 2021. And 28 day follow up was four weeks after that and a database log towards the end of June. And followed by an immediate investigative presentation and [inaudible] four weeks later. And then the first presentation by Anders of the ESR team lives meeting on the sixth of October. And of course, two days critical care review meeting. Thank you. Over to you Anders. >> Thanks Balach. Finishing my - my screen. >> Yes, that looks great Anders, thank you. >> Thanks a million Rob for hosting this presentation and hopefully very interesting and enlightening discussion. Thanks a million Sheila and Balach for a very nice build up to the results, which I'll present in the next 10 minutes. So we screened 1,400 patients, excluded 414 of those primarily because patients had already received [inaudible] for five days. Some did not consent. And others were to receive higher doses of steroids for another indication. 1,000 patients were randomized. A few were withdrawn because of lack of consent. Some of these prior to the first dose of trial medication. Some during follow-up. Only a single patient was lost between day 28 and day 19. So therefore we present data on 97% of all randomized patients. Patients were primarily enrolled in Denmark, 50%, one-third or a bit more in India and the rest in Sweden and Switzerland. Most patients were [inaudible] in ICU, some in a normal ward and a few in emergency department or HDU. The time from symptoms of Covid to hospitalization was seven days in both groups. And we enrolled patients two days after hospital admission in both groups. Some baseline characteristics, patients were aged 65, mostly male, weighing 80 kilos. They had the sort of expected co-existing illnesses, diabetes, ischemic heart disease, heart failure, COPD. This is the use of oxygen supplementation at the baseline. 55% received oxygen on an open system with a median flow of 23 liters per minute. A quarter was on non-invasive ventilation or CPAP with a [inaudible] of 0.60 and 20% were on vase mechanical ventilation at the time of randomization with an FIO2 of 4.60. Some co-interventions, registered at baseline. So most patients had already received Dexamethasone as this was allowed. At the time of randomization and this had been given for one day in both groups. Two-thirds received Remdesivir and 10% received IL6 inhibitor. This is the use of the trial medication after randomization, we intervened with trial medication for median of seven days in both groups. And only 2% in both groups received open label steroids during the intervention period. So the primary outcome was stays alive without life support. This is a - the distribution of the primary outcome in the two groups shown here as stacked for [inaudible] with red being worse outcome. So the darkest red there is zero days alive without life support at day 28. And blue represents spare outcome, and the darkest blue is 28 days And already [inaudible] that may be a difference between two [inaudible]. So these are the medians in the two groups, 22 days median. Days alive without life support. In the [inaudible] versus 20.5 days in the six-milligram group. The primary analysis was one of adjusted mean differences, which was 1.3 days favoring the 12-milligram group with a 95% confidence interval ranging from zero. So no difference to a 2.6% more days of life without life support in 12 milligram group. The P value for this analysis was 7%. Where it says the primary outcome in several subgroups, seven [inaudible] these were pre-defined. And as you see there was no statistically significant heterogeneity and it's [inaudible] in any of - of these subgroups. Most of the point estimates by their - on the benefit for 12 milligram side with the only potential point - estimated pointing the other direction was the use of an IL6 inhibitor at baseline. But small numbers are quite uncertain results. We also assessed [inaudible] life without life support at day 90. And this was 84 days in 12 milligram group versus 80 days in the six-milligram group giving adjusted mean difference of 4.4 days. And here we present 99% confidence interval because of multiple testing. This range from [inaudible] points six days so it's like reduction in the number of days of life support to up to 10 days - more days alive with life support with 12 milligram group in the 12-milligram group. Days alive for - and out of hospital also at day 90 show 62 days in 12 milligram group. This is 48, the six-milligram group to potentially at least on the media here, a large different - the adjusted means difference is - was four days with a confidence interval ranging from minus one to up to 10 days, days alive out of hospital in 12 milligram group. These are the time to death analysis. Show me a [inaudible] plot and the corresponding path ratio which is actually a post-hoc analysis that we were asked to do during the revenue process in the journal. The two landmark mortality outcome assessments were at day 28. Where 27% of 12 milligram group patients had died versus 32 in the six-milligram group. Giving an adjusted absolute difference of minus 5% favoring 12 milligram group. Again here 99% confidence interval. So giving ranging from minus 11% absolute difference, quite large mortality difference up to 2-point percent mortality increase with 12 milligram group. The same goes for mortality at day 90, so 32 and the 12-milligram group versus 38 in the six-milligram group. Again an adjusted difference of minus 5 percent with a confidence interval again crossing zero for minus 12, so we're rather large mortality with option 12 versus up to plus 2% to where a slight increase in mortality with a higher dose. As pointed out by Balach, adverse reactions was a predefined outcome that we assessed daily up to day 28. And this is composite outcome, so these are the number of patients who work with one or more serious adverse reactions. Being 11% in the 12-milligram group versus 13% in the 6-milligram group and adjusted different of minus two, ranging from minus seven to plus three. These are the four specific adverse reaction we ask for daily. Most of these reactions were new episodes of septic shock around 10% of patients in each group. Basic fungal infection around 4% and severe GI bleeding in around 2% of patients. No patient had [inaudible] reaction to Dexamethasone. In addition to the registration of serious adverse reaction we obviously had the more spontaneous reporting of any serious adverse events. So if you combine these two so the number of patients having either a serious adverse reaction or a serious adverse events that was 21% in the 12-milligram group versus 25% in the 6-milligram group. So to conclude, I think it's fair to say that we did a high-quality trial. It was blinded, we had a few violations. The vast majority of patients were [inaudible] and we used 90 day follow up for this report. By enrolling patients both in Europe and in India we enrolled patients with different characteristics, [inaudible] practice [inaudible] and healthcare systems potentially increasing the [inaudible] of the results. It's narrow statistical confusion is that Dexamethasone 12 versus 6 milligram did not result in statistically significant more days alive without life support at 28 days in patients with Covid 19. And severe hypoxia. There are obviously issues to discuss and I'm sure we'll touch up on some of these. It's quite evident that there appear to be benefit from anti-inflammatory [inaudible] on top of that 6 milligrams of Dexamethasone as shown with the use of IL6 and Jak inhibitors. We believe that the Covid steroid 2 trial results are most compatible with overall benefit from Dexamethasone 12 versus 6 milligram. We will inform clinicians and patients further by doing a pre-planned patient analysis. We are collaborating with for the trial groups who have done sort of similar trials in a prospective meta-analysis, and we will follow the patients in Covid steroid 2, up to day one [inaudible] which will be around 20th of November, assessing their mortality and health related quality of life. I think this trial was magnificent on the taking there's obviously heaps of people involved and therefore he's people to thank this [inaudible] in New Delhi, all [inaudible] investigators and research staff, patients, relative, clinical staff for accepting a trial during very difficult circumstances. Also sort of the auxiliary staff being monitoring, monitors those funding, the trials, the people doing all the legal stuff, ethics committee meetings, medicine [inaudible], approving the trial very fast under challenging circumstances. I'm proud and happy to announce that the paper is published now as we speak in German. With that I will stop sharing. And give the word back to Rob. Thank you. >> Anders thanks so much. Balach, Sheila and the entire team, congratulations, fantastic trial, magnificent trial under extremely difficult circumstances. We're going to cross to Aberdeen now and to Marianne Campbell to hear her editorial. We're looking forward to this Marianne, over to you. >> Thanks Rob and thanks Anders and teams for your efforts. I'll share my screen. There you go. Can I just check? Are you seeing that okay? >> Yes that is perfect Marianne, thank you. >> Super. Excellent. Well I thank you so much for giving me the opportunity to talk about this trial. I think it's absolutely fascinating. And really I want to start with the first well done, superbly delivered trial. Really difficult circumstances. So anything that I've picked up and seen over the course of reading this trial is really just you know, around the edges. Really the most important thing is this is a superbly run and executed trial. My plan is to have a quick overview of the methods, have a look at the results, take a few items by - for discussion that maybe we'll talk about in the group discussion afterwards and then a little bit on interpretation. So I think you will share with me that the methodology was incredibly strong. We heard already very strong rationale for the study question. Good rationale for the study population who should come into this trial. It's a large sample size, well informed and control of entry wasn't formed by previous studies. Allocation concealment was superb and supreme. It was concealed even up to and after the drafting of the abstract. And that really is taking - making sure you have no scientific bias, really to the extremes. And I would really like to thank the trial for that. So very strong methods and analysis. And it was also benefitted by strong sensitivity. And there was this really test the results. Again, just a quick word [inaudible] it was multi-national, 31 sites between Europe and India. And the things I would look at for here is - is there any evidence that treatment is dominated by any one site? Therefore is there any bias within it? Here is the graph of the recruitment. And as you can see it's a good distribution of treatment across sites. There is no one site that's dominating. So that gives me reassurance that generalizability is good and that it's not being driven by any particular management pathway at any one site. And you did recruit to the planned sample size. So again, I think it's really [inaudible] in this. We really did [inaudible] what you did and delivered it. So [inaudible] what the result is. So we have this composite, number of days alive without life support. And that's in [inaudible] mechanical ventilation certainly three reports for renal replacemen.t therapy. And we have the 22 days in the 12-milligram group against the 20 days in the six-milligram group. And as you can see the confidence interval one from zero [inaudible] and [inaudible] statistical significance. And 28-day mortality, 5% difference in mortality. And which by any fact is an important difference. Again if you look at the confidence intervals, very much [inaudible] towards benefit and crossing the line of unity to 1.08. And then the third element was does this have additional harm? Are there [inaudible] adverse reactions? And here again, we see a lower rate in the 12-milligram group compared to the 6-milligram group. But you know again not quite statistically significant. And that's [inaudible] to 90 days. So I'm - because we've heard the effect sizes, they're all in a positive direction. But it's not statistically significant. So what should we conclude from that? I think a really good place to start, let's unpack. A really nice paper that was in the New England Journal in 2016 written by Stuart Puchac and Greg Stone. Stuart is one of the high level [inaudible]. And what should you do if the so-called primary [inaudible] what should you do? And it's really goes through a sense of you need to ask yourself quite a few questions. Is there indication of potential benefit? What about power? Was the primary outcome appropriate and so on? You know you want to go away and read this for yourselves and take it as a little check list. I'd encourage you to do that. I'm going to pick out a couple of things that struck me as I read it. And I think might be worthy of discussion in the wider group. The things I'm going to look at are the primary outcome itself. Look a little bit closer at the population who got into the trial. Ask that question about statistical power. Drill down a little bit about the use of Dexamethasone ahead of randomization. Talk a little bit about these P value thresholds. Ask the question that probably every [inaudible] wants to know, is based on the analysis [inaudible]. A little bit about that. And then talk about what might be tagged this is the negative trial. I'll go through each of these in turn just over the next few minutes, just to start that discussion. So the number of days alive and without life support. And again clinically very sensible. I can see why it was chosen. And the median is 22 days versus 20.5 days. However, there is ceiling effect in this. If you look at the top end of the interquartile range, each of them is 28. So at - even from that we know that at least 25% have the very highest value. And actually it was over 40% at the time the highest value possible of 28 days alive and without life support. So already you're giving an any type of analysis proves it's a hard job to try and discriminate between 41% of the child population that have the very best result possible. That ceiling effects continue out to 90 days. And certainly the team that tried an analytic approach to try and help with that, it really I think is providing a major problem for analysis strategy to detect difference. You're dominated by ceiling effect. So actually I feel the primary outcome is not helping you in this trial. And likely what we need to do for interpretation is look to the other outcomes to help perform our judgements. So it might be worth a discussion about how we ended up with an outcome with such high ceiling effects. Now I want to look a little bit at who got into the trial, and we heard that it is really trying to look at those with severe hypoxia. But there is a range of severity presented. So we have 55% who have the supplemental oxygen. We had about 25% with non-invasive [inaudible] or CPAP and we had about 20% who were already on mechanical ventilation. I suppose my question would be to the clinicians was what is or was the real target? Was it the whole spectrum of more severe disease? Or was it actually that you know ideally you'd have looked at one end of the spectrum. And what really made me question that was you saw this subgroup analysis that showed the consistency of effect. But if you look at the actual estimates of the size those that are originally on invasive mechanical ventilation, they're primary outcome was nine days in the 12-milligram group versus 2.5 days in the 6-milligram group. Whereas if you came into the study without mechanical ventilation it was 28 and 28. So again you see the ceiling effect is almost completely confined with the level of severity of supplemental oxygen. So again, my question would be did you you know, somehow confuse the picture even more by having such a wide spectrum of what could be called severe disease. And again that's maybe worthy of a little bit of discussion afterwards. The power question, so this is you know what we often see as an issue with trials that don't come up with a significant result. And you know I thought the underpinning sample size calculating. He was a very robust, it looked. Was looking for an absolute - a relative difference of 15%- and 28-day mortality. And that would have been effectively absolute from 30 to 25.5%. And then looking at a 10% down to 9% on life support. But you saw a mortality difference of you know approximately 5%. So you know you may have been on the cusp of - of parallel issues. But actually I feel a sample size was probably okay. Don't think statistical power issue biggest issue in this study. But you know obviously a bigger trial might have helped you. But in the light of that primary outcome the ceiling effects. I don't think the power would have helped you out here. But [inaudible] about the statistical power in this study, maybe some others would be. And a couple of points about the prior use of Dexamethasone. So rightly, you allowed people into this study who had pre-use of Dexamethasone. You restricted that to only having a maximum of 6 milligrams use, pre-randomization and of course if they were in the 12-milligram arm you talked it up. And if they were in the 6-milligram arm it continued on a basis. And you only allowed a maximum of 10 days. And of [inaudible]. So I think that's all fine. The medians all look fine. What's - what worried me a little bit was the skew. So I highlighted in red the upper levels of the interquartile range of pre-use and the lower levels of interquartile range on the actual duration of [inaudible] of use. When the 6-milligram arm I am slightly worried they had a skewed a longer use pre randomization. And also possibly skewed longer use within the trial. 12 milligram potentially had skewed shorter use pre and that would have been at 6 milligrams. And potentially skewed shorter use at 12 milligrams in the term. And if so then that would push this - the results towards a null trial as well. So again maybe by having such a broad use of Dex ahead of time, might also have conjugated indirectly to you not being able to detect a significant result. Again maybe worthy of discussion. I'm only working off the I2R's. I don't know the real data. But then just something to think about. I think also it's best worth seeing P values, not all about the P values but a continuation - not binary threshold. I think you'd find very few statisticians who fixate on P less than 0.05. But you are [inaudible] we don't. And you know just if it hits one side of the threshold, you're good. If it hits the other you're not. That is not helpful. And so I think we need to look at the totality of the evidence. And so really at mortality, you know it does look very much as if it is heading in favor of mortality. But the results are very sensitive to one or two cases. So if you think about the fragility index which we use to see how fragile our significant results that would turn them into non-significant results, if we go the other way actually if the results have differed by only three patients in the mortality group, it would have been a significant result. So actually we're really quite sensitive to small numbers and - and that's even more than you're lost to follow up. And you lost follow up rate was miniscule. So I think again you probably need to look wider. Look to the profile of [inaudible] rather than fixate on any one primary, the mortality. Let's look at the profile. So the outcome prove when again this is what [inaudible] and stone would suggest you do. Actually it's not really about the statistical significance of the primary outcome or the secondary outcomes. Interpretation of any trial to depend on the totality of the evidence, the primary, the secondary, the safety outcomes. Not just a single endpoint. So for me looking at the profile I looked to the confidence intervals and not the P value. They suggest to me, consistent direction with effect in favor of benefit, a new evidence of apparent harm. Just one last point really about Bayesian. I think a lot of people would think Bayesian analysis will help. Is this a silver bullet? It might add a little bit of insight around the quantifiable estimate. But actually I'm not sure it will really help because I think there are some fundamental issues. I'm not sure a Bayesian analysis will help. And [inaudible] high ceiling effects. It might. And it's not simply about power insignificance, we need to really think about what the underlying issue in this trial is telling us. And the Bayesian might give us a little bit more certainly around the probability. So my conclusion then evidence to me points absolutely towards no evidence of harm and certainly potential benefit of 12 milligrams. The profile of the [inaudible] support the same message consistency across all dimensions as prior interpretations. But for me, it's - the questions I would think about is what additional evidence would you clinically require to inform your clinical decision making? This is not just numbers game. And I think maybe we should think you know, in the short term about non-inferiority. As far as I can see this is certainly at minimum non-inferior. And so therefore does that change your thoughts about well it's certainly not inferior. Would I prescribe it? Economic analysis would also be very interesting. Very, very small additional cost I would imagine for the job that potentially really high gain in that level of mortality difference. And certainly over time your combination of knowledge from other studies and your Bayesian analysis and your quality of life will help with the definitive assessment the benefit. But for me I think at the moment the right clinical judgment and decision making. And my last word, there's no such thing as a negative trial. People should not call this a negative trial. This trial is important. It's informative and it absolutely adds to the evidence base. And I'll just wrap up again to test a job well done to the Covid steroid 2. And I'll leave it there. >> Marianne thank you - thank you so much. Fantastic editorial yet again. And you make it look just so easy. A colleague of mine Peter McGreggon has tweeted "Can we just put Marianne Campbell in charge of the world? Such brilliant clarity of thought." It's hard to disagree with that. If you need something new to do tomorrow. You've got my vote. We'll go back to the trial team now Anders, Baloch and Sheila I'm sure you'll want to respond to some of the points that Marianne has made. >> I may start off. So thanks a million Marianne. I'm very pleased with your comments and your take on this. And I - I think I agree with all of it. Thinking back there were - I mean challenging times when planning this trial. So a new disease handled in a specific way in the beginning of the pandemic. And at least in Denmark, but I think in many parts of the world. The handling of these patients change somewhat to avert the cost of the pandemic. So we have Danish data from ICU's during the full 20 month of the pandemic, and initially - so in the first wave two-thirds of all patients were mechanically ventilated. But this - this changed so we became all reluctant to pout patients on invasive mechanical ventilation and - and therefore in the second wave only one-third of patients were invasively mechanically ventilated. So this changed the population and I guess that has been one of the challenges potentially with running a trial in a pandemic disease that the population may change, and in particular the handling of - of patients might change during that. Regarding the primary outcome I think we general struggle a bit in critical care with which outcome to choose as the primary. I think we lack a good outcome that sort of compass it, adds up to being alive and well. That would be the perfect primary outcome and we haven't that yet. I think many groups are working on it. We at least will engage more of the patients of society to hear their voice in what they think is a more appropriate outcome. We are a big concerned about using mortality as - as this again will have sort of a biological ceiling effect that some patients will probably die no matter what you do. Some patient will probably survive no matter what you do and then you sort of have a middle group that you can intervene against. And therefore ceiling effects at least biological is - is also a challenge using mortality as the primary outcome. The other comments - you have the use of Dexamethasone prior to randomization. I mean this was a pragmatic choice. I think if we had said the prior use of Dex was an exclusion criteria we would still run the grail cause sort of the flow of patients - of these patients is that they come in somewhat hypoxic, get oxygen, get Dexamethasone and then some of them progress. And this is sort of a trial that then enrolled the progressing patients so therefore almost all patients were on Dexamethasone at the time of randomization. I think it would have been extremely difficult finishing it without enrolling these patients. I'll leave it there. I think, any comments to that Sheila or Baloch? >> I'll just say thank you very much Marianne just listening to you gave me great insights into a trial and now I thought it was just a problem of the P value. But I really understood a lot of things after what you said. And your point about the pre-randomization use of Dexamethasone I think is a very important point where you talk about perhaps the 12-milligram group, you know receiving lesser doses and perhaps it was no difference between the [inaudible] that's a very important point. But like [inaudible] said, it was a pragmatic trial. This was done soon after the recovery study where people had started using Dexamethasone. And because for practical concerns many patients were treated who would have otherwise normally come into the intensive care unit because of a pandemic situation we were being treated in [inaudible] and other areas. So it was not possible to randomize these patients. So a lot of patients got Dexamethasone. So in that sense it was a very - it was a pragmatic trial, and it would have been difficult to get a patient who had not received Dexamethasone because many patients were oxygen dependent were being managed in the world. But I think this is - this is a very important point. Thank you very much because this is something that I have not thought about. Thank you. >> Baloch you're on mute at the moment. >> Thank you, sorry. Marianne thank you for that excellent editorial overview. I guess just a few additional points. I think - I think it's also hard to do a blinded trial during a pandemic. There aren't many blinded RCT's [inaudible] that's one of the key issues here. And also comparing two very, very different healthcare systems. And if you actually look at the [inaudible] plot there, the - the point estimate for benefit for Dexamethasone for 12 milligrams appears to be better in the European cohort as the - as compared to the Indian cohort. And you know, and I guess the third key difference was probably most of the other trials are stopped at 28 days. And this is the first trial which has gone to day 90. Looking at - and there is consistency of - of outcome benefit. So it's just worth highlighting those and it's hard to know why - before [inaudible] stood out was really why there was a difference in the 12-milligram effect between the European and the Indian cohorts. But - and it would also be useful to tease out what these - we haven't got to that yet the proportion of Vaso fungal infections between Europe and India. That would be a useful additional oversite to get. I'll stop there. >> Baloch thanks very much. What we'll do now is we'll bring in my colleague Chris Nosh. Chris has questions. Chris I see one from David Harrison on the livestream chat function. I'm sure you'll maybe start with that one. >> And yes, I'll just bring it up. So David Harrison said, days alive and free does not seem to have been calculated as analyzed in the conventional way. I [inaudible] at any time assigned zero. It's a 28-day mortality is greater than 25%, but the lower quartile is not zero. And was there a reason for this? >> Yeah that's obviously - obviously David is right. He's always right I think. Yeah so - so that's correct. We analyzed all days alive free of life support, no matter if the patient later died. Because at least in Italy we thought this would add value as well. If not only to patients and relative, but also to - to the healthcare system. We did a - a sensitivity analysis where we counted all deaths within day 28 as zero and it practically gave the same result. So it didn't change the result to analyze whole test zero. >> Okay. And thanks. I'm going to move on a little bit. There's a few questions sort of around dosing. And I think Sheila is ready. Stated the rationale for the choice between 6 and 12 milligrams. And the meta-analysis used 15 milligrams per day to differentiate high and low dose. And there's also some smaller trial data right there comparing 6 milligrams versus higher doses of [inaudible] and so 12 milligrams too low to show a significant difference? >> I think that's impossible to answer. I think we will - we will do a subgroup analysis based on weight. And there we may get some insight if - if patients weighing less will have potentially higher benefit of the drug compared to those weighing more. So that's one indirect way of at least estimating if a higher dose would be beneficial. I'm still I think - I think the process of choosing 12 was right. And - and so I at least I'm still pleased with that choice. I don't know if any - if Baloch or Sheila has any [inaudible] for that. >> I think it - look it's a very difficult one to answer because and as you know there was a survey post recovery, post our first trial that we did. We pulled all the clinicians who were taking part in the Covid steroid 1 trial. And there are a range of questions in terms of the interventions to compare but also the dose, what would be the dose they would be comfortable with testing. And - and we - we know that the [inaudible] paper, we looked at 20 milligrams of Dexamethasone for non-Covid ARDS. I think clinicians were - were - I think obviously six was really set in stone on one arm. And there was a lot of discussion between 12, 20 and there was a lot of discomfort once it came to, once released the high dose steroid group. Certainly in septic shock it would shown to be associated with adverse outcomes and people who aren't comfortable going to the higher end. So we had to settle on an intermediate dose and 12 was where we got it. >> I'd just like to add that in India we will already using very high doses you know, doses close to 30 milligrams I would say of Dexamethasone. Even before the recovery trials and doses of corticosteroids was quite high. And seeing what happened to us in the second we - with the mucomycosis pandemic, which was attributed to using high doses of corticosteroids. You know we became very cautious about the dose of Dexamethasone that we were using. So I think this is definitely a concern in countries where the infection rates are high. You have to balance the efficacy against the risk of serious adverse events especially you know infections. So in that sense I think 6 milligram versus a 12 milligram was quite a balanced approach. >> And there has been that different approach to the use of steroids Kodak's trial used the initial higher dose followed by a lower dose that ARDS, again sort of similar. Is that something that needs looked at further? Should we be titrating the dose to the patient in terms of their inflammatory markers? Is there something that needs looked at there? Do we need a Covid steroid 3 trial? >> I don't know. I - it was sort of an exhausting experience I think at least. So personally I'm not raised to that - for that. But I - I think there is still many unanswered questions on steroid use, and I could hypoxic respiratory [inaudible] general so - to one more platform trials where - where it will become easier to test different steroids, different dosing regimens. But also the duration of therapy in the sickest patients. I think that would be worthwhile doing. But I think we need more platform trials to do this much easier to allow us to answer more questions. So more collaboration, more platform trials than I think we can do it. Because there's so many questions to be answered. >> You talk about the balance between immunosuppression, having a beneficial effect and adverse effects in terms of infections. And the patient population in your trial had - there was a relatively low use of IL6 inhibitors. And so have you any recommendations or any thoughts neither IL6 or many guidelines and considered a standard of care whether you should continue with a lower dose or a higher dose in those patients? >> Again I think we don't have answers to this question. It's a tough one and certainly in our own study, correct me if I'm wrong Anders. We only had about 25 or 50 patients over all what concomitant IL6 inhibitors. So we certainly can't please out the data from our trial. It will be pretty difficult. >> Yeah I think - I mean obviously the [inaudible] to our result came out during our trial. And - and therefore it's a small population that have been exposed to sort of the combination of higher dose steroid in IL6 inhibitors. And as Baloch said I mean there's no head-to-head comparison. I think if - if you - if clinicians do not have access to IL6 inhibitors or the patient specific patient is potentially inappropriate to the use of an IL6 inhibitor I would at least personally consider using higher dose steroids instead. If - if there is any room for the combination of IL6 inhibitors and higher dose steroids, I don't know. Personally I would probably be a bit concerned about that. If - and if - there is something nice about steroids in the way that they can be stopped. It's cheap, it's available everywhere. It's very well known to all clinicians whereas the use of IL6 inhibitors in severe patients is something new. So I could see that the - that many clinicians may actually choose to use higher dose steroids instead of IL6 inhibitors for those reasons. If that's right or wrong, I don't know. >> Anders thanks very much. Chris thank you very much. We better move on. We are quite a bit behind time once again. So we got to bring in our panel now and I'll start with Bram. Bram could you perhaps give us your initial thoughts on the trial? And I think you have a little bit of data to share with us as well. >> Thanks Rob. Fantastic discussion. Blown away by presentation of this amazing trial. The work done to do it during the pandemic and - and fantastic editorial by Marianne who brought up a lot of the points that I think are - are integral. You know we - I work as a guideline methodologist with the WJ ESICM, Society Critical Care Medicine amongst others, and we're often faced with this issue when coming up with recommendations for clinical care with you know, systematic reviews, meta-analysis that suggests benefit based on point estimate. But with confidence intervals that cross no effect. And you know you have to make the best-informed decision with what you have, often. And certainly agree with the summation that's been made to this point is that when we look at the point estimates, we look at the 95% confidence interval. And I love that Marianne brought up that approach, because that's what we use in keeping with grade is that my takeaway from the mortality outcome is my best guess is a 13% reduction in 90-day mortality. Now I'm not as certain about that, because of confidence intervals that at the upper end cross one. But it certainly seems like my best guess is a reduction. Interesting that around the fragility and the power in that they actually investigators hit their baseline risks that they were aiming for at 30%. And his the relative risk reduction about 5% that they were hoping for. And still because of post-randomization exclusions and adjustment didn't quite meet that .05 but it makes me wonder so much that if we had enrolled in other 20, 50, 100 patients whether we would have - be having a much, much different conversation at this moment if we had. And to Rob's point I'm just going to share my screen. You may or may not be aware that there were actually - and Anders I apologize. I don't mean to steal your thunder about ongoing analysis that you're presenting - you're planning from a meta-analysis perspective. But there were a couple of other small trials that have evaluated this question of low dose steroids versus high dose steroids, two in fact. One from Argentina, one from Iran. They're not perfect comparisons and so I can't pretend to believe that this is all homogenous data that we're pulling here together. One of them was only an ARDS patients, one of the other one is in hospitalized patients. One of them actually looked at high dose methyl red, against lower dose Dexamethasone. So again not a perfect comparison. But you can see if you add in an extra 100 or 200 patients from these smaller RCT's this is looking at mortality at the longest follow up point using a fixed effect meta-analysis technique, which I think is justified because this is primarily driven by the one trial that we're discussing today, the Covid steroid trial. All of a sudden this - this effect estimate does become statistically significant for those that logged P values out there. So you know, I think that there's a lot of compelling reasons in my eyes why this should influence practice. And again, I'll be honest that it has changed my practice. And we are a center where we use a lot of Tocilizumab. And I've still been giving 12 milligram of Dexamethasone to my patients. There's a few areas, very, very quickly. A few areas that I'm still concerned about. The impression is important. And I think that we need further data. And that's why I think I also posted on twitter in my mind wouldn't be a strong recommendation to use the higher dose. But - but certainly because of the costs and the other aspects I think would be consistent with a conditional or weak recommendation to use the larger dose as compared to the lower dose. The change in landscape of usual care is important too. It's not just IL6 receptor blockers. But you know we're using more Jak 2 inhibitors now. We're not using convalescent - we've learned so much in 18 months that usual care has shifted and will continue to shift in the next few months. And so it's so hard to do research because you know lessons, trial data that we have from six months ago, when it comes to generalizability is already a little bit stale, and usual care has shifted, and we're not sure how well that applies to our current state. So that's an area of ongoing uncertainty. And then very lastly, and then hand things over to other panel members is the SAE's. And you know certainly seems like here that there was not an increase in SAE's and adverse events with the higher dose. And that's consistent with RCT's in sepsis and consistent with RCT's in ARDS, for which we've done meta-analysis for. But a lot of these side effects are relatively rare. And hard to capture. Neuromuscular weakness, so hard to diagnose in the ICU. Even mucomycoses and invasive fungal infection very difficult to capture. You'd need thousands and thousands and thousands of patients probably to show a difference. So I still am a little bit worried about SAE, severe adverse events in infection. And I don't think we're going to see the - the impact of that without many more patients. So for me I've changed my practice. A weak recommendation for in my eyes, but still as we've said ongoing areas of uncertainty. >> Thank you very much. Fantastic comments there. Very, very interesting. Paul I'll turn to you. An epidemiologist and non-clinician for those watching. How would you interpret this from a methods point of view? >> It's really interesting though. And thanks for the invitation to be on the panel. Congratulations to Sheila, Baloch and Anders, incredible trial and really difficult circumstances. And I think the two main points really. There are challenges to any study, but I think it's been extenuated during the pandemic. Both of which have been touched on already and discussed already. But it's really around I think firstly that balance between sort of what would be tight study design controls to - within to reduce the potential bias and the study. And as Baloch mentioned the fact that it was a blinded intervention which is fantastic and not many have been blinded within the - within the pandemic. But also the decisions made that have increased, to really increase the pragmatism, such as the very broad eligibility criteria and the discussion that we've already had on Dexamethasone been allowed up to four days prior to - prior to enrollment. And these decisions that we all make during design of any study do have potential large implications for the - for the study, do allow 12 hours of invasive mechanical ventilation before you can randomize, just to allow windows for recruitment potential consent etc., a really important sort of design - design features. Secondly which Brahm just mentioned is really that changing background care that is happening that can affect the conduct of the study we talked. Anders mentioned about - it's been the same in the UK. We kind of - mechanical ventilation at the start of the pandemic. Vast majority of patients were mechanical ventilated and that has dropped off eventually in different cohort of patients and they have been ventilated as far more use of CPAP, flow in Covid 19 patients. And all these have implications of the interpretation and running of the study. But also if - about how you reacted to recovery results. I'd say that is a really key aspect in how quickly you change tact from - from looking at the initial steroid trial into - into change to the high dose versus the low dose steroids. That was really important. But I think the interpretation obviously of the background of Tocilizumab moving it's care [inaudible] is important and obviously only about 10% of patients. Probably later on in the trial I imagine sort of receive that. But it's great to see some of the longer term follow up with the quality of life and 180 days and could be really important output. Marianne touched upon sort of the benefit of the - or maybe the reanalysis of the Bayesian approach of not being of benefit. It may well have been a benefit I imagine. I'm not a statistician but it's - maybe the Bayesian or the adaptive approach to - which would have no fixed sample size and then potentially you would be stopping this study on a statistical trigger of efficacy etc., rather than a fixed sample size. Where you're cutting the analysis and then analyzing that - that single point and maybe that sort of approach may well have yielded what we call a positive result in the - in the study. But overall it was really - really important, I think some huge design challenges that have been extenuated over the pandemic. >> Paul thank you very much. We'll turn now to Colin in Oakland. Colin is joining us - it's not just as early in the morning as it was whenever you started. Thanks so much for joining us colin. Colin you wrote the editorial that has come out in JAMA, just a few minutes ago along with Lisa Higgins and Steve Webb. And there were a few very interesting points in that. One of them follows on from what Paul has just said. You kind of allude to maybe we should possibly be moving to at Bayesian approach? Let me just see. I have it here. Where did it go to? Oh it's in there somewhere. I'll spend time trying to find it. I'll hand it over to you. So Paul - so Colin your thoughts on does this sort of a trial, maybe not force us but nudge the critical care community towards using more Bayesian analyses? >> Yes well this trial - first of all congratulations to Anders and the team. I think it's been a fantastic journey that you've been on and a great result and its good to be having this discussion. So congratulations first of all. On the question of Bayesian I think this is a very great illustration of what can occur when you have to pre-specify various aspects of the trial to determine your sample size. At the begininng. And - and then make your analysis against the - those assumptions that you started off with along time previously. And I don't know if that really helps us very - it's an approach that puts us into - pushes us into a corner. And a Bayesian approach does give us the ability to pre-specify the degree of certainty that we want to achieve in our result. And that's the thing that we pre-specify and that's really more clinically useful. The question, what is the probability that this treatment is better. And if we can see that probability as our pre-specified threshold then recruitment can continue until - and whatever varying outcomes you might want to look as triggers are actually met. And it is possible to - to do that. And achieve an answer no matter what the trial is. You have to keep on going. You have to have the capacity to keep on going until you've hit futility or a specified outcome. But it does mean you do get to an answer. And I think that's an approach we will increasingly be taking on board. One of the other things about the design here and Marianne mentioned it was the ceiling effect of the primary outcome. And I think that's another very important lesson is that when you've got a scale such as that where everyone is pushed up at one end, or a lot of the patients are pushed up at one end, it becomes less incident to picking up effects - treatment effects and we have to think very carefully about our selection of primary outcome to help maximize the ability of the trial design to detect treatment effects. Perhaps one other comment I should make and that's the idea of platform trials that you mentioned is the ability to look at interactions. And the question about what do we do with this trial when we've also got standard of care moving becoming IL6 receptor antagonist in the mix and where does this fit in? And having a platform or multi-factorial trial design it can look at interactions at the at the big - from the very beginning would really help us in answering these questions. We don't tend to give treatments in isolation. We give them in combination, that's the nature of clinical practice. And I think having our trial designs aim to reflect that but help answer the questions that clinicians really - really need to know. >> Colin thank you very much. Can I ask you Colin just before we move on and Paul maybe as well? Both of you are involved in re-map cap which of course, uses a Bayesian framework. Has that changed how you now view trials? How you're more likely to start trials using a Bayesian framework? >> Well I've become increasingly sold on the idea. We learned a lot about how to do it. Through the last couple of years. And I think it's got a lot to offer, the clinical trial community. It's got some challenges and Paul is nodding there. Very much so. But I think they're worth it. I think the gains we get in terms of they're now going to give answers that are more clinically relevant. What is the probability that this treatment is beneficial? It's the kind of question the clinician wants answer rather than which side of the .05 line did it set? >> I agree with Colin. I'm interested to know Marianne's thoughts from a statistician point of view from talking to statistician David and [inaudible] just the planning, the design, etc., is hugely labor intensive and a large Bayesian platform trial. There's also challenges obviously as we said, there's no fixed sample size, how do you pass the large trial for a funding application, etc. There are a lot of I think, uncertainties and it's going to - it needs a funder who will take a leap I think. And to take that risk in a platform trial. >> Yeah I mean I can just jump in there. I'm leading a Bayesian trial at the moment and it's not a bed of roses. It's difficult. But I think you either have to grasp the whole perspective, I think of the Bayesian approach from day one. And then you're running in that mode that you've set up the data collection to help you then inform your priors and your [inaudible] probability. So if you're in that zone from the beginning you do a lot of the planning up front. But then at least is everything is filling that design. It is difficult is where you've set it up in a [inaudible] context, and then you're trying to use a Bayesian approach to you know, almost an unpack something at the end of the day. You're trying to unpack and effectively you wouldn't be having this conversation I'm sure if we were on the other side of the line of P equal [inaudible] 0.05. So it's - it's a - I guess a second way of trying to get useful information out of it. And I think we should just move more wholesale to Bayesian trials, but we'll need to sort of I guess, all educate ourselves on the journey. I'm sure if we come back to here in 10 years. >> Great thank you Marianne. Just as a comment here from Anders Granholm who I think was the statistician, Anders for this trial. On the livestream he has posted regarding the Bayesian analysis, which is currently under review. An important point is that this is not a re-analysis motivated by mere significance of the result, but a prospectively planned secondary analysis with a full protocol published prior to any unblinding stroke analysis. So thanks for that contribution. Anders you mentioned during the ESICM presentation that you were possibly a bit frustrated with the results that you - that has been returned with this [inaudible] approach. And maybe you might move more to Bayesian analysis and Bayesian frameworks in the future. >> Yeah that's - the - I guess the frustration is the lack of nuance and the interpretation in at least the sort of the conclusions allowed for - in the major journals. So a lot of money and frustration could be - could be spared if we just skipped the P value. And allowed the more nuance interpretation also in frequently planned trials. Having said that I agree with - with the - with the prospects of starting out without a pre-planned sample size and - and moving towards a degree of certainty. So there I think the Bayesian framework does have some interesting potential. But - but when it comes to interpretation I think we can have nuanced interpretation and frequently designed to trial as well. Just - we just need to drop the P value and look at confidence intervals instead. >> And you wrote a lovely paper in JAMA last summer I think it was along with Chris [inaudible] and Paul Young about how to potentially interpret trial results that didn't meet statistical significance. And a lot of it was in that. I remember having discussions and the former Editor in Chief of JAMA, Howard Buchner has had a discussion with Marianne that they will hold trials to report the results as they said they should, or they will report it. So is it possible for trialists to say we will report in a more nuanced fashion? >> I think at least we will do that in the future. So if we planned frequent trials in the field trial I think we will put in the protocol in the statistical analysis plans that we will not look - not look at P values at all. If journal editors at the end of the day will accept that, I'm not sure. It appears easier some way or the other to - to report a Bayesian trial. There you are allowed a very nuanced interpretation in the journal. And so I think a lot of - a lot of the frustration that we at least have felt in this process would have been less if - if not only interpreting the results based on P value of the primary outcome only. >> Sure, Baloch you want to come in there? >> Look I mean it's a fantastic discussion. The - I mean the P value is so deep in the minds of clinicians and you know, everywhere, so it's just hard to change. And I'm not saying there's no reason to change. But a more fundamental change would probably need to come at a journal - the high impact journals will need to start the way they are happy to accept data being reported. Almost like a new sort of consort check list, which a new sort of reporting check list will lead to be developed which allows people to have nuanced interpretations of results rather than a stick - conventional P less than .05. >> Sure. And Sheila perhaps you'd like to comment on this as well. >> Very interesting discussion. I agree with what has been stated. But it's hard to get people to not look at P values. But this is definitely something new and interesting and perhaps futuristic and will change the way we look at trials and have a more nuances interpretation. This was definitely a frustration for us seeing the way the results are done now. But like Marianne said that if it had been the other way around, perhaps we wouldn't be having this kind of discussion. So it's just the way we look at it, yep. I agree. >> Brahm, you want to come in on this? >> And I'm - I'm so reassured to hear discussion around you know, here such an amazing group of methodologists, trialists and general agreement that you know slave to the P value is not necessarily always the best approach. No doubt I think the same side it can be a slippery slope. And we certainly want to avoid over interpretation of trends in this sort of thing. So I think it - P value gives the journals that anchoring to avoid you know misinterpretation of study results. But there has to be some other framework that we can come up with that still recognizes situations where there is uncertainty. It does not overinterpret study results that don't need to be interpreted. But still recognizes that a P value you know, with confidence intervals that just hit no effect, or just go over might still be important for management. And so I think that's where it's - there's risk obviously with it. But there has to be a nuanced way of doing this. And a nuanced way of presenting it to readers. >> Sure I think Paul and Colin both want to come in. Paul? >> I was just going to make the point that I think it also depends, the nuanced interpretation depends on the potential risk of the intervention that you are evaluating so a low-risk intervention etc. You - you would take your something where the confidence interval does cross one. You may be more confident about I think Marianne said it on the non-inferiority sort of aspect that some interventions you may well push more on the non-inferiority or [inaudible] side. Rather than a more risky with potentially more side effects. You - you would be more reticent about interpreting a confidence interval that still crosses one. >> It's definitely the very reassuring [inaudible] profile in this trial is very helpful in this regard. And it does enable us I think to move more confidently in the direction of higher doses. Because of that safety profile, so that's been a very good part of this. I think we can learn to not look at P values. I think we just have to get used to the idea of posterior probabilities. And which level of confidence we're happy with. And we do aim pretty high probabilities when we're doing that. Well into the high '90's I think is kind of where people are comfortable with. And I think we can make that change. >> Sure, Anders you got to come back in. >> Yeah because I guess the case about uncertainty in a trial where it's so easy to assess and quantify the uncertainty for the statistical part. The uncertainty when it comes to risk of bias and generalizability is much more difficult to - to quantify. And therefore we probably discuss it less. So more of the discussion around trial interpretation should be around internal and external validity, which cannot be quantified. And therefore obviously it's - it's more difficult to discuss it. But I think that's for many trials is much more important than the - if the P value is 4% or 7%. But we have presently very limited framework to sort of quantify, and therefore discuss the uncertainties that lies in internal and external validity. >> Yeah I think Andrew ALT a statistician from Pittsburgh, we've been fortunate to have on with us and many times before, made a point similar to Paul's that basically the risk with Dex 12 milligrams doesn't appear to be high. And therefore it may well be a very valid thing to move to using 12 milligrams of Dexamethasone. [inaudible] frequent contributor to has made a nice comment on the livestream chat function interpretation of the nuances remain very difficult when we teach stats. A particular way to med student post-grad students and beyond. So if we move into a more nuanced era for interpreting trials, how do we teach that? How do we get that across because we're lucky to know we have real expertise? We've statisticians, methodologists, epidemiologists, trialists. But most of us clinicians don't have those skill sets. And Baloch perhaps I'll turn to you with that. >> I was just getting a hospital call there for a second. Sorry. The last question - I missed the last point. >> Sorry, so I was just reading a comment on the livestream chat function and a colleague in England, Jay Nesbitt, interpretation of the nuances remain very difficult when we teach stats a particular way to med student post graduate students and beyond. So we move into an era where we start with much more nuanced, appropriately nuanced interpretation of trial results. How do we teach everybody that? Because the majority of us trying to interpret these results are clinicians without a great background in statistics, unlike the panel we have tonight who an expert panel. >> I think it's a - it's an important issue. And I think the training needs to commence in a very early stage. A number of us don't get exposed to even being taught evidence-based medicine well into the training pathway. And very often people start to do this when they're doing their training projects. And I guess having these sorts of - having these training modules at a medical student level and then - and obviously once - once you know a different type of reporting becomes mainstream and people being able to attend journal clubs and it's all - it is all you know - it's all discussed in a different way in terms of posterior probability, and Bayesian methods. I think that's the only - I think it's just going to take time. and it has to happen for medical student, training at every journal club, at regular scientific meetings and then it becomes the norm. >> Sure I think Marianne you're going to come in there. Just before you come in, send your comment along those lines. I was reading one of those lovely BMJ statistic articles from a few decades ago. It was Doug Altman. And he was basically implying that a P value 0.054 should be interpreted pretty much very similar way to a P value of 0.06 and maybe we need to get that sort of information out to clinicians and the bulk of the - the healthcare work force who are working on these trial results, who don't have your expertise. >> If I could just chip in. I think it's really important that the training that's given to clinicians is more nuanced. Because actually you know it's quite often statisticians teaching, and statisticians don't have a dichotomy around P less than 0.05. And yet somehow it's - gone into the teaching that that might be the quick view. I think what we should be moving to teaching is work with - it's work with your statistical colleagues from the start. I think it's all about partnership working and everything. And therefore you know, shouldn't be doing to the clinician to make all the decisions including the stats. And it shouldn't be the statistician having to sort of [inaudible]. I think the quicker we need to - actually what we need to teach is team science. I think that would really be helpful. You're muted Rob. >> Colin can I ask, on this theme have you changed now to using 12 milligrams of Dexamethasone or are you still using 6, or do you have a nuanced answer? >> I think it's going to depend on the clinical circumstances. I think as pointed out, the situation with [inaudible] antagonist as a - as the current standard of care. And we don't know really where 12 milligrams fits in alongside that. I would say in the current global shortage we may find that patients who are either unable or for whatever reason to have it, then I think there's going to be a clear alternative. I think now given the safety profile here, and the very strong signal for benefits or in the absence of availability of [inaudible] receptor antagonist. I think it would definitely have a place alongside it. A lot more uncertain I think. That's probably as far as I could go in the moment. >> Okay and Sheila can I ask, have you started to use 12 milligrams of Dexamethasone as opposed to 6? >> Yes we have. But not across the board. In patients who are receiving IL6 inhibitors, we're still using low doses. But again there's a variation practice. But there is a trend using higher doses because we have seeing at rend was a benefit without any increased risk of adverse - without any difference in adverse events. So there is more confidence definitely to use 12 milligram. But with patients on IL6 I'm not sure. People tend to use 6 milligram of Dexamethasone. >> And Baloch you've been fortunate in Australia. You've avoided much of the worst of the pandemic. Have you started to use 12 where you would previously have used 6? >> Look I will - and thankfully but also of course in Queensland, we don't - we have got no Covid. So I've not had a chance to use Dexamethasone for some time. But if it does happen then I would be using 12. >> And Anders in Copenhagen? >> We've used it for some cases, mainly patients that could not for medical reasons were not - when it's appropriate for medical reasons to receive IL6 inhibitors, so we have used it. >> Okay. We're going to start coming towards the end of the discussion. So I'm just going to get one or two last questions. Paul there was a comment from a colleague of yours where is it [inaudible] it was about using a two-arm trial to answer a dose finding question. Maybe some of the panelists have seen that on Twitter as well. Should a different sort of trial design have been used? >> I mean a different trial design could have been used. But I think again, this could well have been. There are different adaptive approaches that could have been used I think. Such as randomized into multiple doses. You could be adapting by dropping those as you're going along for example. Through interim analysis. So there are more - but it's whether this is really a dose finding study or current standard of care against a more high dose which is - I'm not sure it was quite the dose finding study itself. >> Sure. And Brahm can I ask, and I might need Sheila to come in on this or Anders or Baloch. Does the timing of this trial make a difference? Was this trial pre-delta wave? And does the nature of the variant or strain of the virus at a time make a difference? >> Interesting hypothesis. I - I'm not convinced. And you know from my perspective is that I think no matter the variants is that the pathophysiology in terms of ARDS manifestation and the biologic rationale for any affected corticosteroids are going to have on decreasing inflammation in the lungs and inflammatory cytokines etc. is going to be synchronous and consistent across variants. In fact, you know we published an ICM fairly recently. I'm fairly convinced that this lesson learned around dosing and benefit of corticosteroids as we saw in Dexa ARDS applies to other etiologies of ARDS too. And you know the whole world is now treating ARDS from Covid with steroids. But still much reluctance of treating non-Covid ARDS with steroids just by positive results. We see much more variable practice. And so forget variant. I think - I know ARDS is a heterogeneous entity with multiple triggers and - and I don't underestimate that. But the end result in terms of pathophysiology is alveolitis and inflammation. And I think steroids are beneficial for ARDS. >> Super okay. We're coming to the end so what I'm going to do is I'm going to quickly go around to each of the panelists for a final few words. Colin you're the furthest away, all the way out there in beautiful Oakland. I'll start with you please. >> Well I think overall we've had a great discussion. And thanks to the research team for bringing this forward. We've got another important step on the journey of optimal treatment for Covid 19. Still many questions to come. But I think thank you for taking another step along the journey. I'd also, I think this discussion is illustrated we're also moving along a journey of trial design and how it can best utilize our skills to find answers that are useful for clinicians. And I think that's as much part of the journey as well. >> Super thank you. Paul? >> I couldn't agree more. Huge congratulations to the trial team and thanks to Rob and all the panelists and are in for the wonderful editorial. It's a great - a great panel and a great sort of forum to discuss these really important studies. >> It certainly is a superb panel. Brahm in Canada, any last comments about this in our interpretation? >> None Rob, just humbled to be a part of this group and be able to share my insights, and very appreciative for the invitation. Thank you. >> Thank you. Marianne final thoughts? >> Final thoughts are I'm sad that Anders feels disappointed. I think that's my last thing. This is not a negative trial, and we need to take the positives, and learn from it. And well done. >> Sheila? >> Thank you very much Rob. And critical care use team and [inaudible] and the Covid Steroid 2 team for giving me the opportunity. This is a very important trial for us to do in India. You know doing a randomized control trial it's across so many sides and leaving us in the midst of a pandemic was really a challenge in India. And it was very interesting to do this with the Scandinavian countries and other European countries and in India where the infection rates, the setting and the healthcare infrastructure is so different. So this was very exciting for me. And I think the results are very important especially for India after the Delta wave and the increased case of mucomycosis. This question was - this - to have this answer was very important for us about the dosing. So I was very happy to be a part of it and thank you all of you. Thank you. >> Super Baloch your last thoughts? >> Rob thank you. Look firstly it's been a great privilege for me to have been part of this team and to have worked on this trial. Just to add, one of the questions you asked was about the delta wave question before. In fact, the delta wave sort of kicked off in India some time in February and March. And that's when the enrollment actually into the trial jumped big time. So and the enrollment did not complete the last patient was randomized on the 20th, 24th of May. So there were about three months where the delta wave was rampant in India and a number of patients were enrolled in India. So I think hopefully that - we have a number of pre-delta variants as well as forced delta wave patients coming into the trial. But I think - I think the other key thing is having done the trial in several different healthcare systems I think it increases the external validity of the trial. I think that's a very important and the consistency of results across the region is very important. And so I'm confident this trial will change practice. >> Thanks Baloch and of course we'll have Bariff Coomer joining us in just a moment to discuss the challenges of undertaking research during a pandemic and the experiences he and Baloch have had in running the hope trial. So we'll finish this section of the live stream with Anders who of course, led the CS2 trial. >> Thanks a million Rob and - and thanks for hosting us and thank you for everything you do for the critical care community that is truly amazing. So thanks a million guys. I love this discussion. Marianne I'm not disappointed. I was frustrated with the publication process. That's all. I'm a very happy man. I have new friends in India. It's been amazing to work with Sheila and Baloch and all the colleagues there. I sincerely hope that we can continue to do trials and research together and build an even stronger friendship. Thank you to my old friend Baloch for being part of this and helping to alliance between Europe and India. Thank you to the panel. Thank you to not everyone, but almost everyone including the full team at old sites, the team at George Institute and [inaudible]; so I'm a very happy man Marianne, no worries. >> Fantastic. And of course the paper is out in JAMA along with Colin's editorial written as I mentioned with Lisa and Steve Webb. So if you haven't yet seen it, please go to the JAMA website, download those and have a read. Fantastic - fantastic articles.