>> So, quickly a few comments. This is well done and well perfect randomized controlled trial and it's a model for everybody I think who want to perform a randomized trial. This real patients so think we can check for all or quite all our ICU patients. I think of one of the strengths is the standard of care. I think probably the [inaudible] because everything is well done today. The protocolized of weaning, of SBT of include patient and everything has been followed by the physician including the patient. And the first example to say that is the real difference between extubation of patient in a house strategy and control arms so this is really interesting and really well done. I only have a few comments. The first is probably that only a few patients are involved in in this study because most of the patients are [inaudible]. So we have to keep in mind this is not an ICU patient, it's different to wean ICU patient. The second problem is that it's negative. Yeah, it's one more negative study in ICU. But it's not so negative and two points. First you see that NIVs more and more used in ICU but at least inference. Talking about NIV outside of COPD of something like that is dirty work. So the first thing I want to do is NIV do not kills patient when an NIV is well done. So probably some measure point of your measure results of your trials. The other point negative but it's negative if we talk of all the patients and probably all the patient are not the same according to the rhythm way they felt SBT. So if their lung, or their heart, or their brain and maybe we can move for what selecting the good patient. Maybe we can ask the choice of the patient if they want to be extubate and spend more time on an NIV or to be mend with a tube. I think we can do something like, that. In any way you [inaudible]. And I think more and more study are agreeing to come in this area because your breaks of dogma. So for this congratulations and we know that one more study is ongoing. So this is a real non-ending study. Thank so much. [ Applause ]