In this video, we'll review examination findings of two individuals with tremor. The first patient has essential tremor and the second patient has Parkinson disease. tremor. Here you can see a patient with essential tremor. The distinctive characteristic of essential tremor is an action tremor, which is a tremor that occurs with any voluntary movement of the body and can be assessed by holding arms outstretched or finger to nose, testing. Nice and slow like that. Patients with essential tremor rarely have a resting tremor and if they do, it may be suppressed by performing a mental task such as spelling a word backwards. Her tremor decreases when doing the cognitive task of spelling the word “world” backward. Can you spell it backwards? No. Do your best. D l o r w. Okay. Symptoms of essential tremor typically begin in one upper extremity, but progress to involve both sides of the body, whereas symptoms of Parkinson disease, particularly tremor, remain asymmetrical for the course of the disease. If you look at the patient's right arm, we see some intermittent tremor at rest. There is more consistent head tremor, which is not uncommon in essential tremor, but is not typical in Parkinson disease. She has an action tremor, as shown by more pronounced tremor when her hands are elevated, brought closer to the body, and in finger to nose testing. Same thing with your other hand. It is also important to note that the patient exhibits normal spontaneous facial expressions and has regular eye blink frequency. Okay, good. Here, while the patient performs spiral drawings with her hand unsupported, there's a rhythmic tremor that makes it difficult to smoothly stay within the spiral lines. Here's a patient with Parkinson disease. In contrast to patients with essential tremor, those with Parkinson disease typically have a tremor at rest that increases with mental tasks. Can you spell the word “world” for me. W-O-R-L-D. Okay. Can you spell it backwards? D-L-R-O-W. Do you remember those three words I told you earlier? Apple, table, and penny. In the earlier phases of Parkinson disease, tremor may affect only one side of the body. As you can see, this patient has a unilateral resting tremor affecting his left arm and leg. His facial expression is masked, and there is a paucity of eye blinking during the entire segment. All right, now I want you to take your right hand and tap your fingers as big and fast as you can. On pattern motor tasks such as finger tapping, bradykinesia is evident with decrease in both amplitude and speed of movements. Okay, can you tap them any faster than that? Now hold both your hands out in front of you and open and close them. With holding hands outstretched, there's a transient cessation of tremor before reemergence.