[Automatically generated] From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Oncology Author Interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in JAMA Oncology. Hello, and welcome to JAMA Oncology Podcast. I'm Dr. Vivek Subbiah, Medical Oncologist, Chief Early Phase Drug Development at Sarah Cannon Research Institute, Nashville, Tennessee. And I'm also the JAMA Oncology Podcast Host for today, and the Web Editor for JAMA Oncology. Today, it is my pleasure and honor to have Dr. Katrina Goddard from the Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences, National Cancer Institute, National Institute of Health, who is a lead author on the paper, Contribution of Prevention, Screening, and Treatment to Cancer Debts, averted from 1975 to 2020. Welcome to JAMA Oncology Podcast, Dr. Goddard. Thank you so much for having me here today. I'm really glad to have the opportunity to speak about this manuscript. Can you please go ahead, introduce yourself and also tell us a little bit about your background? Yes. I am the Director of the Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences at the National Cancer Institute. And my background is actually in genetic epidemiology, but I've studied cancer research from a variety of perspectives, including how to move new discoveries into clinical practice and understanding the underlying etiology of disease. So our division really spans the entire cancer control continuum from cancer prevention all the way through cancer survivorship. And this manuscript is really an opportunity for us to think about how the entire cancer control continuum is contributing to reductions in cancer mortality. So can you share with our broad listeners the inspiration behind this study? What motivated you and your team to explore the contributions of prevention, screening, and treatment to cancer death reductions over such a long period of time? So we know that cancer mortality has been declining over the past several decades, but we really wanted to understand what is contributing to those reductions in cancer mortality. And really, our goal as the National Cancer Institute is to continue to reduce the burden of cancer in the United States population and worldwide. And so we wanted to look at our history over the past 45 years and understand what has contributed to these reductions in mortality as a way to help us think about the future and where we want to go, where do we need to go, what investments need to be made, so that we can continue to make a difference and reduce the cancer burden further. Thank you so much. Can you provide more details on the specific models and parameters used by the CISNET, which is the Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network, to estimate the number of cancer deaths averted? When we look at cancer mortality, it is a combination of multiple factors that are contributing to this overall reduction. You can understand, for example, if you are able to prevent cancer from happening in the first place, you will reduce cancer incidence, and by reducing cancer incidence, this will have an impact on cancer mortality. Cancer screening can also contribute to a reduction in mortality in a couple of ways. First, in some cases, like with cervical cancer screening and colorectal cancer screening, we are able to remove cancer precursors during the cancer screening. And this is called cancer interception. So, we are able to actually prevent those cancers from happening by removing the precursors before they develop into cancer. Screening also contributes to a reduction in mortality by shifting the stage at which cancer is detected. So if we are able to detect cancer earlier, we may have a better chance of treating that cancer and having better survival. And then finally, over the past several decades, we've really seen tremendous improvements in cancer treatments. And this has really impacted cancer survival for a variety of cancer sites. So taken together, what the modelers are able to do is to partition those reductions in cancer mortality into the components of prevention, screening, and treatment based on those patterns that they observe in terms of cancer, and they observe is the incidence declining or mortality declining or how are the shifts in stage happening. How did your study specifically account for potential synergies between the different interventions, that is, the combined impact of screening and treatment advances in the calculation of the cancer that's averted? So we account for the synergy between the various interventions by doing the modeling under a variety of scenarios. So we look at the model in the absence of all interventions, and then we look at the model in terms of having prevention in the presence of treatment, and then looking at prevention without the presence of treatment. And so by comparing the different models, we're able to tease out the reductions in mortality that are due to just the specific intervention that we're interested in. So in this project, throughout the research, was there any particular finding or statistic that surprised you the most? And could you tell us more about it and why it stood out to you? In this project, we were doing modeling for five different kinds of cancer, colorectal cancer, breast cancer, cervical cancer, lung cancer, and prostate cancer. As you've mentioned, we looked over a period of 45 years from 1975 to 2020. During this time frame, we were able to observe nearly six million deaths averted from the combination of all of these interventions. I think we had a sense that cancer prevention and screening had a major impact, but what was surprising to me was the magnitude of the impact. So we observed eight out of ten of the deaths averted were due to cancer prevention and screening. I think being able to quantify this is something that is unique to this paper, that we're able to look at this in a quantitative way across these five cancer types. On that note, the paper mentions that the contribution of prevention, screening, and treatment varied significantly by cancer site. Could you elaborate on why certain cancers, such as breast and cervical cancer, showed a different pattern in the effectiveness of these interventions? What we observed for breast cancer is actually treatment had the largest impact in the reduction in mortality over this time frame. About 25 percent of the reductions in mortality were from prevention and screening, and 75 percent of the reductions were from treatment. Then looking at a different scenario for cervical cancer, the modeling demonstrated that nearly 100 percent of the reduction in mortality was due to cancer prevention and screening. So these are the two ends of the spectrum in this manuscript. And the reasons why we're able to see these differences is really because of the availability of advancements in treatment for breast cancer that we really have not been able to see over that timeframe for cervical cancer. So it really depends on the availability of the different interventions across the cancer types in terms of the proportion of these contributing factors of prevention, screening, and treatment to reductions in mortality for each cancer site. So let's talk about some real world impact. So how do you think the findings of your study can be utilized by policy makers, health care teams, and the general public to further reduce cancer mortality rates? Any specific actions or strategies that you and your team would recommend? Yeah, that's a great question. So this study was really intended to motivate us to help think about the future and how can we leverage this kind of modeling to help us think about where should we make investments in the future, what kinds of interventions might have the greatest impact in the future towards helping us continue to reduce the burden of cancer. So I'd like to see this same kind of modeling be used and projecting ahead. There are known gaps in what we are able to achieve at the moment in terms of being able to get these interventions to different populations. So that is one example where we could see an improvement by being able to expand access to these interventions and model what would the impact be if we were able to achieve these interventions at a greater population level. It can also help us understand where there's opportunity, perhaps, to do more with treatment versus prevention. There may be other cancer types where the opposite is true, where we are able to achieve more of a reduction in mortality through prevention than through treatment. These five cancer types account for about 51% of all cancer cases. So there are still several different cancer sites that were not included in this study, where further modeling with those cancer sites would really help us to understand how to make the best impact in those cases. So the study mentions several limitations, including what you mentioned, the exclusion of certain high mortality cancers, and generalizability of the results to groups experiencing cancer disparities. So, how do you suggest future research from your group and others should address these limitations to provide a more comprehensive understanding of cancer mortality reduction globally? Yeah, we really need to be able to develop the models for more cancer sites. And the models that we used in this manuscript are really well established, and they rely on the CISNET Consortium. CISNET has been in existence for about 20 years, and one of the strengths of the CISNET program is that they do comparative modeling. So, they build more than one model for each cancer type. And then when they do the modeling, they're able to compare their results across the models. And this gives us greater confidence and reassurance that the models are actually providing accurate results. So, I think being able to broaden the number of cancer sites for which we have models would really be something I'd like to see happen so that we can continue to do this modeling. Thank you so much. So, you spoke about CISNET. So again, many of our listeners at JAMA Oncology may not be knowing what is CISNET. Can you just give us a brief elevator pitch on what is CISNET? So, CISNET is the Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network. And this is an NCI funded network of researchers that has been in existence for nearly 20 years. These groups are each developing models based on our understanding of the natural history of the condition, as well as our understanding from the literature about the impact of various interventions. So, they incorporate into their models prevention strategies, screening strategies, as well as treatments. And then they're able to project out over time what is happening for that cancer site. And it really helps us to understand different scenarios that might be almost impossible to conduct a clinical study on or a clinical trial on because of the length of time that it might take to do those studies or various other reasons why we couldn't actually conduct that study. The models really give us a different way of looking at data and being able to understand what the potential impact could be. So before we conclude, let's talk about some future directions and take home points about your study. So based on your study's conclusions, what are the next steps for research in this field? Are there any emerging trends in technologies, in cancer prevention, in screening, and treatment that you're particularly excited about? And for our audience members who might be personally affected by cancer or directly, indirectly, through a loved one or friend, what message of hope and key takeaway would you like to share with them based on your research findings? I think the message of hope is that we are seeing a decline in cancer mortality, and more people are living with cancer or living as cancer survivors for longer periods of time. So that is what is exciting, and I think we will continue to see cancer mortality decline in the future. What's exciting about this study is that it gives us the tools and the opportunity going forward, looking into the future, to understand what are our best approaches to reducing that cancer mortality further. It helps us to make choices amongst all the things that we could do that will give us the most reduction in cancer mortality. So, this sort of modeling, I think, really helps us make decisions and make informed decisions so that we can have the most impact in reducing the burden of cancer in the future. Oh, thank you so much. To our listeners, I'm Vivek Subbiah, and I've been speaking with Dr. Katrina Goddard from the National Cancer Institute on her paper, Contribution of Prevention, Screening, and Treatment to Cancer Deaths Averted from 1975 to 2020. This episode was produced by Shelly Stevens at the JAMA Network. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training and similar technologies.