Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to JAMAMA Evidence, our podcast series based on core issues in evidence-based medicine. Today we're discussing factorial clinical trials. I'm your host, Dr. Roger Lewis, senior statistical editor for JAMAMA and editor of the JAMAMA guide to statistics and methods series. I'm here with Dr. Jod Cholino. Dr. Chelino, could you go ahead and introduce yourself for our audience? >> Sure. I'm an associate professor in the department of preventive medicine within the division of biostatistics and informatics at Northwestern University. I've been here since 2013, so nearly 12 years, and I'm affiliated with a collaboration center there and a coordinating center there. >> Great. Thank you so much for joining us. So, you wrote a very nice article on factorial clinical trials. So, let's start at the beginning. What is a factorial clinical trial? >> Sure. It's essentially a study where participants can be randomized to receive multiple interventions at the same time. And so usually researchers use this to try to conduct essentially multiple trials at once. >> So if participants can receive multiple interventions at a time, how does this compare to conducting different trials of each of the interventions? So in a typical trial, if you're testing just one intervention, you might randomize participants to a control and then an active intervention. And in a factorial design in sort of the simplest setup, we usually call this a 2x two factorial where you have two interventions. So you might randomize participants to control condition for the first intervention you want to test or you could randomize them to the experimental condition. And then similarly you could randomize participants to control for the second intervention or experimental for the second intervention. >> So how many treatment groups does that give us? >> So in that example the 2x two factorial it will be four treatment groups. Control control control experimental experimental control and experimental experimental. >> So this sounds a bit more complicated than a typical trial. What is the value in doing this? Typically the value in doing this is you kind of get two trials in one. So for the same participants, the same resources, the same efforts for one trial, you can test two interventions. And usually it's on efficacy. Are these interventions working in a patient population? >> So if you're randomizing participants to four different treatment conditions, what do the results look like? And how do we organize our thinking in order to interpret them? So you can envision your results as a table where you have participants in a 2x two table and you have cells A, B, C, D. And cell A would be participants in control for the first comparison you're looking at and participants in control for the second comparison that you're looking at. Cell B would be control for number one and experiment for number two. Cell C would be experimental for number one, control for number two, and cell D would be both the experimental. So you have participants that are kind of aggregated to one of these four groups. And so when you want to look to see if your first experimental condition is efficacious, you sort of collapse things across the cells. So you combine A and B, and that's your full control group for your first comparison. Then you combine C and D. That's your full experimental group for your first comparison. And then you take a look at whatever your outcome is. Say it's a response to your treatment among those individuals in A plus B and among those individuals in C plus D. And that helps you understand what's happening with that first intervention. And then to look at that second intervention, kind of do the same thing, but now you're collapsing across your rows. and you combined A and C and B and D and do the same sort of comparison. >> What do we call those comparisons where we've combined groups that are receiving different allocations to the treatment that we're not looking at specifically? >> So there are a couple of terms that are floating around. Oftentimes we call those the main effects or the marginal effects. We call them marginalss because you're kind of collapsing them and summing them up in the margins. if we're doing that sort of analysis and let's focus on the first of the two interventions that we're looking at. So some of the control patients for that first intervention actually did receive the second intervention and some didn't. >> Mhm. >> And some of the participants receiving the experimental intervention, the first one that is did or did not receive the second intervention. So how does that complicate the analysis or the interpretation of the results? So there's a glaring assumption for most factorial designs is that there's no what we call interaction term. So we often assume that there is no interaction between the two experimental conditions. Assuming that's okay, we can usually revert our analyses to very simple analyses, things like a t test or potentially a linear model. Now if there is this interaction things get complicated very quickly and we have to account for or try to evaluate what that interaction might be. >> So let's take one step backward and and clarify for our listeners what is an interaction in this context. So an interaction might be that if you have your let's say our second intervention we have a control group or an experimental group in that second intervention an interaction simply would mean that within the control group I observe an intervention effect for my experimental condition number one. But then in my experimental group for that second intervention, I observe a different effect when I look at control one versus experimental one. And so that is an interaction in that those two effects are not the same. >> So essentially an interaction exists when one of the treatments changes how much of an effect the first treatment has. >> Right? But even in the setting where there's no interaction, the control patients for the first intervention that received the second intervention might have different outcomes because the second intervention might work. How do we handle that? >> So typically we would do something like including a variable in a linear model for the group to which they were assigned. So it's akin to sort of adjusting for in a linear model. So you would or doing a stratified sort of analysis and then you would kind of pull your analyses across those strata for your estimated mean effect. >> So in estimating the effect of say the first treatment we're interested in, you do have to know what the participants received as far as the second treatment. Is that fair? >> Yes. So if the strength of the factorial design is that you essentially get two answers for the price of one, what are the downsides? >> Well, it's a big assumption to assume that there's no interaction between your two interventions. And as things get more complicated, you could be testing more than two interventions. And so then the the interaction terms get even more complicated. And while you might have statistical power to look at your marginalss or your main effects for each of your interventions, typically in a trial like this, power for those interaction terms doesn't exist or it's very very low. So that's one drawback is that you have a big assumption on interaction that it doesn't exist, but you usually need to test for it and see if you have evidence of it, but that test is underpowered. And we know it's underpowered. >> And so by underpowered, you mean there might be an interaction, but we still couldn't prove it, >> right? So another drawback here would be that if you're monitoring for safety, there could be a complex interplay between your two interventions that might be hard to uncouple or really understand. So whoever on the clinical side is monitoring the study you know from the outset and on ongoing basis you'd want to make sure that they would understand the mechanism of action or their hypothesized mechanism of action for both of your interventions to really evaluate whether we have any sort of true drug interaction or intervention intervention interactions >> and that interaction could be on either the efficacy or the safety side as you're pointing out. >> Right. Right. So let's suppose you run a factorial trial because you want to assess the effect of two different interventions and you make the assumption that there's no interaction and therefore the effect of one intervention doesn't depend on the other intervention being given to the patient. But then when you look at the data it actually looks like it does that for example the second treatment works much better if the first treatment was given. What do you do then? report it. Typically, there are guidelines that are out there. So, the extension of the consort guidelines that many of us might be familiar with talk about best practices and reporting these sorts of trials, but typically you want to report what we call potential hints of heterogeneity of treatment effect. And usually that is done via what we call a forest plot where you across your different strata or across your different experimental conditions you report your effect and your confidence limits there. It is very difficult to interpret these main effects or these marginal effects in the presence of what might be perceived as an interaction. So you have to kind of dive down into those individual cells. >> When you do present the apparent treatment effects for one of the interventions with or without the other intervention, the differences you see might be just quantitative or they might be qualitative. Can you explain that to our listeners and how that might change how you report the results? >> Sure. So qualitative would be the effect of let's say the second intervention is in opposite directions depending upon whether the first intervention group received control versus they received experimental. They're in sort of opposite directions. Maybe one is in a positive direction and the other is in a negative direction as far as the efficacy of that second intervention. So that's qualitative. That's it's easier to see in your data because it's a stark difference. But the quantitative interaction is something that is a little bit trickier to see and even more difficult to test statistically because they're typically going in the same direction but one is larger than the other. So you know if you're in control group one and you're looking at control group two versus experimental two, you might have a hint of a positive effect. If you're in experimental group one and you're experimental two, maybe it's a positive effect, but it's much larger in magnitude. So that's a quantitative interaction. >> Now, with respect to the clinical interpretation of the results, obviously the qualitative interaction is much more important because it could make the difference between a treatment being indicated versus actually being harmful. >> That would be my assumption. Yes. um not being a clinician myself. >> Now, in your article, you specifically mention an example of a trial published in JAMMA that used a factorial approach. Uh maybe you could describe that trial a little bit for us, what they did, and what they found. >> Sure. This shorthand name for the trial is called the basics trial. It's a balanced solution versus saline intensive care study. This was a 2x two factorial trial and it was looking at participants or patients who were critically ill and admitted to the intensive care unit. I want to say it was across 75 centers in Brazil. It involved over 11,000 individuals and the two interventions that they were looking at had to do with introvenous infusion for patients who are critically ill. So the two interventions they were testing were the speed of the infusion. So slow versus fast. My very crude nonclinical understanding is that the faster infusion rate is considered the control rate. And then the other intervention was the composition of the solution. And so they had what they call the balanced solution versus a saline solution. And again my understanding is that the saline here is considered the control condition. what was the outcome they were looking at? >> So, they were looking at 90day survival in critically ill participants. >> This is obviously a very ambitious trial and given the resources that they were investing, it obviously made good sense to try to answer two separate questions regarding fluid administration rather than just one and then have to do an entirely new trial of this magnitude to answer the second question. With that in mind, what did they find? So first they evaluated whether it looked like they had any sort of hint of interaction between those two interventions and in fact the statistical test came up insignificant and they felt then confident in reporting basically two different trials as they've essentially done two trials in one for the intervention related to uh balanced solution versus the saline solution. The 90-day mortality rates were very comparable. So of the participants randomized to balance solution, they observed just over a 26% mortality rate versus those in the saline solution group, they observed just over a 27% mortality rate. So that comparison when they did their survival analysis turned out that it was not statistically significant. And then they had comparable results when they were examining the speed of intervention. So right around 27% for both of the infusion rates and again that was not significant. So this is sort of absence of evidence of an effect for either the speed or the composition of the solution in these patients. >> And you specifically mentioned that before doing their primary analysis on each of the interventions they first tested for the interaction. Is that typical? I would say it's varied. Again, there are guidelines out there. The most important one is to prespecify what you plan to do in the order of operations and then stick to that plan, a prespecified plan. So, in this case, the authors appropriately do that. So, it it's typical to test for the interaction ahead of time, but it's not always necessarily recommended, especially if you're pretty confident that there is no evidence of an interaction. So what are some of the other limitations or challenges associated with a factorial trial? >> It's hard to randomize participants in general. Um it's hard to recruit participants for studies and people tend to get even sometimes a little bit more anxious when they find that they might not only be randomized to one intervention, they might be randomized to multiple interventions. And so that might cause a little bit of angst and logistical challenges as well because not only do you have to worry about are participants going to agree to do this but also are they going to adhere to both interventions or whoever is delivering the intervention are they able to adhere to that intervention. So in addition, I mean we talked a little bit already about some of the complexity of the mechanism of action for multiple interventions and understanding the safety profile, the compounding safety profile, but this adds to some of the complexity of interim decision-m when we're talking about early signals for efficacy or early signals for safety. That's already a complex decision in your simple two study arm randomized trial. It always requires a lot of thought and making decisions to continue or not continue one intervention, but now we've added another potentially even more interventions in these factorial designs. And so it it just compounds the complexity here when we're monitoring the study on an ongoing basis and trying to make realtime decisions on protocols. So, one of the things that has struck me about the use of factorial trials is that it's really the only way to systematically examine multiple treatments that we actually expect to be used together in clinical practice. What do you think about that? >> I'd say that's exactly right. It's sometimes so while we often assume that there is no interaction and we're kind of getting two trials in one, it actually allows us to test that interaction if that is the goal. And you know it's not uncommon in a very real world pragmatic sense for patient populations to be on more than one intervention or have interventions you know one right after the other or at the same time. So these types of designs allow us to evaluate what might actually be going on in the real world a bit better. So Jody, what are the key takeaways for our listeners >> when considering whether a factorial design is right? The first is it can be very efficient. You get multiple trials for the price of one, the resources, etc. of one. That said, it requires careful consideration and thought around potential intervention interactions. And I guess finally making sure that we're following appropriate guidelines for conducting and reporting on these sorts of studies. I'm Roger Lewis and I've been speaking with Dr. Jod Cholino about factorial clinical trial designs. You can find a link to her article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Daniel Msisi at the JAMAMA network. To follow this and other Jamama Network podcasts, please visit us online at jammanetworkaudio.com or search for Jamma Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.