From the Jamba Network, this is the Jamba Medical News podcast discussing timely topics in clinical medicine, biomedical sciences, public health, and health policy, featured in the medical news section of JAMA. On today's show, we're discussing the US Food and Drug Administration's recent approval of oral simaglotide, marketed as the WGOI pill, for the treatment of obesity in adults. I'm Jennifer Bossi, director of Jamba Medical News. Associate managing editor Kate Schweitzer is here to tell us about this news. Kate, thanks for joining. >> Thanks, Jen. So, tell us about the new AGO pill. Obesity experts have called its release a defining moment in the treatment of the condition. It's the first and only oral GLP-1 receptor agonist for weight loss in adults. It was approved by the FDA in late December and as of early January, the once daily pill is now broadly available througharmacies around the nation. Up until then, the GLP-1 drug had only been available for weight loss as a weekly injection. For reference, the drug maker Novon Nordisk has had a simaglletide pill approved for type 2 diabetes since 2019. Now, the FDA approval comes after a 64-week phase 3 clinical trial. participants lost an average of 14% of their body weight compared with about 2% in the placebo group. And the trial found that the pill's efficacy at the highest dose is on par with the highest dose of the WGO injection which led to weight reductions of about 15% over a similar time period in its pivotal trial. >> So tell us about the differences between the new pill and the injection. So the pill is taken daily and it's swallowed and absorbed through the digestive system and the injection is administered weekly and it enters the body subcutaneously in the abdomen, thigh or upper arm. Adverse effects like gastrointestinal issues did appear similar in the trial, but one obesity expert I spoke with believes GI symptoms like nausea may be more notable with the pill. Now, both versions offer a gradual dose escalation schedule, but the exact regimen varies. The recommendation for people taking the WGO injection is to start with 0.25 mg and increase every 4 weeks until reaching their maintenance dose, typically 2.4 millig. Now, with the oral option, the starting dose is 1.5 millig and it's increased every 30 days up to 25 mg daily. So the doses in the pill are much larger, but that's because less of the medication reaches the bloodstream this way. This is where the biggest demarcation comes in. To maximize absorption, the pill requires strict timing adherence. It must be taken first thing in the morning on an empty stomach with no more than 4 ounces of water. Then individuals must wait at least 30 minutes before eating or drinking anything else or taking any other medications. Varying from this may hinder its effectiveness. And remember, this is every day. By comparison, the injection should simply be taken on the same day each week. But there are other benefits to the pill. For starters, it's less expensive. The injection prices were recently lowered to about $349 per month, but the pill costs between $149 to $299 per month, depending on the dose. And from an access standpoint, pills are cheaper and easier to make. They'll be able to scale much more easily because they'll run into far fewer production shortages or storage issues that come with injections which require refrigeration. Those are some important differences that could have major implications for patients. Did you get a sense from the experts you spoke with as to which form of WGOI they'd recommend? The overarching sentiment is that it comes down to personal preference. Those who fear needles, for instance, may opt for the pill, while those who want more flexibility may opt for the less strict injection. Of course, decision-making might come down to affordability and insurance coverage. Among the clinicians I spoke with, if all things were equal, they'd still recommend the injection for now. Real world data will help to determine if the average weight loss with the pill can be maintained outside of a controlled environment of a trial. See, in trials, people know they're being studied and they're doing their very best. In everyday practice, some might not be able to manage the pill's rigid requirements and therefore may not experience the full weight loss benefits they might more reliably get with the injection. Thanks, Kate. All right, if you'd like to learn more, we'll include a link to Kate's story in the show description. This week, we also published a story on changes to the federal government's childhood and adolescent immunization schedule. You can find that and all of our stories on jammedicalnews.com. Thanks to Kate Schwitzer for joining me. I'm Jennifer Bossi for Jamba Medical. This episode was produced by Daniel Morrow at the Jamba Network. To follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online at jambaetworkaudio.com. Thanks for listening and join us again next week. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.