(bright music) - Intensive care is an incredibly human experience where family members trust their loved ones in times of absolute peril to complete strangers. Hi, my name's Derek Angus. I am a senior editor at JAMA, and I'm also chair of the Department of Critical Care Medicine here at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and the UPMC Health system. I'd like to talk about five big ideas for improving the care for the critically ill patient. Number one, earlier detection. We already do early detection for classic critical illness syndromes. Consider sepsis. There have been huge gains in the last 20 years by trying to get hospitals to raise their index of suspicion for when someone might be getting septic. But I'm not talking about earlier detection in the hospital. Most sepsis is community acquired. We are trying to save hours in the hospital for a condition that could have started four or five days earlier at home, but we have no system for picking up who's potentially days away from sepsis out in the community. One can imagine we could build such a system with advances in smart technology, with changing awareness. Should someone contact a pharmacy or contact an outpatient setting and so on. If we could pull this off, it could be completely game changing. Number two, speeding recovery. There's been a really amazing set of advances in the care of acute respiratory failure and shock, such that we can now rapidly fix shock, and we can quite rapidly, in many patients, fix acute respiratory failure and get the patient off the ventilator. But then the patient is still often left with residual organ dysfunction, such as acute kidney injury or altered mental status or delirium. And amazingly, these organs look normal. They're not obviously injured, so why are they not working? We have no idea. If we could find that wake up and go home juice, it would change the face of managing critical illness. Number three, integrating smart technology. Many people think of the ICU as just absolutely all about technology and often traditionally, invasive technology like Swan-Ganz catheters, et cetera. We've really been getting rid of many of the invasive monitors and replacing them with far smarter, non-invasive monitors. There's so much we can capture non-invasively. Many of these technologies already exist, and yet, they're not widely used, in part because we have not tackled issues of transportability and standards of the data. So the machines don't talk to each other. They don't integrate with the EHR. You can't look at them across multiple different hospitals. That's a huge wasted opportunity. If we could accelerate the integration of these technologies, we could get great advances in the management of critical illness, not just in the ICU, but this would also accelerate our capacity to monitor critical illness outside the ICU, the long held aspirational goal of the ICU without walls. Number four, keeping humans at the center of intensive care. For all that we talk about technology in the ICU, anyone working in intensive care knows that it is an intensely human experience. Intensive care is caring intensely. That requires incredible trust, transparency, and amazing communication skills to understand needs, hopes, desires, and so on. And it totally happens, but healthcare systems need it to happen 100% of the time, even when intensive care professionals may be prone to burnout and so on. And so that leaves open a hugely important research agenda to find and discover and then implement strategies that ensure perfect long-term communication and human-to-human interaction in the ICU. Number five, making a valuation of what works, fit for purpose. When intensive care began, intensive care was trying to address things like, could we use an iron lung to save the life of someone struck by polio? Or should we give streptomycin for someone with severe pneumonia due to tuberculosis? These were questions of asking option A versus option B in a homogenous population. And how would we know the answer? We would do a two arm trial. The classic parallel group randomized trial. Today in intensive care, patients can have 50 things written in the admission orders when they're admitted to the ICU, and then 10 new things change every day. A two arm trial does not make sense to isolate the effect of any one decision over any other. There are complex tools arising in other fields using artificial intelligence to comb across complex spaces and tease out the incremental effects of an individual choice against a background of hundreds of possibilities. Seeing how to safely and pragmatically bring complex artificial intelligence tools that can still include randomization into healthcare in general and intensive care in particular is going to be a fascinating topic over the next 10 years. I think making headway in any of these big five ideas would pay huge dividends for caring for critically ill patients. (bright music)