- AI is potentially as transformative as things like gene therapy or genomics more broadly in its capacity to really change how we do almost everything that we in medicine do. I'm Roy Perlis, I'm a physician scientist and editor of JAMA AI and here are five big ideas at the intersection of AI and health. AI is here. Just because AI is the flavor of the month doesn't mean it can't also be transformative. We've come a long way from the days when AI was driving a robot around a maze, but now what we need is evidence that it can actually change care. But just because we're impatient doesn't mean it's not gonna come, think of gene and cell therapy, which for many years were right around the corner and always would be, until they actually arrived, I think we're at the same place in AI. You know more than you think. Clinicians and scientists already know 90% of what we need to know in order to evaluate AI in the clinic, whether it's as a diagnostic tool or for decision support or even as a treatment, the reality is that what we need to understand is how does this work in the real world? And we have a lot of those tools. I don't need to be able to build the transformer model or even understand all the math, to read a clinical trial, to see how well did this work. What was the benefit? In what groups was their benefit? Where should we deploy this technology? And I think that's the key thing to stress, is that while the tools themselves are changing, the way that we think about them, while it needs to evolve, hasn't changed that much. So in short, we need to remember that AI in medicine is still part of medicine. Bias is a problem. A lot of the language models that we use are trained on the internet and the internet is a dark, dark place, but even models that don't rely on internet text increasingly are trained using health records and data from health systems and unfortunately, the risk there is that we just transfer all the biases in our health systems into our models, that's the bad news. The good news is that increasingly investigators are aware of this kind of bias and thinking about how do we mitigate it? How do we test for it? And so, I think we need to ask not just, how well do things work? But, who do they work for? The translational valley of death is real, there's a huge gap between getting something to work once and getting it to work over and over and over again in production in the clinic. My own code works great for crunching numbers as long as I'm the only one using it, but I wouldn't wanna count on it to check vent settings or to detect metastatic disease on a brain MRI. Early on, I was giving a talk about using AI for health records and one of the scientists in the audience stood up and said, "Is this science or is this just engineering?" And the real answer is, this is both. The engineering is a critical part of using AI in the clinic, it's not just what is the algorithm, but it's how do we deploy it? How do we apply it in a way that it's actually gonna improve patient care? The algorithms are critically important, but they're only part of the process. Don't forget policy and education, as these new technologies play out, how do we regulate them? How much autonomy do we give them? Who's liable when an AI inadvertently harms a patient? So many important questions that need to be answered. The hope is that we can learn from medications, from devices, but we'll also need to carve our own path in terms of how this technology is different from those older technologies. Another area where AI in health is gonna be important is actually in medical education. How do we train the next generation of clinicians? How do we make sure we train them so we're not limiting them or constraining them with AI, but rather empowering them with AI? Those are just a few of the things that we'll be talking about in JAMA AI. The job of JAMA AI, the reason to do this experiment, is to make it easier for anyone with an interest in healthcare to get up to speed on these technologies and stay there. Part of that is what's new, what's important, what works, what doesn't. At the same time, JAMA AI is part of the JAMA Network and needs to stay true to its origins. We'll never lose sight of the fact that really it comes down to taking better care of patients. (buoyant music continues)