From the Jamama Network, this is Jamma Opthalmology author interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in Jamama Opthalmology. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to Jamba Opthalmology author interviews. Thank you for joining us. I'm Neil Brler, editor-inchief of Jamba Today we're going to look at the performance of foundation models compared with doctors in textual and multimodal opthalmological questions. And joining me is the corresponding author of that report, Dr. Darren Ting. Dr. Ting is with the University of Birmingham in the United Kingdom where he's an associate professor. Darren, thank you so much for joining us. >> Thank you, Neil, for having me today. It's very exciting. >> Maybe for our group, there are so many terms being used now in AI. You might be able to help us with just a simple definition. Let's just start with one of them and that is what's a foundation model for our opthalmologists who started their residency maybe before AI was really a thing. What's a foundation model? So foundation models are essentially a subtype of artificial intelligence where it utilize machine learning to generate output like a humanlike output based on a large scale of pre-trained data. It can be in the texture format or image format or noise. So that's the type of a what we call the foundation models. >> And before we get to what your investigation was, we're very used to looking at outcomes. for example of treating the retina. What's the visual acuity? We're used to glaucoma outcomes. What's the intraocular pressure? How do you measure the performance of a foundation model? What's the metric there? >> So for this particular studies, we examine the outcome based on the accuracy of the foundation model in answering written exams questions. So these written exams questions are created to assess the trainees clinical knowledge and reasoning to ensure that they meet the requirement for accreditation for specialists as an athmologist. For this work, we have utilized the F FRC or part two written exam questions. So to put in context, part two exam is exam for theologist in the UK. So they need to complete this successfully before they can complete their training. So this is one of the criteria. >> And for the textualbased questions, is that multiple choice? So there's just one answer, you have to say A, B, C, or D. or is it an open-ended question and the foundation model is going to give you some sentences for an answer? >> Yep. So for this work, the answer is in the multiplechoice questions where the foundation model will give an ABCD with a pre-populated answers and then we compare the answers provided by the foundation models against the doctors. >> And now a little more on your investigation. So textual means it's a written question. The usual here's a sentence. Here's the scenario. Would you do A, B, C, or D? What's multimodal? What was that all about? >> Exactly. Right. So for texture is basically questions based on texture information. Whereas multimodal extends beyond the texture. It can include either images, tables. For instance, in our paper. So in our paper for the multimodal questions we've included around 15 modalities. So ranging from cornea images, retina images or even hest chart for assessing eye movement or MRI brain scans. So these are considered multimodal questions in our work. So you're going to show for example a retina to the computer and say how would you manage this case A, B, C or D. Is that what you're doing? >> Yes, that's correct. For example, a multimodal question would be we give a clinical scenario. So this is a 35 year old gentleman presented with a painful red eye. Then how would you manage based on the image provided below? So we may show a picture of a cornia ulcer and then in the questions the answers options you have ABCD one might have antibiotics and one might have steroids and so forth so that we really testing the multimodal function of the foundation models >> and in opthalmology had that been done before I know that people have looked at giving multiple choice questions written questions to these foundation models to see how well they work compare with a human being answering them. Let's say a secondyear resident or maybe someone who's just gotten their opthalmology certification. But have these images been tested before in opthalmology? >> Uh to the best of our knowledge when we submitted the paper, I believe it's first of its kind to evaluate the performance of the foundation model against multimodal questions. So the way that this test has been done for texture of themology questions and we have completed that sort of work before like a year ago which was published in the plus digital health but we want to take it a further step extending from our previous work to see whether this has a value in answering multimodal questions and this is particularly important in themology because inmology is a highly image based specialty where we rely on a lot of images to help with a decision making including cornettomography OCT for macro OCT. So having a better understanding of the capability of the foundation model in answering multimodal questions will have a significant value in athmology. >> We often think opthalmologists are very visual and so it makes a lot of sense if you're going to test how good they're doing, you're not just going to give them paragraphs describing a cornea, but actually show them a cornea. But speaking of value, why did you all want to do this? Was this a parlor trick to say ah we know how the opthalmology resident can do let's see how the machine can do or what's the end game here what's the goal of showing that a computer really can not only answer a question that's textual but look at images and answer what they think is going on as well. Why do we want to even come up with foundation models that can do this? >> Yes. So the ultimate goal of all this work is to demonstrate the physibility or support whether this generative AI foundation model can be used in large scale clinical settings. As we all know there's an increasing burden on theology service in medicine in general. There's also a lot of places where the resources are limited. So inology there are many condition which are very timesensitive. So for instance let's say con infection if diagnosis is delayed and the treatment is delayed they may end up with a very poor outcome. So if this generative AI model demonstrates very accurate result with safety supervised by human it can then be democratized to a underresourced country and expediting the diagnosis and management and ultimately achieving a better patient outcome. So that would be the ultimate goal I think for all this work. >> So how do you do these comparisons? Do you just put a computer in a room and bring a book in and show it a picture and wait for the computer to answer? How do you actually test it to see it answer these questions? Do you have to scan the image to something? How does it all work? >> We have very talented and junior doctors to help us with all this work is done in the collaborative manner. So we have a book 360 questions which was actually I was the editor on this F FRC part two exam book with the help of many consultants. We come up with questions that we deems at the level of the exit exams. Then we have the junior doctor to input this question one by one over 360 questions into the foundation model on each foundation model. Then we present them with the answer options ABCD and then ask them to provide an answer and also potentially asking them to provide the reasoning behind. We also have doctors which are a separate group for comparison. They also answer the questions separately and all these doctors have not been exposed to these questions before to ensure robustness of this experiment. So then we then compare the results of the doctors and the foundation models >> and has the computer seen these questions before? Were they trained on these questions or they never saw these things either? >> So to reduce the contamination of the foundation model we have used a book uh questions. So we believe it has not been exposed to the foundation model. Obviously in the future all those books which are potentially electronic book ebooks they may be used by the foundation model in the future and then there may be risking the contamination and bias but as far as we believe for this work the book is used as offline questions. So we don't think there's any contamination. How long did it take those doctors to input the question with images to the foundation model? >> I must assume we have a very hardworking junior. He managed to do this within a month. So yeah, credit to the first author. >> Got it. So let's talk about what they found. Let's go to the textual questions because that's been looked at in some other fields of medicine and as you said your group even looked at that a year ago. How did this foundational model do on those questions? Was it as good as what was going on last year? Has it degraded? It's not studying a lot anymore or was it better? >> Not surprising. The newer generation of the foundation model demonstrated better results compared to the previous model. Taking GPT the CH GPT as an example the GPT 4 and GPT 3.5 it will perform significantly weaker than the GPT 40 by 10 to 20% of the accuracy which is significant. Obviously this field is advancing so quickly that GPT5 is now also been released. So we may anticipate that the performance might even improve even further. We also look at other foundation models, notably the cloud 3.5 sonnet have the best accuracy with almost 80%. >> Like having different students take the same test. >> Yes, exactly. >> So, how about those images? How did this do with these multimodal images? Unfortunately for the multimodal questions, the GPT40 which was the best model, it only achieved around 60% accuracy which is not bad I feel cuz this is like a proof of concept study and it's on also what we call zeroshot learning where we did not give any clues to the foundation model about what image is this and the context. So it actually performed not bad around 60%. But obviously when compared to the experienced doctors or ofthromologist is significantly weaker but when it compared to junior doctors that is not in athmology training. So when we refer junior doctors we mean any doctors that's not attending. So it could be residents or interns and that's not inmology. They actually perform significantly better. So this may be still very useful especially in the primary care setting where general physicians they're not trained of themology they may want to have uh some help with the initial triaging. So it's quite encouraging the results. >> And were there certain areas where the imaging didn't do as well as others? Is this computer no good at retina but it really knows cornea images very well? >> That's a good question. We really wanted to understand this in a more granular manner but we only included 40 questions. So that is one of the limitation that we highlighted in this paper. So if imagine we only have 40 questions and covering 15 modalities. So each modality only have two or three questions. So it's very difficult to determine whether it performs significant better or weaker in the particular image. But this will form or lay the foundation for our future work in doing this kind of study. So what are the next steps? Do you want to get this better? You want it to be able to really replace you and I? What's the next step? >> I don't think at least for the next 5 10 years hopefully that AI would replace a doctor but hopefully will serve as a powerful assisting tool for the doctors. For the next step a few things we are planning to do. One is to investigate the performance of the newer generation of the foundation model. And secondly is to look at more multimodal questions. So expanding the questions sample size from 40 to 100 so that we can perform subgroup analysis to see whether this foundation model perform better or weaker in certain field. Potentially as we all know AI depends on the training data. If we train them with more images or more context potentially they will perform better. And do you envision a time when you won't even have to oversee this or do you think at least in the next 10 years we'll need a physician to oversee what answer comes out and it may facilitate and help but not necessarily be the final answer without some human oversight. >> This field is moving so fast. I think no one would know what will happen in the future. But from a medical field, patient safeties is always the top priority. So I think regardless how good or accurate an AI model is, it will always needs to be supervised by a doctor because ultimately the responsibility lies in the doctors rather than the AI model. So from a medical legal reason point of view, I think doctors will always have the ultimate responsibility. >> Well, this has been fascinating. I know we're at the earliest stages of this, but I'm so glad that your group is pursuing this and sharing it with us as perhaps a technology that will assist us like many of our other technologies assist in opthalmology and seems like we're at the cutting edge of what may go on here. So really, we appreciate the work that your whole team did and thank you on behalf of your team for sharing it with us today. >> Thank you very much for having me and my team today. I'm Neil Brler and I've been speaking with Dr. Darren Ting on a study that he and his colleagues have done on the performance of foundation models compared with doctors looking at both textual and multimodal opthalmological questions. You can find a link to this article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at the Jamba Network. To follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online at jambnetworkaudio.com or search for Jamba Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you everyone for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.