[Automatically generated] Hello, and welcome to JAMA Evidence, our podcast series based on core issues in evidence-based medicine. Today, we're discussing futility in clinical trials. I'm your host, Dr. Roger Lewis, Senior Statistical Editor for JAMA, and editor of the JAMA Guide to Statistics and Methods series. I'm here with Dr. Barbara Wendelberger, who is the lead author on an article in our series on futility in clinical trials, on which I also participated. Dr. Wendelberger, can you go ahead and introduce yourself? Yeah. Thank you for having me. My name is Barbara Wendelberger, and I'm a Senior Statistical Scientist at Berry Consultants, where I design and conduct adaptive clinical trials. Great. Thank you so much for joining us. In your article on futility in clinical trials, you begin by explaining what futility means in this context. Can you go ahead and start there? Sure. Futility is a term in clinical trials that refers to when it is unlikely that a trial will meet its original goals. This often is related to demonstrating treatment efficacy. If futility is based on the low chance of meeting the original goals, what are the usual goals of trials in these settings? Clinical trials usually have the goal to both determine if there is a benefit of a specific treatment and also to quantify that benefit. Obviously, when we embark on a clinical trial, we hope to be able to meet those goals, but a lot of things that can happen along the way that make that unlikely. Tell us what some of those things might be. Yeah, there are a variety of reasons that may occur during the running of a clinical trial that may make it unlikely that that trial could meet its original goal. And those include participants being unable to be recruited, the exhaustion of funding or external events like the approval of a competing therapy. The other thing that can happen is that accumulating evidence within the trial makes it unlikely that you'll be able to see a treatment benefit for the experimental therapy being tested. In your article, you call those two different categories of events that may lead to futility as being either statistical or feasibility. And first, you mentioned for feasibility running out of patients or money or time. But let's talk about the statistical characteristics. How is it during a trial you assess the futility based on statistical considerations? So statistical futility is defined as the low probability that a trial can achieve its primary objective should that trial be completed as planned. And statistical futility is pre-specified and it could be based on a number of different metrics, including p-values, conditional power, predictive probabilities, and phase and posterior probabilities. So let's take each of those one at a time. So for p-values, how could you use a p-value to define futility? So you could define different analyses within a trial. So you could have interim analyses as well as a final analysis, and define a specific threshold at each of those analyses, in the case of p-value thresholds. You could compute a p-value during the trial, and compare that p-value to the pre-specified threshold at the interim analyses or final analysis. Usually when using a p-value, our goal is to have it be below the threshold we defined. Is that the same or different for futility? That would be a case that is different. So we would be comparing the p-value at the interim analysis to a pre-specified maximum threshold. And if the p-value that we're observing is greater than that pre-specified maximum, then we could declare futility. So you also mentioned this concept called conditional power, which I think is a particularly good way to consider futility. So tell our listeners, what is conditional power and how is that used? So conditional power is a method where you look at the treatment effect that you're observing at an earlier point in a trial. And assuming that that treatment effect continues, what is the probability that you will get a significant result, that you will be able to say that the experimental treatment is better than the control? So in your article, you also make a clear distinction between binding and non-binding futility rules. So what is the difference? Yes, there are binding futilities and non-binding futility rules. Binding futility rules mean that a trial must be stopped if the pre-specified criteria for that binding rule is met. A non-binding futility rule gives the Data and Safety Monitoring Board some amount of flexibility in recommending study continuation. So how does a futility rule affect the operating characteristics of a trial, specifically the risk of a false positive or type 1 error, and the ability to detect a true treatment effect or power? Yeah, so futility rules result in modest changes to our operating characteristics. And the way that it can do this is that our type 1 errors, our false positives are slightly reduced with a futility rule. The reason for that is that the negative conclusion that you reach at the time of futility cannot be reversed if you were to have continued the trial on because you stopped early for futility. And then a type 2 error or a false negative is slightly increased. And the reason for that is that early data that you have may be anomalously discouraging and you may stop for futility and not be collecting data that may reverse that anomalously discouraging result. So if one has a non-binding futility rule, so you don't actually know when you start the trial whether the rule will be followed, then how do you despise the operating characteristics or these error rates for the trial? The conservative approach to take for operating characteristics for a non-binding futility rule would be to calculate the type 1 error rate, assuming that the futility rule will not be followed. And the reason for that is that that will be a slightly higher type 1 error rate, but then to calculate power assuming that the futility rule will be followed. And the reason for that is that power will be slightly lower in the case where the futility rule is followed than in the case where it is not. So essentially, you pick the worst case estimates of these error rates to make sure you're being conservative. Is that fair? Exactly. You mentioned earlier the importance of futility rules being pre-specified. So you can't really choose your futility rule as the trial is progressing. Why is that important? It's very important to pre-specify the rules for a number of reasons. One of those is to think about the rules in advance during the design of a trial and to really think about the circumstances where you would want to stop a trial early. You may want to stop a trial early if you're looking at a novel treatment method. So, you know, small amounts of evidence of futility in that context may be a reason that you would want to stop early. Conversely, if you're running a trial with a treatment that has been well studied, you would want to see substantial evidence of futility before stopping that trial for futility. And so during the trial design process, you would really want to think about the context of what you're doing and when you would want to stop, for what reason, and look at the operating characteristics during the design phase for that. Why is futility important? Why don't we just run clinical trials to their maximum planned sample size to get the most definitive result possible? Futility helps protect the interests of study participants and society, and it does this in a number of ways. It reduces the likelihood that ineffective or harmful interventions are investigated for longer than necessary, or with more participants than are necessary. It reduces the amount of resources that we use in clinical trials, as well as feeding the discovery of finding effective treatments. And it also enables participants to pursue other potential therapies in other clinical trials. In the case of them initially being in a trial where the therapy is not helping them, we're stopping that and enabling them to go on to hopefully better options. So if those are the reasons futility is important, what are the problems with it? What problems does it cause potentially in the interpretation of the trial that has stopped early? We need to interpret clinical trials with care. So futility and a trial that stops for futility does not indicate that harm has occurred. So that is one very important piece of the interpretation of a trial that stops for futility. Additionally, trials that stop for futility collect fewer data than if the trial had gone to the maximum sample size. Fewer data means less precise estimates. So we would have a less precise estimate of treatment benefit and adverse event rates and a reduced ability to identify subgroups and later exploratory analyses. Sometimes the point is made that the futility rule applies to the trial, not to the treatment. What does that mean? Trials can be futile. And this is very different than a treatment being futile. So you could have a treatment that actually works, but in a specific trial, there was not evidence to suggest that. So a clinical trial can be stopped for futility, and it actually does not mean that the treatment doesn't work. It's a piece of evidence, the fact that that trial was futile. But there are a number of things that go into a clinical trial that may have resulted in that futility occurring. Is the overall interpretation of a futile trial as indeterminate or negative, or how do you think about it? If a trial has stopped for statistical futility, that result should be interpreted as a negative trial. If a trial has stopped due to feasibility issues, that would be interpreted as an inconclusive result. Barbara, in your article, you discussed specifically how futility monitoring was used and how it played out in the RACECAT trial. Tell us a little bit about that trial and what happened. The RACECAT trial was a cluster randomized trial investigating optimal transport strategy for a population of patients with suspected ischemic stroke in a non-urban setting. It looked at an experimental strategy of direct transport to a thrombectomy capable center versus a control strategy of transport to the closest local stroke center. The primary endpoint was disability at 90 days, measured by the Modified Rankin Scale, MRS And this trial had pre-specified statistical rules defining early stopping for efficacy and also had a binding statistical futility rule. The design contained two interim analyses and a final analysis. The RaceCAT trial stopped for futility at the second interim analysis based on the observed odds ratio for the primary endpoint of 1.03. And the accumulating evidence in that trial did not show a significantly different outcome for patients in the experimental strategy versus those in the control strategy. How does the use of the futility rule affect the interpretation? What would the clinician have as their take home message from this trial? So the RaceCAT trial was appropriately interpreted as a negative trial result. So Barbara, what do you think are the main takeaway messages regarding futility for our listeners? The main takeaways regarding futility in clinical trial design are first that we should always be monitoring trials for futility. Futility is an important tool that allows us to not expend unnecessary time and resources into trials that are unlikely to meet their original goal. Another key takeaway is that futility boundaries and the rules that we want to put into place depend on context. So it's important to think about our futility rules during the design phase of a trial and make sure that the rules that we set appropriately capture the situation that we are in and appropriately respond based on the type of therapy, the disease area and other features such as those. Finally, the interpretation of a futile trial is important. So trials may be stopped for futility. It does not mean that the treatment is futile. And it's important to interpret a trial that meets statistical futility as a negative result, but to interpret a trial that stops due to infeasibility as an inconclusive result. I'm Roger Lewis and I've been speaking with Barbara Wendelberger about futility in clinical trials. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Daniel Lucisi at the JAMA Network. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training and similar technologies.