Does living next to a golf course increase your risk of Parkinson disease? If you golf or live near a course, chances are you've seen stories like these recently discussing the connection between Parkinson disease and proximity to golf courses. Jamma Network Open published the recent article discussed in these stories. So, let's take a look at the science behind the headlines. This was an observational study meant to examine the link between golf courses, pesticide use, and risk of Parkinson disease. Observational studies can't prove that living next to a golf course causes Parkinson disease. So what did the researchers do? They mapped the boundaries of golf courses in southern Minnesota and western Wisconsin and used data on Parkinson disease cases from 1991 to 2015. They reported that living within one mile of a golf course was associated with 126% increased odds, a measure of risk of developing Parkinson disease compared with living more than 6 miles away from a golf course. risk remained higher for those living within three miles of a course and gradually decreased from there. The risk of Parkinson disease was also higher for people in water service areas with the golf course, particularly those living in vulnerable groundwater regions. Factoring in data from previous studies linking pesticides to the development of Parkinson disease and studies showing the potential for these pesticides to leech into groundwater around golf courses, the authors conclude pesticides may be the reason for this association. Dr. Dr. Britney Kristenowski, one of the pap's authors, says more research needs to be done. >> We weren't able to knock on doors for thousands of people and and get blood samples and water samples, but we were able to find this relationship that we tested in multiple different ways. We said, "Okay, so there's the distance relationship between golf courses and Parkinson's. Well, do we still see that relationship when we um add water service data? Uh can we look at well depths and all these different things?" So we we used this kind of datadriven rigorous approach to explore this and we found compelling results but we still need to be aware that there were limitations to data studies and that uh we hope that future studies would do something on the ground get water samples, blood samples, things like that. It's also important to note that this study was limited to a region with hot and humid summers where golf courses might be applying pesticides with more frequency uh compared to other geographic regions. >> Read the full study on jam network.com.