From the Jamba Network, this is the Jamba Medical News podcast discussing timely topics in clinical medicine, biomedical sciences, public health, [music] and health policy featured in the medical news section of JAMA. On today's show, we're discussing new [music] insights on stress and cardiovascular disease, namely a study that suggests stress may mediate the observed association of depression and anxiety with major cardiovascular events. I'm Kate Schweitzer, associate managing editor of JAMAMA Medical News. Lead senior staff writer, Rita Rubin, is here to tell us about the news. Rita, thanks for joining. >> Hi, my pleasure, Kate. >> Rita, tell us about this research. >> Well, you know, stress seems to be a fact of life these days. [clears throat] We've all experienced the effect stress can have on our sleep, on our appetite, and on our mood. And as for mood, it's long been observed that people with depression or anxiety are more likely to experience heart attacks and strokes. Okay, so what's the connection here? Well, I wrote about a recent study in circulation cardiovascular imaging that suggests stress might mediate the events. Researchers analyzed data from nearly 86,000 participants in the Mass General Bighgam Bioank. About 15,000 of them had been diagnosed with both depression and anxiety while about 16,000 had been diagnosed with one or the other on the remaining 55,000 had not been diagnosed with either. Now about 3,000 of the bioank participants experienced a major cardiovascular event during a median follow-up period of 3 years. People who had been diagnosed with depression or anxiety, and especially those diagnosed with depression and anxiety, were more likely to have had a major cardiovascular event than people without a diagnosis of either condition even after adjusting for possible confounders such as traditional cardiovascular disease risk factors and lifestyle factors. So, where does stress enter into the equation? In a subset of participants, researchers assessed stress related neural activity and related autonomic and immune mechanisms. Turns out that people with a depression diagnosis showed increased stress related neural activity as well as reduced heart rate variability and higher blood levels of C-reactive protein. Both indicators of increased autonomic activity and systemic inflammation. A mediation analysis showed that all three indirectly affected the relationship between depression, anxiety, or a combination of the two and major cardiovascular events. Now, because the study was observational, it couldn't prove a causal relationship. But an expert I interviewed who was not involved in the research told me that it's likely the relationship is real, but that the effect of stress may be half as impactful as cardiovascular disease risk factors such as smoking or hypertension. >> Interesting. And does the study suggest that cardiologists should be talking to patients about mental health and stress? >> Well, the authors would say yes, but it's not always easy to do. I mean, some patients might be reluctant to reveal they've been diagnosed with a mental health condition, and clinicians might not have time to squeeze a discussion about mental health and stress into a patient visit. >> True. Is there a takeaway message here for patients then? >> Well, taking steps to reduce stress, such as making sure you get enough sleep and maybe practicing meditation or yoga, will likely make you feel better. and it might even help protect your cardiovascular system. >> Thanks, Rita. If you'd like to learn more, we'll include a link to Rita's story in the show description, and you can find all of our stories at jammedicalnews.com. [music] Thanks again to Rita Rubin for joining me. I'm Kate Schwitzer for Jammed Medical News. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at the Jam Network. To follow this [music] and other Jam Network podcasts, please visit us online at jametworkaudio.com. Thanks for listening [music] and join us again next week. >> This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.