[Annabel Chen] Think about an operating room from the perspective of its carbon footprint. The blue drapes, towels and surgical gowns might all be single use textiles. These materials, along with things like disposable plastics and tools, are discarded after surgery, adding up to dozens of pounds of trash per case. An energy intensive HVAC system is keeping the operating room tightly temperature controlled. There are bright lights shining even if there's no surgery going on. The patient is breathing in greenhouse gases in the form of inhaled anesthetics. When they’re exhaled, the gases eventually make their way into the atmosphere. This operating room is a hallmark of modern health care. But it's also a significant contributor to the growing climate impact of the healthcare system. If the entire global healthcare sector was a country, it would be the fifth largest emitter of greenhouse gases. [Sofya Asfaw] The issue with the operating room in particular is that it is one of the most, or the most, energy intensive part of the hospital. The operating rooms also account for about 20 to 40 percent, some say up to 60 percent, of all hospital waste. We have bins and bins and bags and bags of trash and plastics that we generate. [Annabel Chen] That's Dr. Sofya Asfaw. She's a trauma and critical care surgeon at the Cleveland Clinic. And she's part of a growing movement of clinicians advocating for better environmental stewardship in the operating room. We spoke to several of these physicians to learn more about what's being done to green our ORs. [Annabel Chen] Can you point out some of the changes that you’ve made in this operating room? [Sofya Asfaw] Let me just look around and see. Setting back our operating rooms and our HVAC systems, changing the type of anesthetic gas that we use, reducing our water at the scrub sink, reprocessing and recycling devices that we use. We turn off the computers when not in use. We've installed occupancy sensors in the operating room when not in use so we reduce energy. Our supply chain, even, in the operating room, we've made green. [Annabel Chen] The Cleveland Clinic has innovated the way they manage plastic waste from their operating rooms. [Sofya Asfaw] In the operating room, in surgery, there's a lot of waste, because there's a lot of plastics, from the plastics you see, to the blue wrap that's used when we unwrap surgical packs. Say if we have a piece of laparoscopic equipment or suction tubing, it comes in a plastic container. And even those containers can be recycled. [Annabel Chen] Plastics like this can be recycled, but they often aren't. Traditionally, operating rooms don't separate out recyclable waste. Instead, everything goes into the same bin to be thrown away. At the Cleveland Clinic, pre-incision plastics are put into special recycling containers. So this is our purple bin. And before a surgery starts pre-incision, we put things like plastic in the purple bin. So, for example, plastic that you might use to pour saline into a bin or water. That plastic water bottle doesn't need to be thrown away, but it can be recycled now. [Annabel Chen] Since its inception in 2011, the purple bag program has diverted over 1 million tons of plastic from landfills. Dr Ava Yap at UCSF is working on another strategy to decrease plastic waste. She and her colleagues noticed disposable textiles made up a large proportion of operating room waste. [Ava Yap] I would say, like, up to a third of what we were throwing away was just, you know, disposable gowns, towels, drapes, and we also knew that in the past, these used to be reusable. [Annabel Chen] The transition to single use surgical gowns started in the 1970s and 80s due to concerns over cost and infection risk. These concerns still linger among some surgical staff, making them hesitant to bring back reusable gowns. However the technology has evolved significantly, making many of these concerns obsolete. [Ava Yap] It's quite different now. So, for example, the gowns that we used in our study is polyester reusable gowns that have passed FDA approval, and has equivalent, at least equivalent, barrier protection to the single use gowns that we commonly use. [Annabel Chen] The UCSF team introduced new reusable surgical gowns to 618 operations at 2 pilot sites. The waste reduction from these pilots, if projected across the entire institution, could eliminate over 30 000 pounds of waste every single year. [Ava Yap] And that's just with 1 product, but secondarily we also found that the gowns were essentially cost-neutral in terms of utilizing the services of sterilization versus the purchase prices of the disposable gowns. [Annabel Chen] While both Dr Asfaw and Dr Yap highlighted incredible department-wide initiatives, there's also a lot that individual surgeons can do to make a difference. [Ava Yap] One thing that surgeons can change, easily, is their preference cards. [Annabel Chen] These cards tell the sterile staff what equipment should be set up before a case. [Ava Yap] What's important about this preference card is that, basically, unless specified, all these things will be opened on the OR table. And so immediately they become single use for that case. [Annabel Chen] A notable example of this is disposable towels. [Ava Yap] Disposable towels specifically are really bad for the environment. They're thrown away after 1 use or even half a use or no use at all because they just land on the table. Sometimes when we're in the OR, we use it to adjust our headlights. And then 5 seconds afterwards, they're in the bin. [Annabel Chen] Towels, just like surgical gowns and many other common OR materials, have reusable alternatives. However, when reusable alternatives are not available, it's worth asking whether the item is being used in a way that justifies it being immediately thrown away. [Sofya Asfaw] And I think surgeons, or anyone in the operating room for that matter, can stand up and say, “Hey, do we really need to use that?” “Hey, do we really need to open that?” Or, “Hey, can we recycle that?” So I think it's not even just necessarily the surgeon, but it's the collective responsibility of everyone that takes care of patients in the operating room to be champions for change. [Annabel Chen] Another factor in the operating room’s environmental impact is anesthesia. Some commonly used inhaled anesthetics are potent greenhouse gases, and the anesthesiologist’s choice of gas can significantly change the environmental impact of a case. To learn more about this, we talked to two anesthesiologists leading important green initiatives: Dr Praveen Kalra at Stanford Health Care and Dr George Mashour at Michigan Medicine. [George Mashour] So let's say sevoflurane and desflurane. They're the more modern halogenated ethers. Clinically they're relatively interchangeable. But from the environmental perspective, they have really divergent effects. And you're talking about a 20-fold increase in global warming potential. [Annabel Chen] In addition to having a much higher global warming potential, desflurane is worse for the environment for several other reasons. One, it's the least metabolized of all the fluorinated anesthetic gases. Only 0.02% is actually metabolized by the body, while 99.98% escapes into the atmosphere. Two, desflurane is a weakly potent anesthetic gas, which means you need to use more of it to generate the same therapeutic effect. Therefore you have more molecules that then escape into the atmosphere. And three, once it's in the atmosphere, desflurane sticks around for a very long time. Desflurane has an atmospheric lifetime of about 14 years versus sevoflurane's 2 years. [Praveen Kalra] So in a nutshell, this gas being the longest lifetime among fluorinated anesthetic gases, least metabolized, highest global warming potential, and weakly potent in terms of the number of molecules it's releasing into the environment, makes it a poor choice from a global warming point of view. [Annabel Chen] To put this in perspective, one study estimated using sevoflurane for one hour is like driving a car for four miles. However using desflurane for one hour is like driving almost 200 miles. In light of these environmental impacts, some major institutions, including all of the hospitals where our experts work, have either significantly reduced or eliminated the use of desflurane from their ORs. [Praveen Kalra] By removing desflurane from our operating rooms, it reduced our carbon footprint by almost 83 percent from fluorinated anesthetic gases. And by the way, uh, desflurane was also twice as expensive as, uh, other anesthetic gases, so we generated some financial savings for the institution. [Annabel Chen] Desflurane, however, isn't the only inhaled anesthetic that is also a potent greenhouse gas. [Praveen Kalra] The biggest culprit from an ozone depletion point of view is nitrous oxide. [Annabel Chen] In terms of global warming potential, nitrous oxide is 265 times more potent than carbon dioxide. And it sticks around in the atmosphere for an estimated 114 years. [George Mashour] Its atmospheric lifetime is over a century. And so that was really striking to consider that, wow, our collective decisions right now to use nitrous oxide can have an environmental impact for more than a century. But what I think is also interesting, if you have central stores of nitrous that get piped into the system, a lot of the nitrous oxide that's getting into the atmosphere is coming from leaks. [Praveen Kalra] In a study done at Stanford, and has already been replicated at many other institutions as well, comparing purchasing data with the actual utilization data, less than 10 percent of nitrous oxide is used on patient care. So almost 90 percent is leaking. [Annabel Chen] Dr Kalra explained that at Stanford, nitrous oxide pipelines have already been decommissioned in favor of portable cylinders at 2 hospital facilities, with plans to do the same at additional facilities. And in fact all 4 of the hospital systems where our experts are based are either planning for decommissioning pipelines, or are already implementing this strategy, among other ways to reduce nitrous oxide emissions. This underscores how reducing OR emissions requires the buy-in of both individual clinicians and their institutions. It’s also important to note—none of these changes alter the therapeutic goals of anesthesia. Patient care is always at the forefront of these initiatives. [George Mashour] I want to be very clear. What I'm not talking about is reducing therapeutic anesthesia. That is absolutely not the case. It's really about trying to minimize waste, not minimizing the therapeutic value. [Annabel Chen] Dr Mashour described how, for him, learning about the environmental impacts of anesthesia was an eye-opening and liberating process. [George Mashour] Liberating in the sense that, for anesthesiology, doing better from the environmental perspective doesn't mean a major tectonic shift. We just have to make smarter choices. [Annabel Chen] We make environmentally conscious decisions all the time in our lives. We think about whether we should bike to work. We take reusable bags to the grocery store. But medical training doesn't typically teach us how to bring these considerations into the hospital and integrate environmental consciousness into our clinical practices. [Ava Yap] I think there is this dichotomy when we enter the hospital and we turn into a clinician and we're like, “Oh, we're doing everything for the patient.” And then when we come back out, you know, I have to think about where I'm throwing my cup noodle cup. Like, in the trash. You know, like, “Oh, do I take off the cup and put it in the compost?” Versus, it's like, like, why am I being so picky about that, but not picky about this, like, 70 pound of garbage that I'm creating from this one case? [Annabel Chen] So, how to we bridge that gap? Many of the physicians we talked to suggested starting with the data. [Praveen Kalra] In any profession, changing the culture is always the hardest thing. And I think the only way to change the culture is to provide education, to increase awareness. [Sofya Asfaw] Because sometimes it is hard to change people that are set in their ways, but if you show them data, then I think it's easier to make that case. Because once somebody knows what they're doing has downstream negative effects, they will change. [Annabel Chen] The message we heard clearly in our reporting is that even though changing longstanding medical practices can be really, really hard, everyone can and should contribute. [Ava Yap] I mean, changing our culture, changing systems, is very challenging. There was a time where I just felt kind of helpless. You know, just like a small cog in a big system, in a big machine, and I mean, it's a big uphill push. But doesn't mean that it can't be done. It's sort of our responsibility as clinicians, you know. If we care about health, then we should care about the environment.