Soft drinks may worsen depression by altering the gut microbiome. This study recently published in JAMAMA psychiatry found that gut bacteria may be behind the association between soft drink consumption and depression. This study included 405 participants with major depressive disorder and 527 healthy individuals. Participants reported their depression symptoms and level of soft drink consumption using validated questionnaires. Importantly though, the data reported did not differentiate between sugar sweetened and artificially sweetened sodas. These results found that soft drink intake was associated with higher rates of depression and greater symptom severity only in female participants and not male participants. These associations remained statistically significant after controlling for total calorie intake, BMI, and anti-depressant use. The researchers then tested whether soft drink consumption was associated with changes in gut microbiota. In particular, researchers were interested in two bacteria, Agrathella and Hungatella, because prior research has found them to be associated with major depressive disorder. While no association was seen for hungatella, the researchers did find that soft drink consumption was associated with higher abundance of egretthella and reduced microbiome diversity. These associations were again only seen in female participants. While sex hormones might play a role, it really isn't clear why these associations are only seen in females. The researchers then conducted something called mediation analysis to see to what extent agrea might explain consumption and major depressive disorder. These data showed that Agrathella abundance accounted for 3.82% of the total association between soft drink consumption and a diagnosis of major depressive disorder and 5% of the association with symptom severity. It's important to note that this is an observational study, not a randomized clinical trial and that causality cannot be inferred from a mediation model. Even though the effect sizes found in the study are small, these results may prove to be important because soft drink consumption is a modifiable risk factor.