From the Jamba Network, this is the Jamba Medical News podcast discussing timely topics in clinical medicine, biomedical sciences, public health, and health policy featured in the medical news section of JAMA. I'm Jennifer Abasi for JAMA Medical News. When physician scientist Dr. Michael Welsh was starting out as a medical student in the 1970s. Cystic fibrosis was a terminal disease. Dr. Welsh was inspired by pediatric patients who wouldn't make it past their teens and by a newfound love for scientific discovery. And he made CF the focus of his bench work. Over the following decades, his research would contribute to the understanding of the genetic condition with its confusing mix of lung, pancreatic, liver, and intestinal disease and how to treat it. In 1989, scientists Lap Chiui, Francis Collins, and their colleagues identified the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene or CFTR. Dr. Welsh and others then deduced its function, classified its disease-causing variance, and demonstrated that their activity could be restored. Based on this and other foundational work, the first disease modifying medication for CF was introduced in 2012. 7 years later in 2019 came the highly effective triple combination drug, Tracha, which the cystic fibrosis foundation called the single greatest therapeutic advancement in the history of CF. Thanks to work by Dr. Welsh and many others. It's now generally understood that the CFTR protein is a channel through which chloride or bicarbonate flow through the membrane of epithelial cells in the lungs and other organs including the liver, gastrointestinal tract and pancreas. When the protein function is disrupted in the lungs, mucus becomes thick and sticky, obstructing the airways and leaving patients prone to chronic bacterial infections and inflammation. This ultimately leads to a decline in lung function and the lung condition bronchiacttois in which the airways are permanently widened and inflamed. But today people with CF who are treated with the triple combination therapy can expect a far longer and healthier lifespan. In recognition of these achievements, Dr. Welsh who is a professor of internal medicine and a pulmonologist at the University of Iowa has been chosen as co-reient of this year's prestigious Laser Debakei clinical medical research award. I recently spoke with him about his life's work and the future of CF treatment. All right. Today we're talking about cystic fibrosis and the journey that you've been on with this disease and how the disease itself has evolved in our understanding and the patient experience. Can you start by telling us about your earliest experience with cystic fibrosis? How did this journey begin for you? >> This journey really began for me when I was a junior medical student on my pediatrics rotation. I'm walking down the hall and before I get to the room where I'm supposed to see a patient, I can hear coughing, harsh coughing. I go in the room, there's a seven or eightyear-old little girl. It's obvious she's breathing hard. I can see her using her accessory muscles of ventilation. I hear her coughing. Then I smell for the first time the odor of sudamonos origigenosa, common organism that affects the lungs of people with CF. I hear from her and her parents about all the things she can't do, of how much of her day is spent with a variety of different therapies. The sobering part was when we left the room because then my attending told me that she wouldn't make it to her teens. If she did make it to her teens, she almost certainly would never make it out of her teens. There's certain patients that are burned into your memory. That little girl is burned into my memory. I'd love to hear how things have evolved for patients with cystic fibrosis since then. So, can you tell us a little bit about what it was like then for them and where we are today? >> As I advanced through my training, internal medicine, pulmonary training and then became a faculty member in the pulmonary division back here at the University of Iowa. I remember we'd work really hard for these patients. We'd be treating them with antibiotics. They'd be doing postural drainage. We had put them in vests to try and shake loose the thick, sticky mucus that they had. Sometimes they'd be on steroids. And we were not fundamentally changing the course of the disease. The lung disease continued to get worse. As a physician, one always wants to do something for your patients. And as my research evolved, I realized that I might have the opportunity to at least better understand the disease. Fast forward us to today. How is life different now? Oh, >> it's amazing. As I worked on this disease, my hope was that maybe we could stop the progression. If we started an effective therapy, maybe the people would stop getting worse, but it's beyond what I could have hoped for. People actually now get better. When the new medications became available, our rate of lung transplants here at the University of Iowa plummeted by 75%. And you know, I could give you a lot of statistics, but even more important than that, at least as a physician, is the individual stories. I remember my colleague, a pediatric pulmonologist, comes to me and tells me about a patient he had. This patient had been hospitalized twice already, which means they have significant significant disease. This person was running competitively. It's beyond belief as somebody who's taken care of people with CF to see them improve. It's unfathomable. And now people are getting on with their lives. Our patients are getting married, having children, planning for the future. Now it's estimated that the average age of survival of a person with CF who starts the medication at a fairly young age will live a normal duration of life. And it's not just the duration, it's the quality of life they live. It's completely changed. >> So when you made the transition from physician to physician scientist, why did you choose cystic fibrosis? So I trained as internal medicine and pulmonary disease and at that time I knew about cystic fibrosis. The little girl I told you about had been on my mind but I wasn't at that time thinking about what I might do in terms of trying to develop a new treatment there. But I was studying how chloride moves across epithelia and I was studying intestine at that time because by studying intestine I could learn some of the tools and techniques that people used. But at the end of the day I would go and get lungs and trachea from other labs that were doing animal experiments and I'd study them. And I remember one night I did some electrphysiologic experiments and I saw this surprising result and that night I went home at 3 or 4:00 in the morning, couldn't sleep, and I became completely obsessed with trying to figure out what was going on. I would think about my experiments when I was eating. I'd think about my experiments when I was at the grocery store. I'd think about my experiments when I was at the movie. I became completely obsessed. And then when I discovered the answer, I was overcome with a sense of peace. It was like all the endorphins in my brain let loose. And it was then that I decided that a physician scientist would be my life's work. As I went back to the University of Iowa and I started taking care of people with CF, I thought maybe I can apply some of my work to at least beginning to understand the disease. >> So what was known about the disease when you were a young physician and how has our understanding of it improved in that time? >> Yeah, it's really an interesting arc. This arc started with Dorothy Anderson. She's a pathologist at Columbia University in New York. She's doing autopsies on kids who were thought to have died from a primary intestinal disease and she found that that was not the case. Started to see these changes in the pancreas, changes in the lungs. She gave the disease its name, cystic fibrosis of the pancreas. Then Paul D. Sanagnes also at Columbia University was taking care of patients during the heat wave in New York City and he found that the patients that were coming in with heat stroke or dehydration were often his cystic fibrosis patients. And so he took some kids with CF and put two kids with CF and two kids that didn't have CF in blankets, heated them up, and saw that the sweat in people with CF had more chloride than did the sweat in the non CF. That was really an important discovery because what that ultimately led to was the sweat test. So for years and years and years, you think of somebody might have cystic fibrosis. You'd measure the amount of chloride, salt chloride in their sweat. People with CF had more chloride. With that for a significant period of time, there's a tremendous effort to try and understand what's going on because how do you put together the sweat, the lung disease, the pancreatic disease, the intestinal disease, the liver disease? It was a confusing mix and there was a enormous effort to try and figure out what was going on. A man named Paul Quinton at UC Riverside made an important discovery. He actually has CF and often was studying his own sweat glands. The way this gland works is you make sweat down in the coil and then as the sweat moves up, the sweat down in the coil is made as a sodium chloride rich solution sort of like saline. as it moves up the duct to the surface where we just want water to evaporate to cool, the salt gets absorbed out. But he discovered that in cystic fibrosis, the problem was the chloride did not get reabsorbed. You can't just absorb the chloride, the negatively charged ion, and not the positively charged ion, the sodium. So, both were blocked. That was really an important discovery. At that point I collaborated with a colleague Jonathan Whitam at UCSF and we discovered that the problem lay in the apical membrane of airway epithelia. Airway disease was the primary cause of morbidity and mortality and we discovered that the chloride could not move across the apical membrane. >> Now what is the apical membrane? So in the epithelia, epithelia are sheet of cells, sheets of cells that line the airways, the bronchi, the bronchioles, trachea, etc. And the apical membrane is the side of the cell that faces the air. Chloride could get into the cell, but it couldn't get out across the apical membrane. And that pinpointed the defect. That was important also because it began to suggest a unifying hypothesis. chloride movement across the apical membrane of airway epithelia and then with time begin to understand that this was a common problem in the pancreas in the intestine lung sweat gland and so on. So that's where we were in 1989 and in 1989 Lapi Choy at Toronto Francis Collins in Michigan Jack Reen and at Sick Kids in Toronto discovered the gene that's mutated in people with CF. They called it cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator or CFTR for short. >> So now you've brought us to 1989. A lot of things have happened since then. A lot of discoveries including many that you've been a part of. So tell us a little bit more. How did we get to the medications that we have today? So the first question after the CFTR gene was discovered was if you take a normal CFTR gene, a CFTR gene that doesn't have variance in it, can that correct the defect? And that was the first experiment we did in collaboration with Alan Smith and his colleagues at Genzyme. And we said yes, we can put a CFDR gene into a a CF cell and now it has chloride transport. That was a particularly exciting experiment for me because I was still doing the experiments myself. The next real issue was you got these instructions, this DNA. What is it doing? What is it making? And there was a lot of speculation at that time that it must be a pump. It must be moving something into or out of the cell and that something then maybe regulates chloride channels. But we took the simplest hypothesis. We said, well, it's a chloride channel. That was so exciting because that opened up subsequent studies. It also said if you're going to go hunting for a new medicine for CF to treat people, your target would be that channel. You try and develop an assay that could measure channel function. After that, we spent a lot of time trying to understand how this channel works. How do these variants break the channel? The common variant that causes most CF particularly in people with northern European ancestry is called delta F508. And we looked at that. We looked at a lot of different ones and and we were able to put them into categories to classify them. Some variants caused the instructions to be so bad that they never make the channel at all. Some variants uh like delta F508 are made but they don't progress through the biosynthetic pathway. They never get to the apical membrane where they can do their work. Some variants are produced but they don't open. And finally some are made get to the cell surface. They open but the channel's not very good. They open up but the channel doesn't really let enough chloride go through. And so that helped us in the field understand what you would learn to be precision medicine. If you want to develop a new medicine to treat cystic fibrosis, you need to know what kind of variant they have, what's wrong. And then you would target towards either something that increases the opening. We might call that a potentiator or something that fixes the transport that assembly line that we would call it a corrector. I think the last thing I'd mention along the way there would be the delta F508 variant. So that's the variant that doesn't traffic to the cell surface. We took cells expressing the variant with CFTR delta F-508 and cooled them down. And when we did that, there it was. Did a gel, looked at it. There's the protein on the gel. It had matured, got to the cell surface. And we were exceptionally excited when we used electrophysiologic techniques and we could see the channels open. They didn't open as well as wild type but they opened about a quarter as well or a third as well amount of time they were open. That and additional experiments told us about how is CFDR broken when it has these variants. And with that we begin to appreciate that CFDR is not totally trashed. You cool it down 6° centigrade from 37 down to 31 or 30° and it works. And some other experiments that we did also said it works. The fact that we could do these fairly innocuous kind of things and get CF terror to work says it's not completely broken. We can't cool people down. We can't put people in the refrigerator to treat their CF. But if we could do that, maybe one could develop a medicine to do that. It gives you hope and it gave you confidence that carrying this on to develop a medicine might be possible. >> So how did all these discoveries that you've told me about end up in the life-changing disease modifying medications that we have today? After CFTR was discovered, after we appreciated how variants cause disrupt the CFTR, there was enormous activity. My co-reients of the Alasker prize, Tito Gonzalez and Paul Neglescu, then took that on, used that technique to try and test multiple chemicals to see if they could fix CFTR. And so that was the start of a big drug discovery effort. And they did a wonderful job of that. And that led first to a drug ivacater and then they developed a three drug combination two drugs to get the channel with delta F508 variant to the cell surface plus ivacater to increase its open time there and that's triricafta. That's a drug that has completely changed the story of cystic fibrosis. I imagine that now there have been advances based on structural biology and actually being able to like visualize in 3D what these proteins look like. Is work in that area coming along? >> Yeah. So I think the leader in that area be Jude Chin. She's at Rockefeller University in New York and she's just doing beautiful work. She's studied structures of CFTR and it's just beautiful to see what this thing looks like. We were so far back in the dark ages when we're guessing what the structure might be. Now we know exactly what it is and that is driving trying to develop new drugs for CFDR. Plus there's work for 10% of the population or maybe more when you consider people who have adverse effects from existing drugs. There's a fair number of people out there who can't take can't benefit from the current medications. So we need to think about them also and there's a huge effort there. Well, that brings me to my next question, which is where do you see the next big breakthroughs for treating the disease? >> I'm not great at guessing the future, but what I can say is there's work along three main lines. The one that has the most attention right now would be genetic therapies. Can we put in a new copy of the CFDR gene? That'd be gene therapy. The other are gene editing. And the gene eding technology continues to get better and better and more and more exciting. The problem still a huge huge problem is just delivery. There's been lots of viruses. You'd think, boy, a virus ought to be a great delivery, a Trojan horse to deliver the gene. But we evolved to keep viruses out of our lungs. So, it's a battle. I'm hoping that there'll be significant progress. There's certainly a lot of effort there. A lot of smart people working on this. I think the other things are we can sort of think about this in the second area. We're in the post-modulator era now. People who have disease and start on the exciting new highly effective modulators, they're improved a lot, but they still continue to have inflammation in their lung, many of them still have infection in their lung. How can we develop treatments to further improve their lungs? The third thing would be can we understand the disease better and improve both people that might be taking a genetic treatment or another treatment. One area where we're working there would be in models. We've developed a pig model of cystic fibrosis and the pigs get disease that looks very much like human CF. And I think that we've using these models to ask what would happen if we developed successful gene therapy. What about the sub mucosal glands? The sub mucosal glands in the airway produce a lot of the mucus. Do you have to fix just the surface cells? The surface cells that line the trachea, the bronchi, the bronchioles, or do you have to get down below the surface to fix the sub mucosal glands? The other thing to think about is the modulators that we currently have, these highly effective medicines are so great because they fix CFTR everywhere in the intestine, the liver, the lung, etc. sweat gland. What happens if you only affect the epithelia in the lung? What are going to be the consequences for the pancreas, for the exocrine pancreas, the endocrine pancreas? People with CF have CF related diabetes. What will be the consequences there? What about the intestine? What about inflammation from those organs? What about inflammation from the lungs? I think we don't understand that. Going back to the start, trying to understand the disease using this pig model and it's given us surprising results. And so we've gone back to that and found some really interesting things about the way kidney is affected by cystic fibrosis by the lung that's affected by cystic fibrosis independent of some of the ways we usually think about. >> So interesting. It feels like researchers will be going back a little bit to the start in terms of applying gene therapies and how to get the systemic benefits from gene editing. It sounds like there's major questions around how that would work. >> Yeah, there are. Everybody has really good ideas of what'll happen if you fix the CFDR gene or put in a new copy. The question is how many cells, which cells. There's a tremendous amount to learn here. Hopefully, it'll be exciting time. Hopefully, the delivery process, there's a lot of progress there and I hope that'll be a successful soon. >> Thank you so much, Dr. Welsh, and congratulations on your Alaska award. >> Well, thank you for talking to me. It's been a pleasure. That's it for this episode. Thanks to my guest, Dr. Michael Welsh. If you'd like to learn more about Dr. Welsh's contributions to the understanding of cystic fibrosis, we'll include a link to a viewpoint he wrote for JAMA in the show description. I'm Jennifer Bossi, director of Jamba Medical News. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at the Jamba Network. To follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online at jambetaudio.com. Thanks for listening and join us again next time. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.