[Rohan] You didn’t finish the cone. [Adam] I didn’t finish the cone, what do I need to do? [Rohan] Make straight line down. [Adam] How’s that, Ro, do you like that? [Rohan] Is that kookoo or what? [Adam] Is that kookoo?! [laughs] [Adam] One beautiful quality about Ro is that he’s so forgiving. And he’s had so many procedures, and he’s been pricked by so many needles, and prodded, and poked, and pulled, and…he hates it in the moment, but he forgives everyone almost immediately, and he’s full of smiles, and he’s just, he always has a smile. [Beena] When he was six months old, I actually got a call at daycare that they were worried Rohan was making some abnormal movements. And Rohan was hooked up to a 24 hour EEG, and that's where they saw the, the typical pattern of what's called infantile spasms, which is a very rare type of seizure. And that was the start of our journey of trying to figure out why Rohan was different. [Voiceover] The diagnostic journey for Rohan, Adam, Beena, and their family included countless tests, medical opinions, and some misdiagnoses. A key test in finally getting the correct diagnosis for Rohan was genome sequencing. This test falls in the category of next generation sequencing, which also includes exome sequencing. Exome sequencing looks at the protein-coding regions of DNA, which have the highest potential for diagnostic findings. Genome sequencing can look at a person's entire DNA, including non-coding regions. Both can help in diagnosing patients; which test is better for any given patient will depend on many factors. But genome sequencing is underutilized as a diagnostic test. Many patients who could benefit from this technology are not accessing it. So let’s take a closer look. [Adam] This is just one of the many EEGs that he had to endure. [Beena] Well, this was actually one of the EEGs from his initial admission. You can see on Adam's face, like this was also the start of us realizing that life was not going to be the same. It was going to be different. [Adam] It sort of consumes your life. I mean, you know, especially for this first 3 to 4 years because it was just, you know, just running from one appointment to the next and for one specialist, that's what your life becomes for a while. [Beena] I think another frustrating thing is that because we didn't have a diagnosis, we didn't know what to expect in terms of his development. [Adam] And you know, like, will he ever be able to talk. Will he ever be able to walk. And these are all questions that we just don't have any answers for. And so we're trying everything we can. [Voiceover] Patients with undiagnosed diseases and their families don’t know what to expect. And this is a key reason why genome sequencing can be valuable. [Dr Manickam] What we're really trying to do is get to the next step of can we anticipate before something happens, what might be coming down the line. And so that's really where the value is. Because that makes treatment that much easier. [Voiceover] Dr Murugu Manickam is a clinical geneticist. He highlights that the potential benefits of genome sequencing are both short term and long term. The foremost short term benefit is arriving at an accurate clinical diagnosis. Other potential short term benefits can include immediate changes in clinical management, like a medication change, or additional testing for diseases associated with that genetic variant. [Dr Manickam] Long term benefits are more broad, so they may be things, again, including medications, including screening, but also thinking about what the long term outcomes are for a patient. So it helps a family decide, hey, this is how we should plan for our child as they get older. And this could be financial, but it could also be just emotional, just to know, you know. I don't have to worry about my child passing away at a young age. And so, therefore, we have to start planning like that. Or it could be that, you know, this is a life limiting condition, and we have to plan for that as well. [Voiceover] Genome sequencing results might also inform family planning, or open up the possibility of joining support groups or clinical trials. Based on current technology, about 30 to 40% of patients who undergo genome sequencing end up with a diagnosis. [Dr Manickam] When we counsel we often talk about the three possibilities for your test are positive, meaning that we found something that explains what we were looking for negative, meaning that we didn't find something that we were looking for, and these variants of uncertain significance. [Voiceover] That’s when the testing identifies a variant, or several variants, that might be the cause, but there just isn’t enough information to be sure one way or the other. About 1 in 4 or 5 patients end up in this limbo, although this varies widely for different groups of patients. And this is also where Rohan and his family ended up. They had genome sequencing done at the Undiagnosed Diseases Network, a research study run by the US National Institutes of Health. Afterwards they followed up with Dr Carlos Prada, their geneticist at the time, to review the results. [Dr Prada] And there were a couple of variants that were suspicious of, what we call uncertain significance. But there was one that, really to me, stick out, which is the variant in a gene called TRA2b or 2 beta, but at that point there was not a lot of information, and no association with human disease. [Voiceover] Dr Prada continued investigating this variant. He connected with other clinicians who had encountered variants in the same gene. Eventually, they collaborated with additional researchers to complete functional studies, which more definitely established that these variants could indeed cause the types of symptoms the clinicians were seeing. [Dr Prada] I was able to reach out to Beena and Adam and say, hey, I think we actually have the right diagnosis. And there is this group that has done functional studies, and I feel like the data is compelling. [Beena] And so that was how we first really found out that this was the gene that they thought was explaining everything that was going on with Rohan. [Voiceover] Rohan’s case was included in a paper published in 2023, describing a new neurodevelopmental disorder, and Rohan was one of only 12 people known to have it. [Beena] Rohan would have been almost ten years old. You know, if you think about the fact that his infantile spasms started when, when he was six months old, that's how long it has taken us to get to an answer. [Voiceover] This underscores how the utility of genome sequencing is limited by our current understanding of human disease-causing variants. And for some patients, this is made worse by bias. Historically, genetics research has been done primarily in populations of European descent, so patients with non-European ancestry may be less likely to receive a diagnosis. But this field is evolving rapidly, and the genetic data obtained for a patient can be reanalyzed periodically. [Dr Prada] So you have to think about a genome as a test that is alive. Yeah, in a way. And that you can access the information over time. In a year or two years you can reanalyze that information and maybe get the answer that you did not have two years ago. [Voiceover] Genome sequencing can be helpful to patients of all ages, from newborns to older adults. In a 2023 paper published in JAMA, the diagnostic yield for genome sequencing in a NICU setting was 49%, versus 27% for a targeted neonatal gene panel. In that study, care was altered for 19% of participants. There is also growing data on the utility of genome sequencing for newborn screening. A 2024 JAMA study that enrolled 4000 newborns compared traditional newborn screening with expanded newborn screening using genome sequencing. In that study, the expanded screening identified 110 positive results that were not detected by traditional newborn screening. The availability of strong evidence like these two studies means that clinicians who take care of newborns, especially in the NICU, is one of the clinician groups who have more exposure to using genome sequencing to improve diagnosis. [Dr Manickam] The people who don't have as much exposure are the primary care doctors, who are taking care of kids and adults, and how many of them may actually benefit from getting genome sequencing, because it may reveal other risk factors for them. [Voiceover] According to Dr Manickam, it's these older kids and adults who are currently not getting the full benefit of genome sequencing. He highlights patients with unexplained intellectual disabilities. [Dr Manickam] I think they are ones that have maybe fallen through the cracks, or they're just, you know, their families are living their lives, and the schools are doing the best they can, and the family is doing the best they can. But we still don't have an underlying diagnosis for them, and there may be something that may be coming down the line. For example, they could develop cardiac issues or they could develop seizures or something like that as they get older. And so sometimes knowing that information would actually help the family. [Voiceover] Genome sequencing could also be considered for patients with medical complexity, patients with atypical presentation, such as early onset or more severe symptoms, patients who are regressing, and also “difficult-to-treat” patients, for instance if they’re not responding to the standard of care or need multiple drugs for symptom control. [Dr Prada] So the nice thing about the technology is because, in my field, which is rare disorders, even if you're doing rare disorders, it takes you a long time to a lot. And there's people that could be in practice for 40 years and never see something. So I feel like this technology really levels the field for the patient because you're not waiting until someone recognize me, yeah. So it just, I just need the access to the technology that allows someone to know what I have. I feel like that's where genome fits, sort of, in our lives today. [Voiceover] Dr Prada is hopeful that access to genome sequencing is increasing. But right now patients and clinicians still face multiple barriers, including high costs, spotty insurance coverage, long wait times for consultation, insufficient integration into primary care, geographic maldistribution of genetics services, and concerns about genetic discrimination. Another key piece is lack of training and awareness among both non-genetics providers and patients. For Rohan and his family, the long journey to a diagnosis is over. But a different journey to make sure he can continue to reach new milestones—and keep smiling—is ongoing. [Adam] You can see the joy on his face at his favorite place on Earth right now, which is, Costco, Costco Tires. And they they said that if he does well at school and he gets good grades and he can come work there, so that he's sort of counting on that.