Are you a medical student? Do you know what you need to know about Foley catheters? Let's talk about it. A Foley catheter is a soft tube like these used to drain urine directly from the bladder and is often used in the hospital setting. In fact, around 100 million urinary catheters are used around the world each year and approximately one in five patients in US hospitals have a fully catheter during their admission. Folley catheterss come in different sizes with sizes commonly following the French sizing system. The bigger the French number, the bigger the diameter of the tube. A 16 or 18 French catheter is generally recommended for men and a 14 or 16 French for women. It's also important to know that Foley catheters come in different shapes. The most commonly used has a straight tip, but a curve tip catheter, also known as a coupet catheter like this, may be advisable in male patients with enlarged prostates. Fully catheters should be placed using a sterile technique. One common pitfall in the placement of these catheters is inflation of the balloon in the urethra, not the bladder. This pitfall is more common in men and can be avoided by advancing the catheter all the way to the hub prior to the inflation of the balloon. These catheters are used for a variety of reasons, including patients who are unable to urinate on their own, have undergone surgery, are critically ill, or have kidney dysfunction and need to have their urine output carefully recorded. Although these catheterss have many advantages and in fact are crucial at times, they do have their disadvantages as well, with the most common one being that they do put patients at an increased risk of infection, also known as a cotti. In fact, the risk of bacteria in urine is 3 to 7% per day, and these infections pose a significant problem to patients. They result in needing more antibiotics and longer hospital stays. It has been estimated that more than 50% of these infections could be prevented. So, to make sure you're ready for your part, check out all the details in this review article published in JAMAMA Surgery.