 and alfalfa. From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Internal Medicine Author Interviews, conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in JAMA Internal Medicine. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. This is Dr. Eve Rittenberg, and you're listening to JAMA Internal Medicine Author Interviews. Thanks for joining us. I just love the paper that we'll discuss today because it gives us a reality check on what to expect when we order imaging studies. It's easy to imagine that a study like an MRI for shoulder pain will give us the information we need to make clinical decisions, but it turns out findings on shoulder MRIs may not always be so helpful. To shed light on why that's the case, I'm joined by two expert guests today. First, Dr. Thomas Ibonic, who quantified the prevalence of rotator cuff abnormalities in the general population in Finland, and then examined how those findings correspond with shoulder symptoms. So, Dr. Ibonic is a shoulder and elbow surgeon at the Helsinki University Hospital researcher at the Thinish Center for Evidence-Based Orthopedics at the University of Helsinki. Welcome Dr. Ibonic. Happy to be here. And we're also joined by Dr. Brian Feely, the Chief of Sports Medicine and Shoulder Surgery in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at UCSF, and a professor of Sports Medicine Research. And he's also a team physician of the San Francisco Giants. Welcome Dr. Feely. Thanks for having me and thanks Thomas for an awesome paper. To start off, Thomas, could you set the scene for us? Why did you think it was important to look at the relationship of rotator cuff abnormalities on MRI with clinical shoulder symptoms? Yeah, so modern medicine has brought us many improvements regarding diagnostics and treatments. And one of those improvements are the modern imaging modalities that we have at our disposal. And I think that current diagnostics, especially in orthopedics, very much rely on those imaging modalities. And we are very focused on identifying structural changes as a way of explaining our patients' problems. Absolutely. So even from a general intra-nuz perspective, I think that's true as well. So not only, you know, especially to care about, we often order these as like a very early evaluation. And I mean, I think that it makes a lot of sense in trauma care, for example. We have a patient that arrives at the emergency department after an injury. We are pain imaging. We identify a structural problem such as a displaced fracture. And then we restore anatomy. And in these situations, fixing the structure leads most likely to better outcomes. But the challenge comes when we extend the same way of thinking to non-traumatic conditions. We know from other joints that some of these abnormalities that we seek and find with our imaging actually are also present in persons without symptoms. Before we apply the same biologic rationale on people with non-traumatic conditions, I think that we need to ask ourselves a question, and that's what is actually normal. So let's get into your study. So you took a random sample of adults. You clinically assessed their shoulders with questionnaires and interviews and standardized physical exams, and you did MRIs. So can you tell us, like, you know, what was surprising about what you found? Well, of course, we somehow had a suspicion that we might find some sub-imaging abnormalities also in persons without symptoms. But what was really surprising for us was that in persons aged over 40 years, basically imaging abnormalities were universal. So we found imaging abnormalities in 99% of participants. I mean, that's just stunning, right? Nothing that everybody had something abnormal, the MRI. Exactly. And of course, we need to a little bit differentiate. Of course, there's a different spectrum of abnormalities. So regarding the rotator cuff, we can have minor changes like tendinopathy, and then we have more structural and severe changes like partial thickness rotator cuff tears and full thickness rotator cuff tears. And of course, when we are talking about the 99%, that also includes minor changes that are the most prevalent changes in younger individuals. But we have also seen in our study that the older participants get, the more severe the spectrum of changes also becomes. I would love you to talk a little bit more about that, because that was one of the most surprising findings to me, actually, was looking at even full thickness tears in older people. Can you talk a little bit about those more, what I would have thought of as like, must be clinically significant findings? Yeah, correct. The prevalence of full thickness tears, we found in our study that at the age of 40, basically they were not present full thickness rotator cuff tears. But then at the age of 70 or above, the prevalence increased to over 20%, which is quite a lot, which is basically every fifth person that we encounter on the street basically has a full thickness rotator cuff tear. And the majority of these persons doesn't even know that they have a full thickness rotator cuff tear. I mean, that is incredibly striking to me. I'm going to turn now to Brian and ask if you can give us a little context on why maybe that over diagnosis of shoulder pathology matters. Sure. So I think one of the challenges that we have as Thomas and I are surgeons is we're often not the ones ordering the MRI, we're often the ones interpreting the MRI. And then trying to juxtapose what patients are feeling and what the MRI findings are is already a challenge. And when you throw in how these reports are dictated to patients, you have to think back to when radiologists decided that this is how our report's going to look. These are the words that we are going to use. Those were reports that were made to go to other physicians, not to a patient. So if I may, let's say I'm a 51 year old person with a little bit of shoulder pain, but maybe a little bit of neck pain. And then I get an MRI and it shows circumferential degenerative tearing of the labrum most severe at the biceps labrum complex with partial thickness fraying of the rotator cuff in the supraspinatus with severe tendinopathy. Well that sounds horrible. Like it sounds like my shoulder is about to fall off. It sounds like that I need a Drew Brees 360 degree labral repair. I probably need a cuff repair, maybe a replacement, but the MR the wrong shoulder, that was normal. That's just normal finding. So studies like this are really, really important so that we can use this to help interpret what aging looks like in the shoulder to a patient. The thing that I usually say to patients when they're really concerned about the words that are used in the MRI is it's like your cell phone or your iPhone has now reported what your face and hair look like. So all of us, I know this is a podcast, but all of us would be shown as having degenerative changes to either the color or hairline and we don't panic about it because we don't read the reports. So I think what's really important about this study is it's going to allow us to again give context to patients and primary care providers of people with shoulder pain to help differentiate what's a normal finding and what's something that we would want to be more serious about intervening. That focus on language is so interesting and important. I think as patients now read their reports, you know, often before the ordering clinician sees it or is able to give context, that shoulder you described does sound incredibly frightening, right? What do you think might be helpful? Like, do you have some guidance either for the clinicians who are sort of mediating these reports to patients or for radiologists to change the language? What do you think would be helpful? Yeah, I think for radiologists, I think honestly a way to rephrase this and we see this somewhat the spine literature and the spine reports because the other place where I think this is extremely common is low back pain and normal degenerative changes. So oftentimes in low back pain patients, it'll say L4, L5, disc degeneration consistent with age and then it doesn't sound nearly as scary. I think for people ordering the MRIs, it's important to know what we're ordering the MRI for. If Thomas and I as surgeons are getting an MRI, it is not to establish diagnosis. It's really to look at what's my surgical plan. If this is a crescent shaped tear versus a U shaped tear, do I need to augment this? It is not a yes, no. They may have a shoulder problem. We can figure that out with physical exam and history. It is more for a surgical diagnosis and plan and how are we going to plan on treating this in the future and a little bit for prognosis, not for establishing diagnosis. And when I explain that to patients in that way, like, I'm not getting an MRI on you because it's not going to change management. You have a little bit of shoulder pain. We've tried nothing. Let's do some physical therapy because nine out of 10 times, it's going to work. You don't want surgery anyway. Let's avoid the cost of the MRI. Most patients, not all, most patients are pretty happy with that. So Thomas, you talked a little bit about when it is important to order the MRIs in a trauma case. Brian, you talked a little bit about not ordering it right away in a traumatic shoulder sometimes. There are points with your framework in mind and with the findings of the study in mind where you would think it appropriate for non-surgeons to be ordering shoulder MRIs where we might learn something. Well, I completely agree with Brian on what he said. Basically the person ordering the MRI should have already a good idea what he is looking for. And basically, the MRI does not make the treatment plan. It just confirms or helps us to specify our treatment. So that's very important. So if you start ordering an MRI because you don't know what to do and what's the cause of symptoms of the patient, then you're probably going to get into more trouble later on. So definitely we first need to have a good clinical suspicion of what we want to see or will see. And also then when we have the findings, we need to translate that language into a patient language that the patient understands but is not worried about the terms we use. I love that idea of adding in phrases such as consistent with age. I think that's a really nice way of putting it into clinical context. And not using words like severe. Tendinopathy can just be present or absent. I don't want anything in my body to be severe, but if I read it on a report, I'm going to worry about it. Yeah, that's a great point. To end this, I'd like to know from both of you, what do you think are the next steps? What do you think your next research plan or what you think would move this field forward? I think that our study provides some very important answers to questions, but it actually poses more questions than it provides answers. So it basically shows us that our current diagnostic process has some limitations. And before we focus on improving treatments and outcomes, we first, I think, need to take a step back and start improving our diagnostics in a way that we can find those clinically relevant changes and be better able to distinguish those from those findings that are not clinically relevant. Brian, what do you think about that? Totally agree. I want Thomas to do this for hip and knee, particularly knee, because the same thing comes up. I think for joints that get arthritis, too, as we get an aging population and the world is getting older, our knee jerk response is to want to get the most advanced imaging right away because that's what an athlete got or that's what my friend Martha got when her knee hurt. And the reality is so much can be diagnosed with a good history, not even a good history, but it's just a decent history, a halfway decent physical exam and an x-ray. And the number of times, for instance, we see somebody with pretty advanced shoulder knee arthritis that comes in with an MRI, that's a tremendously expensive time invasive imaging study that didn't actually help us at all as surgeons. And it doesn't help the patient. And then it ends up being more time to talk them back over, you need an x-ray so we can figure out how we're going to replace this joint. And no, none of those findings are actually relevant to your underlying primary diagnosis. And I think that largely goes back to education, both for patients, which I do think is getting better and better, and also to primary care and other physicians that are ordering these and help them give them the tools to explain this quickly because when Thomas and I see a patient, we get to focus on the shoulder, which is awesome. It's totally great, but it allows a very different experience than a primary care doctor who always gets the opposite. You've covered diabetes, you've covered the heart disease, you've covered some low back pain, and then all of a sudden at the very end, it's like, oh, my shoulder hurts. We fix that too. It's like, let's just get an MRI. And I think we need to be able to give primary care doctors the tools to say, yes, we can fix that. Let's start with some physical therapy and don't go on the internet to read about all the bad things yet because they're probably not relevant. I really like that approach and sort of acknowledgement of all the different pressures that might be contributing to overordering of the machine studies. So thank you both so much. I really enjoyed talking to you. And I'm Dr. Eve Rittenberg. I've been speaking with Dr. Thomas Ibuenig and Dr. Brian Feely about the incidental rotator abnormalities on MRI. You can find a link to the articles we discussed in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Daniel Moro at the JAMA Network. You can find a link to the manuscript in the episode's show notes. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with All Rights Reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.