[Automatically generated] Announcer From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Clinical Reviews, interviews and ideas about innovations in medicine, science, and clinical practice Here's your host. Walter Hello, and welcome to our listeners around the world. I'm Dr. Kristen Walter, Deputy Editor at JAMA. And I'm joined today by Dr. Ben Solomon, who is a medical oncologist at the Peter MacCallum Centre in Melbourne, Australia. Today we will be discussing a JAMA review article that he co-authored titled Lung Cancer and Non-Smoking Individuals. This article was published online in JAMA on October 20th. Dr. Solomon, thank you so much for joining us on this podcast. Solomon Thank you so much, Dr. Walter. It's a real pleasure to be with you. Before starting, I'd like to point out that in your article the term non-smoking individuals are defined as people who have smoked fewer than a hundred cigarettes in their lifetime, and those who have smoked more than one hundred cigarettes in their lifetime are defined as having a history of smoking. So your article states that lung cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide, and that if lung cancer in non-smoking individuals were classified as a distinct entity, it would be the seventh most common cancer. Can you discuss what percentage of all lung cancers worldwide occur in non-smoking individuals? Thanks very much for that question. So lung cancer is a big problem globally. In addition to being diagnosed frequently, lung cancer accounts for more cancer-related deaths than any other cancer worldwide. And we think that about fifteen to twenty percent of all cases of lung cancer occur in non-smoking individuals. And what is the annual incidence of lung cancer in non-smoking individuals in the US? In the US and actually in countries like Australia where I'm from. About one in ten men who get diagnosed with lung cancer have no history of cigarette consumption, and about one in five women who get diagnosed with lung cancer have not smoked. There's some geographic variation in other parts of the world, in particular East Asia, the incidence, particularly among women, is higher where more than 50% of women in some parts of Asia report no history of cigarette consumption. And can you discuss whether the incidence of lung cancer in non-smoking individuals in the US and worldwide is increasing or decreasing? What's clear is that smoking incidence is reducing in the US and that the proportion of patients who have not smoked who get diagnosed with lung cancer is increasing. It's a little bit less clear whether there is an absolute increase in the number of cases of lung cancer in non-smoking individuals. although global data seems to indicate that this is the case and as we'll discuss later there are some risk factor factors that relate to lung cancer in non-smoking individuals, such as air pollution, which in contrast to the reduction in smoking incidents we're seeing maintain and maybe even an increase in in importance. And what is the most common histology of lung cancers in non-smoking individuals and how does that compare to the histology among people with a history of smoking? In non-smoking individuals, about 60 to 80% of patients have adenocarcinoma histology. Less commonly, patients may be diagnosed with squamous or adenosquamous histology in maybe fifteen to twenty percent of cases and very rarely with small cell histology. In contrast, in patients with a history of smoking, adenocarcinoma accounts for around forty percent of cases and histologies such as squamous histology are more frequent. And are there differences in terms of age at diagnosis and sex in lung cancer? That is diagnosed in non-smoking individuals versus those with a history of smoking? Not a big deal of difference. The median age may be slightly lower in patients without a history of smoking. There may be a slight female predominance in individuals without smoking history that have been diagnosed with lung cancer. And you touched on this briefly earlier, but I was hoping you could talk more about the ethnic, racial, and geographic differences in the incidence of lung cancer among individuals who do not smoke. Sure. So there do seem to be ethnic and geographical variation. So we discussed earlier that in parts of Asia, particularly East Asia, China, Taiwan, that lung cancer in never smokers is quite prevalent. Maybe fifty percent or more of women diagnosed with lung cancer report no history of smoking. So there does seem to be something about Asian ethnicity which increases risk of lung cancer. This interestingly is also the case in the United States where people with a history of Asian ancestry have an increased risk of lung cancer compared to white individuals. The most common risk factor for lung cancer is smoking. But what are the most common risk factors for non-smoking individuals? So in terms of risk factors, Asian ethnicity as we mentioned is a risk factor. Yeah, family history of lung cancer is also another risk factor for lung cancer, but in fact most individuals that get diagnosed with lung cancer without a smoking history don't have identifiable risk factors. So you briefly mentioned air pollution earlier. Can you discuss some other environmental exposures that are associated with the increased risk of lung cancer in non-smoking individuals? Indeed, all those factors are important. Radon, which is gas formed through the radioactive decay of uranium in soil and is a risk factor in the United States and around the world. Passive smoking remains a risk factor and I think it's important that policy and public health measures to reduce exposure to secondhand smoke continue to gain momentum as well as occupational exposures that you mentioned, such as asbestos. But I think the factor which is gaining recognition in importance is air pollution and this air pollution can be both outdoor air pollution as well as indoor air pollution. And the outdoor air pollution can be through mechanisms such as diesel exhaust through smoke from factories or coal-fired power stations, and even through wood fires and forest fires, which can be a problem in both Australia and the United States. The indoor air pollution can occur through cooking fumes, through indoor cooking, which is particularly an issue in Asia. And what's been found is that there's a particular size of particulate matter in the pollution, so-called PM 2.5s, which are particulates in the air that are less than 2.5 microns that are able to enter the lungs and get to the air spaces and even the blood and are responsible for causing lung cancer in an increasing number of individuals. And can you describe some familial and genetic risk factors for lung cancer in non-smoking individuals? There's an increased risk in individuals that have a family history in particular first degree relative with lung cancer. The exact genes that cause that risk are less clear. There have been genome-wide association studies that have identified regions on chromosome five and chromosome three in particular that have been associated with increased risk and this has enabled the development of so-called polygenic risk scores to identify these populations. Very rarely, mutations in the epidermal growth factor receptor or eGFR mutations or another gene called YAP1 have been identified in families with a high risk of lung cancer in both Western and Asian populations. Your article also states that tumors from non-smoking individuals have a lower number of somatic mutations than patients with a history of smoking but are more likely to have therapeutically targetable genomic variants such as eGFR variants or ALK gene rearrangements. Can you just discuss this a little further? Yeah, this is so important to appreciate because it has big therapeutic implications. So we know that tumors from individuals with a smoking history, as you point out, have a lot of damage related to the carcinogens in tobacco, which increase the number of mutations within the genome. And these mutations can give rise to neoantigens, which can make tumors visible to the immune system and potentially make treatments with immunotherapy more effective In contrast, tumors from individuals without a smoking history have less of these mutations throughout the genome and less neoantigens, and this translates to a lower likelihood of response to immunotherapy. In contrast, however, they do have an increased frequency of therapeutically actionable oncogenic alterations, and in particular eGFR mutations which you mentioned, which can be seen in forty or fifty percent of individuals without a history of smoking and rearrangements in the anaplastic lymphoma kinase or ALK gene, which can be found in 10 or 15% of patients. And it's absolutely critical that we identify these alterations because we have effective targeted therapies that can be so useful in these patients. To reduce lung cancer mortality, the U. S. Preventive Services Task Force has recommended low-dose CT screening for individuals aged fifty to eighty, who currently smoke or who quit within the prior fifteen years and have twenty pack years or more history of smoking. What are the USPSTF recommendations about lung cancer screening in non-smoking individuals? So currently there are no specific recommendations for screening in non-smoking individuals. There are data from other parts of the world, in particular Taiwan, which show benefit in a certain context to screening in these individuals. In Taiwan in women age greater than forty-five and men age greater than fifty with a first degree relative with lung cancer. Those individuals are eligible for screening and in fact the incidence of lung cancer in that population was two percent, suggesting that those criteria, at least in that context, can identify a population that would benefit from screening. It is difficult to translate that to the Western population and what we do need is biomarkers or some other mechanism for identifying a population within non-smokers that would benefit from screening. But there's a clear unmet need to do this. Your article also discusses that most non-smoking individuals with lung cancer are diagnosed at an advanced stage, typically with unresectable locally advanced disease like stage three or distant metastatic disease, stage four. What are some potential reasons that early detection of lung cancer in non-smoking individuals is difficult? Some of the reasons are the same as why lung cancer is difficult to detect across the board. Often it doesn't present with symptoms until it's at an advanced stage. But there is also an important perception that lung cancer only occurs in individuals with a smoking history, which um may be a factor in the delayed diagnosis of some or many individuals without a smoking history. There is a campaign called All You Need Is Lungs, which is run by a patient advocacy group, which draws attention to the fact that lung cancer should be considered on the differentials for both individuals with a smoking history as well as individuals without a smoking history. Your article discusses treatment for lung cancer and that it doesn't differ among non-smoking individuals and those with a smoking history. Can you discuss treatment options for patients with early stage and locally advanced lung cancer? Sure. So it's true that treatment doesn't differ based solely on smoking status, but it is impacted by the presence or absence of genetic alterations such as eGFR mutations or ALK rearrangements. And this impacts treatment across stages from early to advanced stage. In the context of early-stage disease, tumors are usually treated with surgery, but we now know that the addition of chemotherapy and immunotherapy prior to surgery, so-called neoadjuvant chemotherapy and immunotherapy can improve outcomes. We also know, however, that patients whose tumors have mutations in eGFR or ALK do not tend to benefit from immunotherapy. In contrast, we've got data to show that those patients are better served having what's called adjuvant tyrosine kinase inhibitors after treatment. So after surgery, patients whose tumors have an eGFR alteration have benefit demonstrated with three years of adjuvant treatment with an eGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor with both a disease-free survival and an overall survival benefit and similarly the case for patients with ALK gene rearrangements where treatment with an adjuvant ALK inhibitor is shown benefit And can you discuss treatment options for patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic lung cancer? In patients with unresectable or metastatic disease. It's absolutely critical that these patients have upfront testing to determine the presence of oncogenic drivers and to really determine what their optimal first-line therapy is. There have been numerous studies that have shown that in a patient that has an oncogenic driver identified, such as an eGFR mutation or an ALK, rearrangement. Optimal first line therapy is with a targeted therapy. Trials have shown superiority of this approach compared to chemotherapy, and this really is the basis of precision medicine for cancer. And these drugs have transformed outcomes for patients. I remember when I started as a oncology trainee over 20 years ago, it was very rare to see patients living for more than a year or two years with advanced disease. We now have patients who live and live well for five or even ten years after their diagnosis with these targeted therapies. Your article also mentions the importance of patient education, psychosocial support, and palliative care. for non-smoking individuals diagnosed with lung cancer. Could you discuss this further? I think it's absolutely critical that we work very hard to make sure that patients live as long as they can. But I think we also have to make sure that they live as well as they can. And hence the importance of these approaches, symptom support to manage toxicities related to treatment to manage the psychological burden that comes with the diagnosis of lung cancer, to make sure that these patients are able to live as normal a life as as they can. And we also now tend to involve a broader team, including colleagues from palliative care, to provide support throughout the lung cancer journey, not just at the end of it. Before closing, is there anything that we didn't discuss in this podcast that you'd like to mention? I would like to draw attention to the fact though that there are still many unmet needs for this population. We talked about our inability to have strategies to screen patients without a history of lung cancer, we need to develop ways to identify these tumors at an early stage so that we can move towards actually curing these cancers. Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts with us about this interesting and very important topic. I'm Dr. Kristen Walter and I've been speaking with Dr. Ben Solomon from the Peter MacCallum Centre in Melbourne, Australia. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Shelly Steffens at the JAMA Network. Thanks for listening. Disclaimer This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.