Lung cancer in non-smoking people may be more common than you think. Here are five key takeaways from a paper recently published in JAMAMA. Lung cancer is the third most diagnosed cancer worldwide, but if lung cancer in non-smoking individuals, defined as people who have smoked less than 100 cigarettes in their whole lifetime, were to categorize as a distinct entity, then that would be the seventh most common cancer. About 15 to 20% of all lung cancers occur in non-smoking people. And this number is unfortunately increasing. There are several known risk factors for developing lung cancer in a non-smoking individual. Having a first-degree relative with lung cancer, such as a parent or a sibling, increases someone's risk of also developing lung cancer. Environmental factors also play a role. These include things like secondhand smoke exposure, which increases cancer risk by about 28%. Radon, which is a radioactive compound found in the soil, is a known carcinogen and causes up to 21,000 lung cancer related deaths in the United States annually. Asbesses and silica which can be inhaled by people who work in jobs like construction and mining can also increase lung cancer risk. Air pollution is also a risk factor. In 2022, it was linked to approximately 200,000 cases of lung adnocarcinoma worldwide. There are also molecular differences between lung cancer in smoking versus non-smoking individuals. Lung cancer in non-smoking people are more likely to have DNA mutations that can be targeted by treatment. Lung cancer can present with symptoms like cough, shortness of breath, chest pain, and weight loss. However, about a third of non-smoking people with lung cancer were asymptomatic at the time of their diagnosis. Unfortunately, most lung cancer and non-smoking people are diagnosed at very advanced stages. Currently, the US preventive services task force only recommends lung cancer screening for those with smoking history. However, screening guidelines do vary worldwide. Taiwan, which has a high rate of lung cancer in non-smoking people, introduced bianual screening CTS in non-smoking individuals with a family history of lung cancer. With this screening method, 77.4% of lung cancers were diagnosed at stage 1. Go to this article to learn more.