- What would have to change? And is that possible to shift that to be a more efficient market? - One or two things. First, the quickest path, I wouldn't say quick, but the most direct path is to require them, the big insurance companies, the biggest three insurance companies, to divest non-insurance assets. If you don't get them to divest, They effectively have, there's regulatory capture and there's scale capture. And scale capture is, "We're so big, nobody really understands how the money flows and how the pieces are interrelated" so that they really define the rules of all the economics of the healthcare industry. And I say that completely literally. Divesting not just PBMs, but all their subsidiaries that are not insurance-specific. - I see, yeah. - So, you know, if you happen to be a big insurance company and you own a hospital, or a provider, or an oncology center, or an infusion center, or a PBM, or, you know, physicians' practices, and, you know, we need to make this just like AT&T in 1984, where they controlled all telecommunications. Literally, there's one big healthcare company that's got 2,600 subsidiaries. Their intercompany transfers are $200 billion. That's like 0.6% of the GDP of this country. That's how much control and influence they have. There's just no way for that market to be efficient. They can left pocket right pocket things. "We're just charging you what the physician charged us, or what the provider charged us, or what the center charged us. And we're just passing it along." And the employer has no idea that they're getting marked up in a way that is just going right to the insurer. Now, that's part one: you break them up. And if I was a Democrat or a Republican, that would be what I was pushing right now. The second thing is, and what I'm trying to do is educate employers. There's, you know, 160 million plus beneficiaries in self-pay plans, right? And some of them are public, some of them are private. I'll walk into the CEO of a company, I can walk in, and within five minutes, give you 20 things that tell you how you're getting ripped off. And, you know, so for instance, right now, we just rolled over to a new year. I'll go to the pharmacy side. And let's just say that you happen to use a branded medication. I don't know what your deductibles are for your employees, but for easy numbers, let's just say it's $2,000, okay? And so if you happen to be prescribed a branded medication that has a retail price of $600. Eliquis was $609 until they just changed it, right? You have to pay that full retail price until you reach - Yep, yeah. - Your deductible. - My deductible, right. - So where does that money go? Well, for a branded medication like Eliquis was at $600, 50% of that is rebate. And so your beneficiary plan holder is paying full retail price, so which first of all means that PBM that you hired is the worst negotiator on the planet, even though they sell themselves as being better for reducing drug prices because every single one of your beneficiaries, your members, that is using a branded medication, is paying full retail and 50% of that, give or take, depending on what the rebate is, right, is going to the PBM who keeps, let's say, 10% of it and sends it to you as your rebate, right? And I'll sit with the CEO, and tell them, "Do you really understand now that your sickest employees and those with the most chronic illnesses that need medications are writing your company a check through those rebates?" And then they'll talk to their HR person. They'll be in a panic because I'm like, "Look, not only are they writing you a check, but there're gonna be times when they don't buy their medications because their take-home pay may be $30,000 a year and they couldn't afford the high premium, so they took the higher deductible, and so they can't afford it, and somebody, God forbid, may drop dead because you hired a PBM that wanted to charge them full retail price and you did nothing about it." - So you wanna get employers, they're the purchasers, to be involved because you think they can negotiate better because- - Yeah, they have no clue what they're doing. - They have no clue. - In many cases, they're using consultants, or brokers, who are ripping them off even further. Some of those consultants are getting fees from the PBM/insurance companies, and now the PBMs are getting smarter so it doesn't come from the PBM, it comes from a subsidiary, or somewhere else within the empire, if you will, of subsidiaries. And so, as an employer, you don't know these things. Particularly for a CEO, it's not your core competency to understand your HR benefits. Particularly, you know, how people are paying for brand medications within their deductible phase. And so I'll walk in there and start educating them on how that works. Healthcare, it's your second largest expense item after payroll and you have no clue where the expenses come from. - Yeah, it's very interesting to hear you pull it all together because I think you're describing a system where everybody is trying to find some little leverage point in it to get something more. - And who knows the least? And who has the least ability to protect themselves? - Well, patients for sure. - The patient. - Yes, exactly. Maybe there are no good guys in this. - Patients are definitely losing. - The doctors are still the good guys. - Okay, okay, that's good. I like that.