- What are one of two things you'd like clinicians to know about this so that they could get involved or understand? - So, another great question. So if you look at independent pharmacies, they're closing by the hundreds a year, if not more. And the reason they're closing is that for those same brand medications, that they won't allow to be sold through Cost Plus Drugs, when they get reimbursed by insurance companies. So when you walk in the door for that Eliquis, since that's the most popular prescribed drug, and it costs them $570, the insurance company's probably reimbursing them $560. For a $1,300 GLP-1 that costs them $1,300, they may only be reimbursed $750. And so they won't even try to fill it. They'll send it to you know, a chain competitor. And that's very analogous to what's happening to independent physicians and what the independent pharmacies did, they created associations that go out and lobby. They have smart people like Doug Hoey that, you know, stand out there and say, this is wrong. And so now you're starting to see a lot of legislation from states. Oklahoma is leading the way, Arkansas is leading the way. Pennsylvania is starting to do some things, Texas hopefully will do stuff in the near future that require that PBMs have to fully reimburse and pay a fill fee, you know, a fee for the pharmacist's time. And they can't steer patients to their own captive pharmacies. That's exact same thing that's happening with physicians. I mean, it's the exact same thing. Physicians are getting under reimbursed, they're getting late paid, they're getting clawbacks, right, after the fact, after they've offered the service. Right, they can't compete with the captive clinics and providers that the insurance companies own. Right, and they're being put out of network so that even if your best friend is a doctor in network and they know that you are the best specialist, you know, for this patient, your best friend gets dinged and they're not allowed even to refer you to, you guys don't have an organization calling everybody out for all this bull that's just sliding down on your head. That's dumb, right? - Well what I hear you is we all need to be better informed and then advocate, 'cause ultimately this is something that is not. - Yes, but you can't advocate individually. And you guys need to be a lot bolder, a lot louder, and call out all these other people. And I'm trying to get into it, now as I'm learning it, and I still have a lot to learn. I'm trying like this conversation, trying to call out, you know, the insurance companies for doing that to independent physicians because that kills healthcare in this country. And it also forces them to either to get out of the business, now they're pushing into direct primary care or they sell out and then when they sell out, now they're having to do 10 surgeries on ankles a day. Right, and not that they can't, not that they don't love doing it. Not that they don't wanna maximize the number of of patients, but it's exhausting. - Sure, sure. - You know. - Yeah. - If I'm getting a hip replacement again, if I'm getting a hip replacement again, I want my doctor rested. You know, not worrying about the next nine they have to do that day. - So you heard it here first, wants doctors golfing on Wednesday. - Yes. - Excellent. - Yes, or playing Mahjong, I don't care. (laughing)