From the Jamba Network, this is Jamba Clinical Reviews. Interviews and ideas about innovations in medicine, science, and clinical practice. Here's your host. Hello and welcome to our listeners from around the world. I'm Dr. Kristen Walter, deputy editor at JAMAMA. I'm joined today by Dr. David Christiani who is professor of environmental genetics at the Harvard Thchan School of Public Health and professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts. Today we will be discussing a JAMAMA insights article that he co-authored with Dr. Mahalagaya and Dr. Nidau titled microplastics and human health. This article was published online in JAMAMA on October 15th. Dr. Christian, thank you so much for joining us on this podcast. >> My pleasure. >> Before we start discussing microplastics, I was hoping we could talk about the larger topic of plastics. Your article provides some information about the current and projected rates of plastic production worldwide. Can you discuss these rates? Yes, plastics have been with us for a long time as you know and they're being expanded in terms of their use in production and basically everywhere through all the products we use and in the environment after degradation. So to give a perspective, plastic production totally meaning all plastics of various sizes and types was about 435 million tons in 2020. that had almost doubled in 20 years and it's expected by 2040 to increase by another 70%. So it's a huge amount of plastics in our environment. >> And what is the definition of plastics? What are they composed of? >> Most plastics are petroleum based. There are synthetic materials composed of polymers such as polyester which of course we have many of our clothes made out of it and other materials. Other compounds that are used in piping and toys, polyethylene comes to mind. And then there are others that maybe are not commonly talked about although you can read it on labels. things like polyropylene, polyurethane, which are urethane compounds used in furniture, paints, in hard plastics. So almost everything we touch in a day contains plastics. Going from the containers our food is in to the cosmetics you might use and creams in the morning to the car to kids lunchbox. I mean, it's literally everywhere. And how many groups of chemicals in plastics are considered majorly concerning due to their high toxicity and their potential to migrate or to be released from plastics? So, it's a good question because there's something like 13,000 chemicals that are either plastics or associated with plastics, but they're really about 10 groups that are identified as being major health concerns due to toxicity and their potential to migrate from fully formed plastics to smaller and smaller compounds that can be ingested or inhaled into the body. These are things like flame retardants, certain stabilizers to protect against sun degradation, things that we know about in the news a lot. People talk about PA fossils, poly floral alkalle substances, a long word, but they're flame retardants also. And they're also on non-stick pans in the kitchen, for example, and some utensils used in the kitchen. things like phalates, soft plastics, including water containers, soft drink containers, and a bunch of compounds known as phenols, which may be from our organic chemistry days, but they're also related to soft plastics. Those are the general groups of concern. They also unfortunately tend to be the ones that are degrading upon discard and are widely distributed in the environment. And moving on to microlastics. Can you define microlastics and describe potential mechanisms by which they can enter the human body? >> So microplastics as it name tends to imply are size related compounds, not just chemical composition, but it's these kinds of plastics that I just mentioned, but they're much smaller in size. So they are irregularly shaped small compounds that are smaller than 5 mm in diameter and they can go all the way down to nano range which is less than 0.1 microns that can enter the body through inhalation or ingestion. So there tend to be the same kind of chemical composition as some of the larger plastics that may not always be of concern but they're tiny so they can actually reach tissues very easily. Your article mentions that the surface area of microplastics can act as a vehicle for contaminants. Can you discuss how microplastics bind these contaminants and which contaminants are most commonly associated with microplastics? >> Sure. So they have a rather unique surface area. They're very coarse heterogeneous materials. So they can act as a vehicle for other compounds. And it's the 10 groups that I mentioned of most concern are the small microplastics of things like these POSES and polyethylene polyropylene. They're very coarse. Therefore, they have a bigger surface area than you might expect for a small compound, allowing other compounds to glom onto them, including say polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, which are the carcinogens in combustive material like cigarette smoke, diesel, and other fossil fuels. So, they can act as a vector for totally independent compounds that have their own health effects. A lot of organic chemists refer to this sometimes as a corona like a halo. So you can have a irregularly surfaced microplastic and then you can have this corona or halo of compounds around them that are say carcinogens or other chemical agents in the environment including heavy metals for that matter too. You know lead, arsenic, things like that. So, they're very robust little characters that can act as a vehicle for other toxins and themselves can be toxic. >> Your article discusses some specific examples of microplastics being detected in products that people commonly use, including beverages, cosmetics, and facial scrubs. Could you discuss this further? >> Yeah, at first it was surprising to me to see microplastics wind up in all of these common daily use items. So, I think they get there by two ways. One is if it's not part of the primary production process, primary formulation say of a facial cream, they can get there by the container those creams are put in that are soft plastics. That's why you might see reports of highly varying concentrations by different products because some of it might be engineered into the product, but not all of them. Some of them may be the vehicle that they're put in as a container. And so you have this very dynamic exposure potential. One is primary production like the fire retardants that those are plastics and they could become microplastics as they're put on to clothes or baby blankets to prevent fire or to coating of cooking pans in the kitchen. Others I think it may actually be the containers they're involved in because actually water of course should not have microplastics but if it's in a soft container and these compounds are hydrophobic so the material can leech off the soft container that they're in and then we drink the water we drink the compounds as well. >> And what techniques are currently used to detect microplastics and what are some potential limitations of these detection methods? >> So detection methods have to get better. It's actually a bit of a challenge. Most of them use some kind of spectroscopy. There are newer forms of mass spectroscopy. All of us were exposed to some of that in basic chemistry. The newer instruments are much more sensitive and can be modified to pick up very very small amounts of very very small particles like polystyrene particles. Most of them have been validated, but there are still technical limitations to some of the exposure assessment using material safe from complex biological samples when you're trying to detect the microplastics in those samples. So, there are still some challenges, but most of the articles of recent years are using some kind of sensitive mass spectroscopy. Moving on to human tissues. Your article describes that microplastics have been detected in many organs and tissues throughout the body including the lungs, brain, blood, liver, kidneys, heart, colon, testes, ovarian, follicular fluid, placenta, human breast milk, and infants for stools. What do studies tell us about the levels of microplastics detected in human tissues over the past several decades? That's another good question because we don't have measurements from decades ago. Although I expect to see more studies come out using archived material that might help answer that more precisely. That is if investigators has stored mcconium or infant stool over say several decades we could go back thaw them out and answer some of that. Right now we don't have a good sense I think of trending like that in detailed studies. We have a lot of cross-sectional studies, so-called cross-sectional studies. So, tissues harvested, looked at, and reported. But I do expect bioanks and archived materials, if they've been there for a long time, will probably shed more light. That data we do have from limited longitudinal studies suggest that it is increasing as expected in animal and human tissues over time. that is microplastics are increasing in concentrations in various organs and fluids and tissues within the body. But I think a lot to be answered are some tissues preferentially taken up versus others. So it's one thing to say it's everywhere. There's another thing to say is there preferential deposition or there preferential effects. I think we just don't know enough about that right now. >> Just because microplastics are detected in human tissues and organs does not necessarily mean they're causing harm. Can you discuss observational study data about the known and potential health effects associated with microplastics in humans? >> Knowledge about this is quite incomplete and it's in a infantile stage. We have a few studies of workers who have been exposed to high levels of this with some adverse respiratory effects that couple of really good studies in the last 12 24 months in the New England Journal of Medicine showed that individuals with corateed artery plaque arterial plaque those with higher concentrations of microplastics as detected on mass spectroscopy were something like four and a half times more likely to have a mioardial inffection, stroke or death from any corals with 34 months of follow-up from the measurements. So relatively short term but not that bad. It's almost 3 years. There was a recent study in Nature Medicine of microplastics in brain autopsy. There seem to be higher concentrations in brain tissue than individuals with dementia. But again, I would say we're really at the very beginning to understand the human health effects of these compounds because because as you said, the presence of them alone does not prove causation of disease and the measurements are basically exposure measurements, biomarkers of exposure and then associate with disease. >> For potential health benefits and certainly environmental reasons, it is important to focus on decreasing plastic production. Can you briefly discuss current and upcoming policies and agreements aimed to reduce plastic pollution worldwide? >> One that I point out in the article, I think it was relatively groundbreaking was in 2019 at Basil Convention on plastic waste with transboundary movements of plastic being the focus production. If we can minimize plastic use and production or move move in the right direction towards decreasing rather than increasing the use of plastics in general, we will decrease microlastic exposure because larger plastics get broken down into smaller plastics once they're discarded. And so decrease of plastic use in general is necessary to decrease microlastic exposure. Secondly, since plastics are going to be around, even if we try to have source reduction, recycling needs to be improved and much more innovation in recycling of all plastics to prevent them from winding up in the environment and undergoing transformation into the microlastics. There is a United Nations global plastic treaty that was signed in 2022 I believe after a resolution to develop an internationally legally binding agreement was proposed. As you know policies come and go depending on political environment and the countries that needed to take the lead on this or did take the lead on this include the US and other larger blocks of countries and like the European Union. Right now, I think policy-wise, we're facing challenges here with backing away from such international agreements. But long term, it's going to take international cooperation on many levels to really reduce plastic use and plastic pollution in the environment. >> Before closing, is there anything we didn't discuss in this podcast that you'd like to mention? >> For the sake of some of our younger listeners in field of health and medicine, don't get discouraged. It's not like this is the end of the world. These are fixable problems. They're serious problems as are air pollution and climate change, but they are fixable. They're created by humans. They should be fixable by humans and with innovation and with good programs that can produce a better world with better jobs. But I think it can sound very discouraging. And it can be very scary to realize as we speak what our bodies are containing, the environment that's incorporated in our bodies. But I think we can do something about this. >> Thank you so much for sharing your thoughts with us about this interesting and important topic. I'm Dr. Kristen Walter and I've been speaking with Dr. David Christristiani from the Harvard Thchan School of Public Health in Boston. You can find a link to this article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stephins at the JAMAMA Network. To follow this and other Jamma Network podcasts, please visit us online at jammanetworkaudio.com or search for Jamma Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.