[ Music ] >> The JAMA Network. [ Silence ] >> My name's Harlan Krumholz. I'm a cardiologist at Yale-New Haven Hospital. I'm the Harold H. Hines Professor of Medicine and Director of the Yale-New Haven Hospital Center for Outcomes Research and Evaluation. We live in one of the most dynamic periods of health care. The policies are changing so much in Medicare and in medical care is different than it was even a decade ago. Every doctor feels it. Every nurse feels it. Everyone who's involved in the health care system. And amid all these changes, we have to take a moment to evaluate exactly what's going on, what's the end result of what's being achieved? There's a possibility that there been unintended adverse consequences. There's a possibility that all of our investments in trying to improve health, modify behaviors, institute positive policies that will promote health, and improve the quality of health care have actually paid dividends, but the only way to know is by careful and rigorous evaluation of exactly what's been achieved. So we did that. We thought it would be good to take a look for 1999, the late '90s when these efforts and changes began, to really accelerate to 2013, the last date when we had full data, and to focus specifically on the Medicare population. We studied almost 70 million people who had been in Medicare during that time. We looked at Medicare Advantage and we looked at Medicare Fee-for-Service. We combined them and we tried to understand whether there had been trends in the overall annual mortality rates. And then because of data availability, we focused specifically on the fee-for-service population to understand hospitalizations and hospital outcomes. We've seen is from 1999 to 2013 amazing changes and improvements in all of the areas that we looked at. And what we found was that there was almost a 20% decline in the annual mortality rate for Medicare beneficiaries during that time. This change was paralleled in Medicare Advantage and in Medicare Fee-for-Service. For every 100,000 beneficiaries, there were 10,000 fewer hospitalizations. Among the fewer patients being hospitalized, the chance of dying in the 30 days after the hospitalization again dropped dramatically during this period. Number of days in the hospital for people in the last six months of their life again declining. We're doing better at keeping people out of the hospital in those last six months of their life. The improvements that we observed were extraordinarily broad-based. We looked at various different subgroups. We looked by age, we looked by sex, we looked by race. And there was evidence of these improvements everywhere. There still remains some disparities between blacks and whites, but both groups experienced this dramatic improvement. It looked like this is almost experienced uniformly across the country. This report suggests that we're in the midst of remarkable improvement in health and health care. This is probably a result of changes in behaviors, technology, systems, our approach to work on teams and to try to improve quality. It goes to the public, too, who have been paying attention to health care messages. We need to keep going. In fact, we need to keep doing those studies that are finding problems. We need to keep looking for areas where there are improvement. This should actually stimulate us to redouble our efforts and continue this trend line and we need to keep thinking of even better ways to accelerate this race towards making things better for Medicare beneficiaries, for the American public, to continue to elevate health and health care, and not rest until we continue to see us achieve the best care and the best health possible. [ Music ]