>> Hello, and welcome to this author interview. This is conversations with Dr. Bauchner, Editor in Chief of JAMA. This is Howard Bauchner. I'm here with Mitch Katz, who's the President and Chief Executive Officer of New York Health and Hospitals, the largest municipal health system in the United States, 11 acute care hospitals, five skilled nursing homes, and dozens of community health centers. And I would say I've known Mitch now for close to ten years. He's on the editorial board of JAMA Internal Medicine. And he is without doubt one of the single most compassionate physicians I've ever known in my life. Welcome, Mitch. >> Thank you, Howard, that's very thoughtful of you to say. I appreciate it. >> So for people who are unaware of Mitch's past, he's worked in San Francisco and LA. And his focus there largely was on resolving issues around the homeless. And he's probably done more in this country to help resolve some of the issues around housing and care for the homeless than any other individual. But almost two years ago to this date, Mitch became CEO, Chief Executive Officer of New York Health and Hospitals. Mitch, what's the last two weeks been like? Last three weeks? >> Horrific. So if you search for the right metaphor to try to explain something you've never lived through, something that is worse than anything you could have possibly imagined. For our 11 hospitals in New York City, the public hospitals, we have 950 people currently intubated with COVID-19. We have almost 3,000 patients in the hospital with COVID-19. That's not counting all of the people we've already discharged, the people who we've send out. I mean, when you consider our usual census as a system would be about 3,500. So now all of our hospitals are filled with people with COVID. And it's just been so devastating for the staff, the doctors, the nurses, the respiratory therapists working on the frontline. >> There was so much conversations two and three weeks ago about ventilator shortages. And, you know, there's the private system and the public system. Obviously, the public system takes care of so many low income and underrepresented minorities. There was just tremendous concern about people would they get access to the care that they deserved and needed. Has there been an issue of ventilator shortage in your hospitals? >> No. We haven't had that problem. We did worry that we were going to have the problem, because several of the models showed that New York City would need more than 20,000 ventilators at its peak. And there weren't, even if the national cache was sent entirely to New York City, best estimates that the national cache had 11,000 ventilators. So even if every single ventilator was sent to New York City it wasn't clear how we were going to make that 20,000. Fortunately, those models seem to have been wrong. And for reasons that are not well understood, and maybe someday we'll learn a lot about this disease from why the models were wrong, but we do seem to have plateaued. We're not have a major increases anymore in the number of people being ventilated. >> It is interesting. We've had a number of the models proposed for publication in JAMA we refused to publish any of them. In part because we couldn't really choose between them. And then secondly, we've received a fair number of, I would say, stinging opinion pieces about these models. And even the more sophisticated ones within a week or two seem to be wrong as much as they're right. Or at least the confidence that you can have in them is not very high. On one hand, I know we need them. But on the other hand, I think it's increasingly uncomfortable to know how inaccurate they could be. >> I totally agreed. And I've been on both sides of that discussion. >> Yeah. >> Because in the city where I work closely with the mayor about the whole city's response, people love my numbers because I can tell you at this moment there are 950 people on a ventilator. That's very exact. The problem is that that doesn't tell you how many people are going to be on a ventilator in two weeks. Right? That's where you need the model, right? I can, my number is certain, but it's today. How do you, what you want to know when you're planning is what two weeks from now is. My number is not very helpful on that. But the models themselves turned out to be wrong, at least for New York City. >> Well, they've been wrong in the right direction. So I'm really pleased -- >> Yes. >> -- to hear that. Can you talk a little bit about PPE? You and I talked about it before we started. That's been -- So ventilators, PPE, and testing, those are the big three items I want to go through. And then some of the more human issues that I think have surfaced. But could you talk a little bit about PPE? >> Well, PPE has been an issue throughout this crisis, for all the reasons you know so well. The fact that we are learning about this virus. So, lots of differences of opinion about exactly how the virus is transmitted. And therefore, what the appropriate level of PPE should be. Then, huge national shortages, which have shown us how vulnerable the US is, right? We think of ourselves as the richest country. But it turns out that we import a lot of our medical equipment. And so then, all of a sudden, when the commercial market drops out and you cannot buy things -- And we did see the crisis like everyone else. We put in orders in January when we saw what had gone on in Wuhan, right? We wanted to make sure that we wouldn't be in the same place. So we put in very large orders. We weren't worried about money. We were worried only about protecting our healthcare workers. But those orders were never fulfilled. All of those supply lines collapsed because of the worldwide need for protective equipment. So national shortage. And then the way I feel those two issues work together in a negative way is that we have tell people, for example, we would like you to reuse your N95 mask. Unless it gets soiled or wet. Of all the pieces of protective equipment, the N95 is the most important. Because we know that that's how the virus enters the body, through the mouth, through the nose. Right? You obviously you don't want it on your clothes. You don't want it on your head. You don't want it on your shoes. But it's easier to see how you would, you know, go home, take off your clothes before going into the house, shower, new clothes. But you really want to protect your nose and mouth, right? So in the old days, which were just a few months ago, a healthcare worker in my system who needed an N95 would put an N95 on, go into the patient room, go out of the patient room, throw away the mask. That's what we taught people. That is what we taught them is the correct way to use a mask. Now when you suddenly say to them, well, actually it's okay to use the mask all day long, and even for up to five days so long as it doesn't get wet or splattered. Is it any wonder that people are thinking, wait a minute, if that was the case then why didn't you tell me that three months ago. Why did you tell me three months ago it was really important to keep putting on a new mask? And so then people think, oh, wait a minute, the reason you're telling me this is because you don't have enough. And so now it becomes so you're not protecting me in the best way possible. And so, I mean, what we've tried to say to both be honest and yet not create fear is we're providing masks and other PPE under crisis conditions. We're providing them not in the way that we would ideally provide them, if we had as many. But we're not asking people to go into see a COVID-19 patients without N95 masks. And if someone wants one we give them one. >> Has the sense of shortage around PPE gotten better the last few days, or the last week or ten days, or still a struggle? >> Still a struggle. In part because the categories of people that are being given PPE is getting broader and broader. So, for example, one of the people abdicating for more PPE said to me, at another hospital the parking attendant had an N95 Mask. And I'm thinking is that a good thing? Is that a bad thing? It's very hard to say, right? A parking attendant is interacting with patients coming to the hospital. They're rolling down their window. You're looking into the car. Are those people coming to the hospital have likely other people who've been exposed? So on one hand, I say yes. On the other hand, I say, well, I can't run out of N95 masks for my nurses or my doctors if we're giving them to parking attendants. So I think what's transpired is, well, they have been more our, what we call burn rate keeps going up as we broaden the number of people who are wearing them. >> Testing has been a great challenge. Some would call it the great tragedy of what's happened in United States. And for me, testing isn'T3 days later, it's three hours later. What's the status of testing across your 11 hospitals and community health centers? >> It's improved. But it's still totally inadequate. We now can do rapid testing. So at least we're capable at all out hospitals for patients who are in the hospital with us we can do a test and have a result in three hours. So that helps us to be sure that we really are talking about someone with COVID-19, and not someone with a regular bacterial pneumonia or pulmonary edema. So that's helped. But really, for the public health purposes, we would need hundreds of thousands of more tests to try to figure out who really has the virus, who doesn't have the virus. I do put in some hope that antibody testing will help us. One of the big weakness, besides of the inadequacy of the nasopharyngeal cultures, is okay, so you're negative today, what does that mean about tomorrow, right? If I test you today and you're negative, and then you go back to your residence with multigenerational families in a low income area in Queens does that prove that you'll be negative tomorrow? So at least if we could try to figure out who has already been exposed to the virus, that I think that would help us tremendously. >> Now I know you're not an intensivist, but I'm sure you're well aware of the debate, the national and international debate, about various treatments, of which chloroquine clearly has risen to the top. You probably have the largest number of patients who are hospitalized as anyone in the United States. How is that playing out in terms of treatment? That many different types of treatments have been advocated? >> Sure. Well, I think one of the good things to do in a crisis is to go back to your core principles. So even though I'm a practicing doctor, as an administrator I don't dictate medical practice. I feel very strongly about that. That doctors have to make the best decisions for their patients. And so we give protocols, and we say, hey, there is no approved treatment right now for COVID-19, but here are other treatments that people are using. And that includes hydroxychloroquine. So we don't tell people to do it. We don't tell people not to do it. I think the bulk of my doctors are doing. >> You do. >> Yes. In, I think in the spirit of this is what we have to offer right now. I know there are justifiable concerns about cardo toxicity. And again, that's why I'll go back and say, I don't dictate what good doctors do. I ask them to use their judgment. >> I think you know, a few weeks ago we had a viewpoint about post hospital care, skilled nursing homes, nursing homes, which have become a huge issue, particularly in certain cities, have you begun to struggle with where you can send patients after they're recovering? >> Sure. We think in the end it's going to be hotel rooms in New York City. Of course, the hotel industry has almost, like, collapsed. Nobody is coming for travel for pleasure or for works to New York City at the current time. So supply of hotel rooms is large. And we think that hotel rooms will work great to minimize the risk of transmission. If people in the convalescing period it's likely that they're less infectious, but as you know it is hard to know for sure exactly when someone stops being ill. And we think that hotels will provide us enough space. There are not that many empty nursing home rooms available. But I, we think that if we change the format of some hotels, we take over a room on each floor, we put some, you know, nursing staff and community health workers that we'll send people to those places. >> The infectious rate among healthcare workers. You know, I have said repeatedly in some the live streams, we can increase double or triple the number of intensive care unit beds, but if we don't have healthcare workers it will make no difference. How are you doing with the infectious disease complication rates for healthcare workers? >> So hard to tell. In part because certain people are quarantined based on prior exposures, or based on the fact that they have symptoms. But because they don't have shortness of breath, they haven't been tested. Large numbers of people have been calling out sick, about twice the usual rate. But a lot of it is also very understandable fear. People not only fear for their own lives, they fear for bringing home the illness to children, to parents, to spouses. So we're definitely suffering from a large number of people missing in action. The good thing has been we've had a certain number of people come back who were infected and got better. And that's a big sort of push to people's enthusiasm for the disease. And to see their coworkers come back and really want to fight against the virus. So that makes a big difference. But it's a very, it's a very fluid, difficult situation right now. >> Now because you run health and hospitals, you have an incredible responsibility around prisoners and homeless. And can you say how your agency has interacted with both the prisons, which have become a real problem in certain cities, Chicago, for example -- >> Yes. >> -- as well as homeless? How have you interacted with those two populations? >> Well, on the incarcerated, so we run the healthcare services on Rikers Island. And fortunately the city had been through criminal justice reform trying to move more and more people out of Rikers anyway. In fact, there's a movement to close Rikers, which was making a lot of progress. So Rikers right now is at a historic low of census. And so what we've done is to spread people out over areas that we once closed. So that we can try to keep people apart as much as possible. We've also done many more compassionate release than ever before. Around the homeless, we are trying to decrease the number of people in congregate shelters. And there, too, we're being helped by the plethora hotel rooms that are available. We're trying to move people out of congregate shelters and into hotel rooms, because we're worried about having the kinds of outbreaks in jail or at homeless shelters that have been that seen elsewhere. >> Now the data from the US looked largely like the data in the rest of the world. You know, the high risk groups are older, particularly those with hypertension. Male a little more than females. I'm a pediatrician, you know that. Children have largely been spared, both either the disease and/or consequences of the disease. It's still one of the great unknowns, 'cause they're not spared influenza. So this is very -- >> Right. >> -- unique. Obviously, there are deaths among people in their 30s, 40s and 50s. But the new data that's emerged in the United States specifically, has been around race and ethnicity. With African-Americans clearly having a higher rate of disease and mortality. Can you -- How do you think about that? >> Sure. Well, wouldn't be surprising to me or to you given the work we've done previously on disparities that we would see it here. In New York City it's actually Latinos who are the highest risk. And then African-Americans. But to me it's so easy to understand, because the map [phonetic] tracks with asthma. Which is probably the disease with the strongest social determinants, for all the reasons we know, including that the quality of air in low-income people is usually worse because that's where the trucks are routed, and the highways are routed. So you're talking about people who have higher rates. The people who are low income. People who are black and brown. Have higher rates of asthma, higher rates of diabetes, high rates of hypertension, higher rates of smoking to start with. And those are all the bad risk factors for COVID-19. So then you add to that that low-income people, especially in a city like New York City, live in very small quarters with multigenerational families, because rent is so expensive. So when we say shelter-in-place to someone on the upper west side that may be a three-bedroom apartment. And there are two people. And in Queens around Elmhurst, the hospital that's been the hardest hit, that might be 12 people living in a two-room apartment. So even when people are sheltering at home, it isn't the same. And then I'll add one more, which I think is particularly unfair, among the better off people I know they're mostly at home on their Zoom meetings, right? The low income people who we take care of their the food handlers, their the transit workers. So their work has been labeled essential. And they are sent out of their shelter in order to stock the shelves for all of us so that we have food to eat, so that the trains run, so that healthcare workers can get to work. So I think that there's even a differential by income on who can stay sheltered in place, and who has to go out in the world and work. >> Now if I asked you, you started with the numbers, 3,000 patients are in the hospital, 950 were intubated. What would those numbers have looked like a week ago? >> So a week -- Well, I mean, of course, the really interesting part is two months ago they would've both been zero. >> Right. >> Right? Like, how do we do that? Like, how did we go -- Like, we used to think we have full hospitals, like, how did we go to suddenly be able to triple the size of our ICUs? So in terms of overall, I would say the plateau that I've seen is about four or five days. So if we have 950 intubated a week ago we had about 870. It's, sort of, creeping up. But there were times when each day I saw 50 more people on a ventilator than the day before in terms of the numbers. And the census similarly, I think last week would've been about 2,500. So we're definitely on the plateau. But the plateau is hard. So for public health people, plateau deservingly is success. For healthcare workers plateau means this isn't ending, right? We keep coming in and there are all these patients for us to take care. And people are really stretched. And so that, we've plateau is great news for the success of shelter-at-home, and for what social distancing has done, but so hard for our healthcare workers. >> Mitch, you have a large budget. And there's been a lot of money made available in different ways. I can't even figure it all out. I'm sure you have financial people who are helping you figure it out. Do you worry about the finances? Or just not what you're focused on now? >> Not now. Our task at this point is to save life. And every time someone said to me, should we buy this protective equipment or these ventilators, they're way more expensive than we would normally pay, I say yes. And we're currently -- We turned the Billie Jean King Tennis Center that maybe people have watched great matches, it is now a field hospital. That's an investment that will be of no use in the future, right? When this goes away, we'll take it down, right. But we spent tens of millions of dollars to do that, because right now this is a crisis, and we need to take care of people. When it's all over, then we'll have to figure out the hard questions that you're asking. And it will be not just our loss of money, but it will be in the context of an economy where so many people are unemployed. >> Just a couple questions have come through. When do you let healthcare workers come back to work? The CDCs had very interesting language about this. >> So we're still doing seven days from the onset of symptoms plus three days no fever, off Tylenol. But that does assume you're asymptomatic. >> Right. >> If it's seven days you're coughing, you can't come back. >> Okay. >> So you have to be asymptomatic. It has to be at least seven days from your diagnosis. And you have to have three days no fever. And you're not doing that with testing or without testing? You're just having them come back? >> We had so poor access to testing, right? And our message has been specifically around asymptomatics. If you're asymptomatic then you don't necessarily need to test. So that's definitely complicated things. More recently we've mostly been able to test people. We are not doing the swabs to prove that people are not contagious. In part because I'm sure you saw now there are questions whether or not the RNA test can still be positive even though the virus is not viable in your -- >> -- nose any longer. Couple financial questions. I had asked you one. I'm assuming you're maintaining salaries for nurses, physicians, all of your staff? >> Oh, yes, absolutely. And we're trying to figure out how to, you know, give people bonuses for their hard work. >> So Mitch, there will be an end at some point. I -- >> Promise? >> Yeah, I do promise. You deserve it. How do you put health and hospitals, how do you put 11 hospitals and community health centers back together? >> I have no idea. But I really look forward to having that as my question, right? I have to say that I get up every day, Howard, and I wonder how we're going to get through another day. How, right, people are so stretched. Nurses taking care of six ICU patients at the same time. You know, having one intensivist going from, you know, patient to patients. It's been so difficult. I mean, people are heroes. They are saving people's lives. And, you know, to the extent we get people to focus, okay, your goal is oxygenation, that's your goal. That's all we're doing right now. We're, there are lots of useful things to do for hospitalized patients, we're not doing any of them except oxygenation. But people are not taking care patients the way they were taught, right? This is not how we were taught, to only focus on oxygenation. We're taught to look at the whole patient and think about the family, to think about the context, to think about preventing other diseases, right? And so we're now having people really just do oxygenation. And they're tired. They're traumatized from the number of deaths they've seen. I think the, I very much support the efforts of our hospitals and other hospitals to celebrate people coming off the vents. Because I think the best way to keep your healthcare force engaged is to remind them they're heroes. They're saving life. I mean, it's not in, you know, I'm an adult primary care doctor, and I like to think that I've saved some lives. But probably over 30 years, right? If I've controlled somebody's blood pressure for 30 years I've probably saved some lives. Here people are, like, saving lives in the moment. And I think connecting them to that amazing thing is the only way we're going to get through this. >> Two last questions. Quite a bit has been written and talked about how because of the need to protect healthcare workers, the entire way in which people die in an intensive care unit, or in the hospital, but let's focus in the intensive care unit, is just fundamentally different. You know, the support of families may not be as present as it has been in the past. People are gowned, which just creates this tremendous distance between someone who is dying. How will you handle that in your intensive care units? >> Oh, it's horrible, Howard. People are dying alone. I can't imagine anything worse. And I don't see, although I, part of it is to protect the healthcare worker, the greater part is that is if we allow visitors, and none of the hospitals are allowing visitors, then they're going to go home to their communities having been exposed to the virus. And so, I mean, it has to, we have to maintain this in order to protect the rest of the community. The healthcare worker in the room, at least, is already wearing the N95 mask, and is protected against transmission. But it we were allowing family members all through the hospitals, they would all return to their communities exposed to COVID-19. And I think that it would further propel the epidemic. What we are doing, which I think is a very poor substitute but is thoughtful, is we had received gifts of iPads that are web-enabled. And we've had volunteers willing to come and for our patients who are alert at least being able to call their family members. But I can't imagine anything worse than dying alone. >> The last question Mitch, is so you, when you wake up every morning what's the first hour or two look like for you? >> Oh, first thing is figuring out how many people have, are in each bed in our hospital. We've had to do, for exactly the reasons that you explained about disparities, my Queens hospitals have been hit really, really hard. They're in a large area of Queens where there are very few hospitals. A lot of multi-general, multigenerational families living in tight quarters. So what we've focused on is that when I get up what I do is I immediately look at the census, both the ventilated patient census and the hospital census to try to figure out how we're going to rebalance to get through the day. >> And do you move patients around if -- >> We move patients. We've moved hundreds of patients. >> Okay. >> One of my doctors, that's his whole job. >> And then the second question is, right before you go to bed what you do, Mitch? >> I do the same thing. I try to look at where we are at the end of the day, and make sure we're going to get through the rest of the night with enough equipment and with as balanced a load as possible. And we've done transfers at 2 and 3 AM, because we became convinced that it just wasn't safe to have that number of intubated patients in the emergency room. >> This is Howard Bauchner, Editor in Chief of JAMA. This has been Conversations with Dr. Bauchner. I've been talking to Mitch Katz, a friend. He's President and Chief Executive Officer of New York Hospitals, Health and Hospitals, 11 acute care hospitals, five skilled nursing facilities, dozens of community health centers. Mitch, I can't imagine a more compassionate physician to be in your position at this time. >> Thank you, Howard, I really appreciate your friendship and support. >> Stay healthy. >> Thank you, you too.