[ Music ] >> The JAMA network. [ Silence ] >> Hello. I'm Dale Gerding. I'm a professor of medicine at Loyola University, Chicago. And I'm a research physician at the Hines VA Hospital in Chicago. I'm going to tell you a little bit about a Phase 2 trial of the use of nontoxigenic strain M3 to prevent recurrence in patients who already have C difficile infection. The study design was a Phase 2, prospective, randomized, doubleblind trial of nontoxigenic strain M3 compared to placebo using 3 different doses of the nontoxigenic strain. Studies were conducted in 44 sites in the United States, Europe, and Canada. The enrollment total was 168 evaluable patients, approximately 40 in each of the arms of the study. We did 2 different dosing lengths as well, giving it for 7 days or 14 days. So all the patients in the study were treated with either metronidazole or vancomycin or both drugs, anywhere from 10 to 21 days, and obtained a resolution of their diarrhea for at least 2 days by the end of their treatment period. At that point, they were randomized to receive 1 of the 3 doses of nontoxigenic C diff which was given as a liquid formulation or a placebo. The patients were then evaluated over the next 6 weeks to determine the rate of recurrence and the rate of colonization by the nontoxigenic strain. They were, in addition, followed out to 6 months to determine duration of colonization by nontoxigenic C diff and to look for any longterm adverse events. The results of the study showed that nontoxigenic strain M3 was safe. The colonization of the GI tract by nontoxigenic strain M3 occurred at about 70 percent of the patients who were given the spores of nontoxigenic C diff. The recurrence rate in the C diff patients was 30 percent in the placebo group. And for all patients who received any dose of nontoxigenic strain M3, the recurrence rate was 11 percent. This was highly, statistically significant. The best dose regimen turned out to be 10 to the 7 spores of nontoxigenic C diff given for just 7 days which had a recurrence rate of 5 percent, also highly, statistically significant compared to the placebo regimen. For patients who became colonized with nontoxigenic C diff, the recurrence rate was the lowest. It was only 2 percent in those patients. Patients who did not become colonized but received nontoxigenic strain M3 had recurrence rates that were comparable to placebos. Their recurrence rate was about 31 percent compared to 30 percent in the placebo group. Colonization with the strain following its administration correlates with protection against recurrence. The data suggest that as the patient's normal bacterial compliment is recovering, eventually they will lose colonization with this nontoxigenic strain. And we think that's a good point because this means that they are not going to have a significant alteration of their microbiota permanently but, rather, temporary protective colonization. Future studies include a Phase 3 trial which is still in the planning stages for reduced recurrence of C diff in a larger population using the best dose that we've arrived at so far and studies to prevent C difficile with a primary protective protocol. That means we could give the strain to patients who are just taking antibiotics to see if we can colonize them and, as a result, protect them against C difficile infection in the first place. I think we're going to come up with new novel strains of bacteria therapy or bio therapeutics that will really help us to prevent some of the unintended consequences of antibiotic therapy. [ Silence ] [ Music ]