>> Our patient is shown here in the preoperative area at her first visit just prior to her exam under anesthesia. We attempted to assess her ability to fix and follow by moving a marking pen in front of her visual field. She demonstrated a questionable that was not sustained possibly due to lack of attention. She was noted to have a sporadic wandering nystagmus during presumed attempts at fixation on the object. From this examination under anesthesia, demonstrated advanced bilateral retinoblastoma. Group D in the right eye and group E in the left eye. A decision was made to deliver intravenous chemotherapy for retinoblastoma control. Again in the preoperative area prior to examination under anesthesia, approximately one month following the initial round of chemotherapy, the patient's visual acuity and level of nystagmus is assessed. Compared with the month prior, she demonstrates an improved ability to fix and follow. She also makes multiple attempts to grab the object of interest. Careful evaluation reveals diminished but not completely resolved nystagmus. From this examination that day revealed a regressing retinoblastoma in both eyes. She was treated with one session of subconjunctival carbo platinum in both eyes, and one session of transpupillary thermotherapy in the right eye. In addition to the second round of systemic chemotherapy. Approximately two months after her initial exam, our patient clearly shows the ability to fix and follow demonstrated by quickly and directly grabbing the bottle of dilating drops. Additionally, the nystagmus has completely resolved. From this examination reveals continued tumor regression. She received the full six cycles of systemic chemotherapy, three additional transpupillary thermotherapy treatments in the right eye, two additional subconjunctival carbo platinum injections in each eye, and two additional cryotherapy sessions in the left eye over the following year. This case demonstrates that with appropriate treatment of retinoblastoma, nystagmus can completely resolve as vision returns. This case is the first to provide video documentation of resolution of nystagmus following treatment. Her final visual acuity was 2100 in the right eye and 2200 in the left eye.