From the JAMAMA network, this is Jamma Odilarangology head and neck surgery author interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in Jamama Odilarangology Head and Neck Surgery. Hello and welcome to the Jamama Oto podcast. I'm Paul Bryson from Cleveland Clinic and your host. Today I'm joined by Dr. Alexander Churn, secondyear neurotology fellow at the John's Hopkins University and soon to be faculty member at the University of Pennsylvania later this year. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you, Paul. Thank you for having me today. Today we're going to talk about an article that you wrote with Dr. Gallib looking at over-the-counter hearing aids, specifically over-the-counter hearing aid enabled earbuds and the concept of merging hearing health and technology. So, uh, congratulations on this article. Thank you. Yeah, you know, um, over the past couple years, I think this has really started to, I think, enter the realm of the consumer when over-the-counter hearing aids became accessible. tell us a little bit about your background and how this article sort of came to be and what your hopes were for it. Yeah, so when I was in residencies training, I did my residency in New York Presbyterian Hospital which has combined Colombian wild Cornell. I did a lot of work with Dr. Justin Gallum using epidemiologic methods to look at the association of age related hearing loss and cognitive decline and dementia. A lot of this has really sparked my interest in looking at hearing loss from a public health perspective. And very recently, we learned, you know, obviously that the Apple's AirPods Pro 2 had a new software update that enabled its hearing aid functionality. And we thought this was obviously a potential huge impact, especially in the setting of the recent FDA approved over-the-counter hearing aids, which for a variety of reason has had fairly modest uptake and not as big of an effect as we thought. But we thought that the incorporation of this hearing aid functionality into a widely used consumer device, in this case, the AirPods Pro 2, would potentially have a significant impact on hearing health. a little background. You know, you said modest uptake. Do you have a sense? It hasn't been out for very long, but what has been the uptake? And are there any trends um in terms of overthe-c counter hearing aids that you're aware of? I don't know the exact data over the um pertaining to the uptake and I can't quote numbers for you but I think from an anecdotal perspective you know seeing patients in the clinic there are a lot fewer people that I would think who use over-the-c counter hearing aids who can certainly benefit from them. I think a lot of it is simply awareness. I still think that there's definitely stigma or perceived stigma amongst potential individuals with hearing loss that can potentially benefit from hearing aids. So for a variety of reason I think that's why um the effect has not been as strong as we thought it would be. So now as you look at these new um you know sort of pro2 pods have you taken them for a spin or can you share with the the listener you know what are some of the new attributes of this next generation? I have played around with the device. Users can simply just download the software from the app store and the software allows you to take a hearing test on your phone. Then if you want to listen to music, your Apple's AirPods Pro 2 can actually adjust sound amplification of whatever you're listening to based on that existing audio, which I think is super cool. There's also a built-in hearing aid functionality that's also FDA approved. So the AirPods Pro 2 can essentially serve as a over-the-c counter hearing aid. As we talk today about aiograms and specifically the sort of inhome hearing test with the AirPod, I understand we may have some listeners on the podcast today who are not odarangologists or ear nose and throat doctors. Could you provide just a simple description of what an aiogram entails? The results of a hearing test are usually shown on a graph called an aiogram. From this you can see the type, the degree and the configuration of a hearing loss. So the way an audiogram is displayed is that you can see your hearing threshold. So whether or not you can hear a tone across different frequencies. On the x-axis you display frequency from low pitches to high pitches. So from lower to higher frequencies. And then um in the y-axis you display hearing level in decibels. The lower your hearing thresholds are. So the lower the number the better your hearing is. I mean I think of the aiogram as really like the gold standard right for many things right and it's been something that's been with us for a long time something that we rely on right certainly as a neurotologist it's a source of truth right so how does this out of the box in your home hearing test through an iPod how similar is it to going into the booth what's that like in terms of how accurate it is I'm sure Apple probably has done some sort of internal validation process to make sure it's as accurate as possible. Um, I don't know if there are really any studies yet, seeing how accurate they are compared to audiograms externally, but it seems like from an anecdotal standpoint, I've talked to some friends who have tried it. You know, there are some news outlets that have published some information. It seems like it's pretty accurate and also pretty easy to use. One of the first lines in your paper is that hearing loss is like severely undertreated. It's true. And then you take a product that has like penetrated the marketplace to a much higher degree. What's your take on that? I think integrating a hearing aid functionality into a widely used consumer product has huge potential to really increase accessibility, reduce stigma, and potentially even encourage earlier intervention for hearing loss. These devices are widely accessible everywhere. And I think certainly a lot of people, they don't want to use hearing aids because they're afraid of what other people might think while they wear the hearing aids. Hearing aids are not cool necessarily in the same way that glasses are seen as like a fashion accessory. You know, there are people that wear glasses that don't even have vision loss. A lot of people, they don't want to wear hearing aids because perhaps they think that makes them seem old, etc. And I think this is part of the reason that there's a lot of reduced usage of hearing needs in general. You know, hearing loss is a very undertreated condition. Here we have a widely used consumer device that's first and foremost a music listening product that that a lot of people use, a lot of young people use. It's very userfriendly. It's very mainstream. And now we enable a hearing aid functionality software and and this could have huge impact. I mean, you have a device where people think is cool and now it doesn't seem so much as getting your hearing loss treated is kind of like a negative thing. It's just a positive thing. It's it's an enhancement in your life. It's just something that, you know, makes your life a little bit better. So, I think from this standpoint, it's going to do a lot in terms of accessibility, bringing hearing health into the mainstream. Yeah. It takes the barrier down. You're like, "Oh, I have to make an appointment to get an aiogram." Well, I take a little hearing test at home. And like you said, it remains to be seen how it compares to the gold standard, but you're right, like from an accessibility and like barrier standpoint, it kind of reduces the barrier, right? Because you're going to get the ear pod to listen to music or use for phone conversations. The hearing aid market is also like full of technology, pretty high-tech devices across a broad spectrum of hearing loss. Do you have a sense for the AirPod 2? How strong, how nuanced, how adjustable is the AirPod based on the data that you provided with your hearing? I think they're very good. I I don't know if they're there are no studies yet obviously, but I think people have told me they work fairly well. One downside to using this device, I think, is there's a certain battery life. If you turn on the hearing aid functionality, it loses battery life pretty quickly. So, it's not like a device that can completely replace a hearing aid. I think it would only be usable in select instances when you really need that amplification just for a short period of time, for several hours maybe. Would that include like music appreciation? Like, and there was a nice section in the article I' I'd draw the listener to, you know, about hearing loss and and music appreciation. Yeah. I know I think uh one of the biggest potential impacts of these types of devices are that they have a great potential to enhance music appreciation. Traditionally, hearing aids were actually primarily designed for speech clarity. From that, there are some limitations on how rich the music listening experience could be. Now, when you have a device that's originally designed for music listening, this changes everything because you have also hearing aid functionality that lets you test your hearing loss. So, if you do have some degree of hearing loss, this device will restore sound to, you know, whatever frequencies you have hearing loss in also be playing the music through something that is originally intended to be a music listening device. So, I think, you know, anecdotally, I've been told that the sound quality is outstanding for music listening. And I think certainly these devices could do a lot for improving the listening experience for music lovers who, you know, have a mild to moderate hearing loss. And it sounds like maybe the next steps are are actually just studying it in a little bit of a structured way to kind of find out like where it shines or where we think it will shine and how it even how it might change over time, right? You know, sometimes these AirPods are quite an investment for the consumer. So the the hope is that they'll keep them for a number of years. And so you wonder, does it adjust as maybe your hearing adjusts over time? If you think about it, compared to a traditional hearing aid, which can cost upwards of thousands of dollars, over-the-counter hearing aids are still relatively quite cheap compared to that. And if you purchase this device, the Apple AirPods Pro 2, it's about, I think, $200, $250. So, still relatively cheap even though it's I'm sure it's not a complete solution to be used as a hearing aid, but I think, you know, the hearing aid functionality can be somewhat useful for sure. It's nice to kind of see this take off in interesting ways. I think um when that legislation came out as well, people will go into their big box or their retailer or their warehouse club and now you'll be able to get an aiogram and consider a hearing aid. But this this feels even more mainstream than that. you know, no question about that. I think integrating hearing health into a widely used consumer product really just increases accessibility. Any take-home points? Anything that we should be, you know, keep our radars up for with this? I think the biggest takeaway from this is really how the potential of this device to really improve hearing healthcare accessibility everywhere. Really reducing stigma and I think encouraging earlier intervention for hearing loss. Hearing health care is not so mainstream the way that even for example vision care is or dental care. Certainly this device goes a long way towards um helping us solve that problem. Ultimately, in the future, I can imagine a situation where you have just these listening devices that are both great, uh, music listening tools, um, very discreet, very cool, if you will, that can also serve as, you know, hearing aids for individuals who have hearing loss and who may benefit from that. That's something I would be definitely very excited for in the future. Hopefully, one day that's that will be something that is accessible and appealing to a broad audience. Congratulations on your work and you know as you kind of approach the finish of your um fellowship and things we'll be excited to see what additions you you make to the literature and and maybe more things along along this technology and hearing loss line. Thank you Dr. Bryson and uh thank you all for having me today on this Jim Oto podcast. Um it was really an honor to be here today. It was great to have you today Alex. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins of the Jamama Network. A link to this article can be found in this episode's show notes. To follow this and other Jamma Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamamaetworkaudio.com. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.