The Ultrasound-Guided Peripheral Nerve Block Procedure uses an ultrasound probe sheathed in a sterile cover to identify the target nerve bundle or fascial plane and evaluate the proximity of blood vessels prior to injection of local anesthetic. In real time, the nerve block needle is visualized and guided to approach the target nerve or fascial plane. The local anesthetic is injected, and its spread is observed to ensure proper distribution. Prior to the procedure, the equipment is prepared, including the needles and syringes, local anesthetics, and supplies to maintain the sterility of the procedure. A timeout is performed, and the hip receiving the nerve block is clearly marked. The ultrasound is used to identify and mark the site of needle insertion. A skin wheal of local anesthetics may be applied to the needle puncture site. Then, an initial puncture of the skin may be performed to facilitate the insertion of the blunt nerve block needle. The ultrasound probe is placed over the target nerve bundle, or fascial plane, and the needle is inserted under ultrasound guidance. When the needle enters the field of view, its angle and trajectory are adjusted as needed to approach the target nerves efficiently and safely. An initial injection of saline, typically less than 5 milliliters, can open the fascial plane or hydro dissect the target nerve bundle from its surrounding connective tissue to facilitate the precise delivery of local anesthetic. The full dose of local anesthetic is administered slowly in 1 to 3 milliliter aliquots with ultrasound visualization to ensure it spreads along the targeted nerve bundle or fascial plane. When increased volumes are required for proper anatomical distribution, the anesthetic may be diluted with saline to achieve a larger volume while maintaining the same total dose of anesthetic. The effectiveness of the peripheral anesthetic block can be assessed within 15 to 20 minutes after injection. At the conclusion of the procedure, the type and the dosage of the anesthetics administered and the time of the nerve block procedure are documented in the medical record.