 Volunteers for this video demonstration do not necessarily reflect some of the challenges that may arise during clinical scanning, such as body size or patient's ability to lie flat or position themselves for proper examination. This is a guide for assessing the inferior vena cava for diameter and collapsibility using point of care ultrasound or POCUS. When a patient has volume overload, the IVC will be enlarged and will collapse less with inspiration than in a person who is uvelemic. The IVC collapsibility index is a ratio of the difference between the maximum, expiratory, and minimum, inspiratory IVC diameters divided by the maximum diameter expressed as a percentage. At a threshold of 50%, the IVC collapsibility index has a sensitivity of 82% and a specificity of 79% for volume overload. Position the patient's supine. Having the patient bend their knees can help relax the abdominal muscles for better image acquisition. The curvilinear or phased array probe on the abdomen presa is used. Place the probe in the subziphoid region just to the right of the patient's midline, with the probe's orientation marker pointing cephalad. Using the liver as an acoustic window, visualize the IVC as a longitudinal, anechoic, or black structure draining into the right atrium. The IVC walls are thinner and more dynamic compared to the thick, non-collapsing walls of the aorta, which sits to the patient's left. You may need to gently fan the probe to optimize the long axis view to ensure you capture the widest possible diameter of the vessel. There are two common methods for calculating the collapsibility index. First, you can capture still images of the IVC at its maximum during exhalation and its minimum during forced inhalation, such as asking the patient to sniff. Taking measurements in these two images will allow you to calculate the IVC collapsibility index. Second, using M mode and placing the cursor over the IVC two centimeters distal to the IVC and the right atrial junction, you can capture the IVC diameter during the respiratory cycle and while asking the patient to take a quick forced inhalation. Measurements can be taken of the IVC and calculations performed based on the image obtained. In this video, we are assessing the collapsibility of the inferior vena cava. The array probe with abdominal presets is placed on the right of the subzipoid space where the inferior vena cava enters the right atrium and has been found two centimeters distal to that junction. We are quantitatively assessing the caliber of the inferior vena cava at its maximum, which occurs at end expiration and its minimum, which occurs at end inspiration.