 and alfalfa. From the JAMA network, this is JAMA Psychiatry Author Interviews, conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in JAMA Psychiatry. Hello, and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to the JAMA Psychiatry Author Interview podcast. I'm your host and web editor, Dr. John Torres. Today, I'm thrilled to be discussing a new paper just out in JAMA Psychiatry, predicting adolescent response to school-based mindfulness and machine learning analysis of the Myriad Trial. We're about to speak with a corresponding author, Christian A. Webb, PhD, in the Department of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School in McLean Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. We know that mental health prevention and early interventions can make a huge difference for youth mental health. As various school-based mental health programs have gained popularity, the question of which ones actually work and for whom has attracted more attention. Perhaps machine learning can help us match the right student to the right program. To learn more about this, we're about to talk about a brand new paper just published in JAMA Psychiatry on this very topic. Thank you so much, Dr. Webb, for joining us. To jump right in, we know that rates of mental health issues, especially depression, are rising for young people. So prevention makes sense. We want to catch this early. What do we know about school-based mental health prevention? Well, thanks for having me. So schools are an attractive setting for prevention because you can reach a really large and representative population of young people, including those who might never access mental health care. So there's been a lot of interest over the past couple decades or so in developing and testing school-based depression prevention programs. These programs are often focused on cognitive behavioral skills or mindfulness skills. But overall, if you look at all the studies, the evidence is fairly mixed. So there's some programs that show benefits on reducing depression risk and improving mental health in young people. But there's pretty variable findings across studies, and often you see pretty modest effects. And let's focus on one of these programs that's important for understanding your paper on school-based mindfulness training. And this was the Myriad program that, again, is pretty large. So maybe you can tell us about what is this Myriad trial or study? So maybe I'll just start with school-based mindfulness training first, and then I'll go into the Myriad study, which is a specific instance of that. So school-based mindfulness training typically involves teaching students basic skills, like paying attention to present moment experience, which includes thoughts and emotions that are happening in the moment without being controlled by them or being overly reactive to them or judging them as good or bad, and then practicing brief mindfulness exercises to train those skills. And in the Myriad trial, which was led by Willem Keichen and his colleagues, the mindfulness was delivered in schools by teachers during the regular school day. This is a very large trial, including 84 schools in the UK, over 8,000 students who were aged 11 to 14. And this study, schools were randomized to receive the mindfulness program versus not at just keeping their existing social-emotional learning curriculum. But the bottom line is the main findings from the Myriad trial was that there was no group differences. Adding mindfulness training to the schools didn't improve mental health outcomes for students. Interesting. Because intuitively, you would think this is a good idea. It makes sense. It's going to help people. But you're saying this large study showed on average across the population, there wasn't a difference. Is that correct? And if we think about that, you and your team took a new approach to this study and this data set in this paper around school-based mindfulness training. So what were you guys doing that was a little bit different or trying to learn that we're going to talk about in the study? First, I want to thank Dr. Keichen and his colleagues for giving us access to this data set. But what we did in our approach is that we shifted the question from, does this work on average, which is what the main Myriad trial was designed to test, to asking, okay, could we identify subgroups of students in that larger population who benefit more from the intervention and subgroups who don't or even might get worse from mindfulness training? So to do that, we used some machine learning approaches applied to a pretty rich set of baseline student and school level characteristics. And individually, each of these characteristics might only carry a small amount of information about who might benefit from mindfulness training, but machine learning methods are well suited for a few things. And one of them is to combine many weak signals to try to get to subgroups. And the goal was to test whether these data-driven approaches could meaningfully separate students into subgroups in the way that would support potential recommendations for mindfulness training. That is, can we use baseline characteristics to decide who is more likely to benefit from mindfulness training? And so a very practical application, because you said, even if it doesn't work on the population average, as you said, some people it's going to be very helpful for, and you're saying we could perhaps bring machine learning to find those groups of people. That's the goal. And you briefly alluded that we're going to be using some machine learning to kind of try to find these subgroups of who responds. We don't have to go too technically, but why do you think machine learning is the right approach to make sense of these signals? So we use two different machine learning approaches. One's called causal forest, and the other one's called elastic net regression. And without getting too technical, elastic net is kind of like an entry-level machine learning approach. It's fairly simple variant of conventional regression, but it's quite interpretable. Meaning, so one criticism of machine learning approaches is, okay, they might be good at prediction, and our goal is trying to predict which teams are going to benefit from mindfulness training. But they're kind of a black box. So sometimes what's driving that prediction? And so elastic net basically provides some more straightforward, interpretable results about what characteristics of the student or the school might be driving better outcomes. Causal forest is kind of on the more complex end of things. So it's capable of doing things that are more difficult for elastic net, like detecting nonlinear associations and higher order interactions between variables that might underlie prediction of response to mindfulness. It has some other nice features. But bottom line, we compared a simpler, more interpretable approach with a more complex approach with more bells and whistles. In the end, there wasn't much difference between the two and the results in this data set, at least. And what are any other core things that listeners and readers should know about the myriad study to understand the results and what you're going to learn from it? So first of all, it was a very large trial, as I mentioned. 84 schools in the UK, over 8,000 students. So it's very well powered, which is important for these machine learning approaches, which are data hungry. There's a lot of machine learning studies where the sample size is a bit too small. It's also important to know that mindfulness was delivered by school teachers, not expert meditators. And the fact that teachers were involved makes it the goal is to make it directly relevant to real world implementation schools, but might potentially come at the cost of reducing the potency of the mindfulness training compared to experts delivering it. Another unique feature of the study is that the unit of randomization was the schools, not the students. So the 84 schools themselves were randomized to receive mindfulness training versus not. And that kind of design can be helpful to inform policy about what new programs to bring to schools or to school districts. So maybe to jump into the most exciting question, let's review some of these main outcomes. You have these machine learning methods. You have this huge data set. We have the school-based prevention and results. So what are the big takeaways that you and the team learned from doing this analysis? So we looked at three main outcomes, which are the three co-primary outcomes that were used in the main trial, which is a measure of depressive symptoms, self-report measure of depressive symptoms. Another measure, which was a measure of emotional and behavioral functioning, it's called the strength and difficulties questionnaire. And the final one was a measure of more positive mental well-being. It's the Warwick-Edinburgh mental well-being scale. So it assesses things like optimism, feeling confident, psychological well-being beyond symptoms. So we had the three of those, and we tried to use our machine learning approaches to predict who would benefit most and benefit to find as improvement in these three measures, would benefit most from mindfulness training versus not. And the bottom line is that we did find some statistically significant differences. So when our machine learning models predicted that you would do better in mindfulness and you happened to be in a school that had mindfulness, you did do better. But the effects were extremely small. So were there really clinically negligible differences between groups? So you can make a prediction, but it wasn't the most clinically meaningful prediction that you're saying. It was a small kind of increase in getting it right or wrong? That's right. So the difference between whether you got your algorithm indicated intervention or not were so small that you wouldn't be using that to prescribe mindfulness to teens. Interesting. So we'll come back to this and explore what could be happening and why it was. In the paper, you also talked about the Personal Advantage Index, and you and your team have done some really fantastic work on the Personal Advantage Index and other studies. But let's quickly just talk about what it is and how you use it in this paper as well. Yeah, so the Personal Advantage Index or PAI is an approach that was originally developed by Rob Derubus and his colleagues at Penn for individualized treatment recommendations and has been adapted in a number of ways since then. We've used it in different studies, as you mentioned. In our study, we used this measure to summarize for each student the expected difference in outcome if they were to receive mindfulness training versus if they didn't. Again, we're using these baseline student and school level characteristics, and the machine learning models are taking these characteristics and they're generating predicted outcomes for each individual. They're expected outcome if they got mindfulness versus if they didn't. And the Personalized Advantage Index or PAI is simply the subtraction of those two. It's the difference between those two predictions. So a positive or negative value indicates which condition the model expects to lead to a better outcome for that student and by how much. So in this case, we're saying the Personal Advantage Index didn't really point too much to one or the other given the results were small. Yeah, I mean, it pointed in some direction. So often, I believe it would predict that the mindfulness training would do better. But then when you look at the outcomes when those individuals got mindfulness training versus didn't, those clinical differences in outcomes were small. And to begin to explore why you found these things, what it might mean. And to discussion you and the team, right, our analysis revealed minimal heterogeneity in intervention response. Why do you think this was so? Yeah, I think it's a very interesting question. I think there's several possible explanations. So first of all, as I mentioned in the original Myriad trial, there was no group differences in outcome. So it might limit how much personalization can help and how much these models can work. And also the intervention itself might not have been potent enough to generate even subgroup effects. So the first program was delivered by teachers who are very busy, have many competing demands. And there are also some concerns about how engaged the students were and how much of the information and mindfulness skills they absorbed in the trial. If you look at what the students were reporting in terms of how much they were practicing mindfulness outside of the intervention, it was very low on average. I think the average amount of practice outside the classroom was one or two times during the intervention period. Oh, that's not very much. No, it's not very much. Another possible reason is maybe we didn't have the right predictor. So these are self-report measures from students and some school level characteristics. Maybe we were missing something that predicts response. Okay, so it makes sense. The method makes a lot of sense that you're applying to help people figure out which one could be useful. But you're saying if there's not a large difference, because the intervention potentially wasn't as effective as we hoped, this may be the result that reflects exactly what that is. Related to that, and we've talked about again, it was maybe hard to find predictions, you've alluded to it, but do you think this means we need better interventions or ways to measure those interventions? That's really a two-part question. I apologize for putting it on you, but one is, do we need better mindfulness and school-based tools or do we need better ways to detect the changes from them or both? Right. I think it's better both. I think on the intervention side, so these kinds of prediction models only work when the treatments you're comparing are sufficiently potent, as I mentioned, and also meaningfully differed in their mechanisms. Meaning if there are two interventions that you're comparing, if they differ in theory, mindfulness versus something different, different theory, but they end up looking very similar in practice or are delivered at too low of a dose, then even the best prediction models won't be able to identify subgroups that do better in one treatment. On the measurement side of things I mentioned, the predictions we had were pretty rich. So we had a lot of student-level variables, school-level characteristics, but maybe they didn't quite capture what was driving differential response. I don't think this is a failure of these prediction models or machine learning. I see this kind of reminder that these kind of precision prediction approaches really require well-delivered, potent interventions, sufficient differences in mechanisms between the interventions you're comparing, and appropriate measurement. It's a nice reminder to line up the methods to the data with it. Of course, now we're in the era of artificial intelligence. Everything seems to be AI these days. Do you see a world where AI can begin to guide these treatments or is it that the work you're doing here, you're going to draw on it? I need to be able to have a personal advantage to index and tell people what's best so AI can follow that, or is AI going to solve all of our problems? Yeah. First of all, thanks for all the writing you've done about chatbots and safety and AI. I do see AI as informing treatment decisions, but a lot more work needs to be done. As you know, the very rapid and exciting advancements in AI just the last few years, especially with these large language models, I think these approaches have a lot of potential to analyze complex clinical and treatment data with the proper data protections in place and patient consent. For example, there's a lot of rich data in electronic health records. The language that's used in therapy sessions by the patient and therapist, there's audio data like the vocal tone of the patient that might suggest different emotions, video data, facial expressions of emotions, body language. There's a lot of rich multimodal data that might signal how therapy is going and how patients are doing that could be fed into these AI predictive models to try to predict optimal treatment assignment. I think in the near term, there is research ongoing now from many groups, including our team, to see if AI can be used not to replace clinicians, but a decision support tool for clinicians. For example, by improving measurements like tracking how patients are doing or flagging risks or identifying likely non-response to a given intervention and so on. I think it's a reasonable and even optimistic. It makes sense. I think we're going to see these AI things come in. They're going to help us better understand response. To me, one takeaway is if you're using really advanced, correctly used machine learning on a data set, and if there's not an obvious answer in this Muriel study of which one to give, machine learning is not going to do better. It's not like you can feed this data set and it's going to magically say, student A gets this and student B gets this. Even though sometimes we wish it could do that, but real methods like this are going to inform what's happening. This is a good reminder that you need really potent interventions and really great measurements paired with it. As AI catches up, it's not going to take anyone's job, as I say now. In the meantime, what comes next for school-based mental health prevention and programs or work that you and your team are doing that we should all be looking out for? I don't think the takeaway is that schools shouldn't be involved in mental health prevention, given that these predictive models, at least in this study, didn't work out as well as we hoped. Schools remain one of the places where we can reach nearly all young people, but I do think that our analysis suggests and our findings suggest that we need to think carefully about the optimal study design. One direction is moving away from purely universal one-size-fits-all approaches towards more targeted interventions where the intervention is matched to the youth's level of risk or their need. There's evidence that these targeted programs are more effective than universal ones. Another direction is focusing on, as we discussed, intervention potency and mechanisms. If we want meaningful effects, programs might need to be stronger, more engaging for teens, so they're actually learning and using these psychological skills that we're trying to encourage them to use and comparing interventions which really differ in their mechanisms. Finally, I think there's growing recognition that these individual-level programs alone might not be enough. In this study, like in many of our prevention efforts and treatments for youth, the mindfulness training was delivered to individuals. Many of the factors that contribute to adolescent depression are broader than the individual, structural, contextual factors like school climate, academic pressures, bullying, socioeconomic stressors, problems at home or in the community. It might be helpful for school-based mental health efforts to try to integrate these broader system-level changes to have a more meaningful impact. As an analogy with asthma, you can treat the child with medication, but if you don't address the environmental triggers like the mold in the home, the treatment's only going to go so far. I think, again, everything you said makes a lot of sense, and that is going to be the future. These programs are just going to get better, more personalized and more effective, which is a wonderful, perhaps, place to end this podcast. Again, I'm John Torres. I've been speaking with Dr. Webb about predicting adolescent responses to school-based mindfulness, a machine learning analysis in the Muriel trial. To learn more about this research, you can find a link to the article in the episode's description. To follow this and other Jaman Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamannetworkaudio.com or search for Jaman Network wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Daniel Moro at Jaman Network. Thanks for listening.