In 2022, there were more than 48 000 firearm-related deaths in the United States, which equates to 132 people dying a day from a firearm-related injury. Firearms are also among the top five leading causes of death for people in the US under the age of 45 and firearms are the leading cause of death among US children and teens. I'm Dr Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, editor in chief of JAMA and the JAMA Network. Welcome to part one of our two-part interview with Dr Vivek Murthy, Surgeon General of the United States. In this episode, we'll discuss his recent advisory declaring firearm violence a public health crisis. Dr Murthy, thank you for joining me here today to discuss this advisory. Well, thanks so much, Kirsten. I'm glad we're having this conversation. Wonderful, Wonderful. So I hope you don't mind if I call you Vivek. Gun violence, it's something that we know quite a bit about in the US. As clinicians, we are aware of the impact of firearms for our patients. We think about it in communities. What is it that makes you, as the Surgeon General, now issue an advisory declaring firearm violence a public health crisis? Well, here's why Kirsten, I think many clinicians and folks in the world of public health understand that gun violence is a public health issue. My belief has always been when you have large numbers of people who are dying and being injured for preventable reasons that constitutes a health issue and one that we all have a role in addressing as clinicians and public health leaders. And while we know that, I worry that the way gun violence has been framed over the years has been as a political issue. Not a public health issue. The goal of my advisory is to do a few things. It's number one, to shift how we think about this issue as a public health concern. It's second, to lay out the extent of the problem, which I think we profoundly underestimate. The greatest price we pay with firearm violence are the lives lost, nearly 50 000 a year. But there are other costs as well. The ripple effects that we see of gun violence extend to people who are shot but who survive, people who witness the incidents, family members who lose loved ones, communities who deal with the trauma of an incident that took place in their neighborhoods. And of course, the millions of people including our children who are watching and hearing about these episodes of gun violence every day. And it's for that reason that six in 10 adults in America are now saying that they're worried about losing a loved one to gun violence. It's why more than 50% of our kids are saying that they are scared about a school shooting happening in their school. These profound numbers, they're just not normal. We shouldn't accept this as just the way things are and we are really an outlier when it comes to other countries in terms of the toll of gun violence and we can do better. So my goal with my advisory was to reframe this issue as a public health issue, lay out the full cost of gun violence, but also lay out strategies that I firmly believe can help us because they follow a public health approach to addressing the problem and focus essentially on prevention on treating the aftermath of these episodes, which include the mental health aftermath. And it's high time for us as a country to rally together around these strategies, because when you understand, perhaps one last thing, which has really weighed heavily on me as a parent, when you understand the fact that gun violence is now the leading cause of death among children and adolescents age one through 19, that by the way was not true 10 years ago or 20 years ago, then you start to realize that this is really a kid's issue as well. And if there's one thing that should bring us together to take action, to break with the status quo with the old way of doing things, it should be when our kids' health and wellbeing is a risk. Thank you. I think that's one of the things that the report lays out so nicely is just the full toll. Obviously the people who die from violence is part of that, but really I think you tie it so nicely to the mental health issues as well as the overwhelming burden in children. And we should rally around that. You mentioned, JAMA has published quite a bit on this because the numbers are so stark. What does it mean to take a public health approach to this, to reframe gun violence as a public health issue? So it means that we can do a few things. One is that we can think and talk differently about this issue. Health is something that historically has brought us together, not always, but historically, often, and because we all realize that our health is something that we all care about, it's a shared concern. When it comes to gun violence. I have traveled around our country to big cities, small towns, and I have had town halls and small group meetings with thousands and thousands of Americans. And whether people are young or old, whether they're gun owners or not gun owners, everybody wants their kids to be able to go to school safely. Nobody wants to worry that going to the theater or going to work or going to church or synagogue means putting your life at risk. Yet so many people are feeling that way. So we do have a shared desire to create healthier, safer environments and giving us a way to rethink and talk differently about gun violence is one advantage of a public health approach. The other thing though it does is it gives us a tried and true playbook to work from when it comes to addressing gun violence. And this is a playbook we've used with tobacco, with car accident-related deaths over the years. What we typically do in a public health approach is we gather data, we analyze that data to understand which populations are most at risk. We design interventions thoughtfully, we implement those. We study the implementation, we scale interventions that work. These are part of the tried and true approach that public health has taken over the years. And I'll lastly say this, Kirsten because this is really important. People will sometimes look at this issue and say, gosh, this feels intractable because it's really impossible to make progress on this. And listen, I get that. I have been watching the same situation play out that other people have as well in terms of the politics and polarization around this issue. But a couple of things give me hope. One is that in the last few years we have seen Congress put a modest amount of funding toward gun violence research. I want to emphasize modest. There's a lot more that has to be provided here, but that was the first time in decades they had actually done that and done so in a bipartisan way. Two years ago, we saw Congress pass a bipartisan Safer Communities Act, first federal legislation in 30 years to start addressing gun violence. These were really important shifts, I believe, in how Congress has operated. But finally, just think about our history in public health. There was a time half a century ago where people said smoking, gosh, that's an intractable issue in the country. In 1964 when my predecessor, Luther Terry issued the first Surgeon General's report on tobacco, 42% of the country smoked. There were ads for tobacco everywhere. Kids were seeing them, doctors were smoking. This was just part of the fabric of America or so it seemed. But that report combined with all of the efforts that helped catalyze education programs and communities, advocacy movements among youth and parents, policies from local, state and federal lawmakers, they all help to reduce smoking rates from 42% to under 12% today. So we can make progress on these seemingly intractable issues, and this is one where I feel like we've got to do a lot more because again, it's our kids who are at stake, but it's also the mental health and wellbeing of the country that's really in the balance. Yeah, thank you. I think that frames it well, and tobacco is obviously a great example, but also the issue that you raised with automobile safety where because we studied it, because we took several discreet steps along the way, driving is much safer than it was in the past. The cars that we use are much safer than they were in the past because we focused on the issues of safety and made a lot of incremental steps along the way. And I think framing it around health and safety, I think it seems to be a way forward that hopefully people can rally around. That is my hope. I know it won't be easy. These kind of major changes on monumental issues that we face as a country, they require a lot of effort, persistence, determination, and a lot of conversations. But again, I think they're well worth having because we've lived the counterfactual, if you will. We've lived the alternative, which is to operate on this issue as if it's a political and polarizing issue. And that has not helped us save lives. It has in fact led to a circumstance where our basic functions and day-to-day activities we were worried about and were questioning and we're living in fear. And when you look at the data, when you hear the stories, as I've heard all across the country, you start to realize that the fear of gun violence has really infiltrated the psyche of our country. I talked to a grandmother who told me that her grandchild has stopped wearing light up shoes, the shoes that flash when you step on them that are popular among kids, and he stopped wearing them because he didn't want to be a target for a shooter in case there was a shooting in his school. I've talked to middle school students who have told me that they're worried about shootings taking place in their school. There was a mother I spoke to who was actually at a public event where a mass shooting took place a couple of years ago, and she happened to be in her flip flops at the time and had a hard time running away from the shooter and trying to protect her family. And to this day, whenever she goes out, she worries about wearing flip flops because she doesn't know if she's going to be in another situation where there's an active shooter where she's going to have to flee. You hear these stories and you start to realize, this is coloring our day-to-day existence, but this is a choice. It does not have to be this way, and I do not want us to accept this as a reality. We can certainly do better. We have a large clinical audience that oftentimes is watching or listening to our multimedia. Vivek, what practical advice do you have for clinicians? How can clinicians, in speaking with their patients or family members give practical advice about reducing firearm violence? Well, look, I think clinicians have a really important role here and you could say perhaps I'm biased. My first and foremost professional identity is that of A clinician, and I just have great respect for our colleagues across the country who, not just for what they do in clinic and in hospitals every day, but really for the mindset and the values that they're trying to bring to our public conversations on health issues like gun violence. But look, a few concrete things I have laid out in our advisory for clinicians. Number one, having conversations with patients about safe storage can actually be immensely helpful. Look, as clinicians, we're not strangers to safety conversations, right? We have them. Pediatricians talk to parents all the time about kids in pools, right? We don't want kids to unintentionally fall into a pool and drown. We talk to them about safety with regard to driving. We talk about drinking and driving. We talk about a number of things related to safety. It turns out that we lose far too many children in particular every year to incidents that often happen in the home with unlocked loaded weapons, right? And so the simple act of taking more care to store weapons carefully, unloaded and locked, can literally save lives and prevent injuries so that kind of education can be powerful. It's also important for clinicians to, when they recognize the mental health impact of gun violence, to keep that in mind as they see patients and as they're getting their history. If there is a history of gun violence that a patient has experienced, to be mindful of the mental health consequences that they may lead to, sometimes that can last for years. It's worth keeping in mind that 54% of Americans have either directly or through a family member experienced gun violence. That could be losing a loved one, being threatened with a firearm, being shot and injured by a firearm. And 54%, that means unquestionable that if you're a clinician out there, that you're going to be seeing patients who have experienced the mental or physical harms of firearm violence. So those are some things that clinicians can do. I'll lastly say more broadly about healthcare systems. We know that hospital violence intervention programs, which are powerful, evidence-based methods using human beings and relationships and dialogue and engagement to actually interrupt the cycle of violence that too often propagates in our communities. There more broadly are community violence intervention programs, which can use many similar principles. But this is a place where I think health systems both directly through what are called HVIPs, Hospital Violence Intervention Programs, and through their support of the community-based programs can do a lot to help address gun violence. But most importantly, I think the health systems need to support clinicians in doing this work and having these conversations with patients. Having trained in primary care myself, I'm aware that the easiest thing to do in healthcare is to add more to the list for primary care doctors to do. And so we've got to be mindful of that and make sure that when we're making additional asks, that we're providing not just material resources, but the kind of technology and added support for clinicians to be able to have these important conversations with patients. Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you for joining me and congratulations on the advisory. And a wake up call for all of us to really pay attention to this important issue. Thanks so much, Kirsten. And to our audience, thank you for watching or listening to part one of our interview with Dr Vivek Murthy. In part two, I speak with the Surgeon General about the dangers of social media for youth mental health. This episode was developed and researched by JAMA Associate Editor Dr Yulin Hswen, and was produced by Patrick Lile and Shelly Steffens at the JAMA Network. I'm Dr Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo. Subscribe to the JAMA Network YouTube channel and join us next time.