From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Clinical Reviews, interviews and ideas about innovations in medicine, science, and clinical practice. Here's your host. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to the JAMA Clinical Reviews podcast. Thanks for being here. I'm Dr. David Simel, JAMA Associate Editor and Professor Emeritus of Medicine at the Durham Veterans Affairs Medical Center and Duke University. In this podcast, we will be discussing resistant hypertension. I'm joined today by Dr. Michel Azizi, who is a Professor of Vascular Medicine at the Georges Pompidou University Hospital in Paris, France. Dr. Azizi is the lead author of our narrative review on resistant hypertension, which appears in the March 23rd, 2025 edition of JAMA. Dr. Azizi, thank you for joining us today. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this important matter today. Well, let's talk about a patient under treatment for hypertension with an office systolic blood pressure of, say, 130 mm of mercury or greater or a diastolic pressure of 80 mm or greater. When do they have apparent resistant hypertension? They have apparent resistant hypertension when they have this level of blood pressure, which is uncontrolled, the level you mentioned, despite treatment with three antihypertensive medication from different classes at maximally tolerated doses, including a diuretic. Ideally, and this is the AHA recommendation, this three-drug regimen should include an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, a calcium channel blocker, and a thiazide-type diuretic. What is important to know is that in these patients, even small reductions in blood pressure, 2 to 5 mm of mercury, can significantly reduce cardiovascular risk. Well, let's say they are on those three medications, or rather, a medication from each of those three classes. Does that mean they have true resistant hypertension? No, that doesn't mean immediately that they have true resistant hypertension. And before labeling a patient as truly resistant, we should confirm that the resistance to treatment is real. And the important step is to rule out three common causes of apparent resistance, white coat hypertension, medication non-adherence, and secondary hypertension. Actually, white coat hypertension is quite common, occurring in about 30 to 40% of patients with apparently resistant hypertension. And this white coat phenomenon refers to situation where blood pressure is elevated in the office, but normal outside the office. That's why the first step when we are facing a patient with resistant hypertension is to perform an out-of-office blood pressure measurement. This is essential. Either using home monitoring or 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring. And if out-of-office blood pressure is normal, the patient has most likely white coat hypertension rather than true resistant hypertension. If we focus on how to measure correctly home blood pressure, patients should be trained by either the clinician or nurse on how to correctly use a validated automated device with the correct cuff size. Well, how should we measure the blood pressure at home? This patient should measure blood pressure twice daily for at least 3 days, and if possible, for 1 week, after 5 minutes of rest, recording two readings 1 minute apart. And when we use home blood pressure monitoring, resistant hypertension is defined as an average of all recorded blood pressure above 130 mm of mercury or greater for systolic blood pressure, or 80 mm of mercury or greater for diastolic blood pressure. If we consider ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, it's slightly different. It provides reading every 15 to 30 minutes during the day and every 30 to 60 minutes at night. On 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure monitoring, resistant hypertension is defined as an average systolic blood pressure of 125 mm of mercury or greater, or diastolic blood pressure of 75 mm of mercury or greater. So, how do we check whether the patient is adherent to our regimen after we've ruled out white coat hypertension? This is a critical step in evaluating patients with resistant hypertension. This is truly very important, and clinician should take time to verify treatment adherence. And in practice, this begins with just a non-judgmental conversation with the patient, whether they can take easily their medication, did they forget, did they stop, are they making weekend holidays? So, the clinician should also verify if there are barriers that may interfere with adherence to treatment, such as medication side effects, cost, too complex medication regimen, or cognitive and psychological factors. Another way also to check is reviewing pharmacy refill records, which can provide indirect evidence of whether medication are being taken regularly. And in some very selected cases, we can measure drug or metabolic levels in specialized laboratories in blood or in urine. The important step here is also to check the full medication list of the patient, not only to identify the very complex regimen that can be prescribed and may affect adherence, but also to detect medication that may raise blood pressure, such as NSAIDs or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. In your article, you address the concept of secondary hypertension. What is secondary hypertension, and how does sleep apnea and primary aldosteronism fit in this category? So, secondary hypertension is in contrast with primary hypertension. Secondary hypertension means that there is a cause, which is in general treatable and which will lower blood pressure. Tell me about the evaluation of some common causes of secondary hypertension. Two most important secondary causes of resistant hypertension are obstructive sleep apnea and primary aldosteronism, which we refer to primary aldo, which are both very common. You see, for example, sleep apnea is found in roughly 25 to 50% of patients with resistant hypertension, particularly in those who are overweight and obese. So, this can be screened with questionnaires and confirmed with sleep studies if necessary, and the treatment typically use CPAP therapy. The other major cause that I spoke about was primary aldosteronism, which may be present, and you have to imagine this, in up to 1/4 of the patients, yet remains really underdiagnosed. In practice, screening involves measuring plasma aldosterone and renin levels simultaneously and calculating the aldosterone to renin ratio. If the ratio is elevated, ideally, the patient should be referred to a specialized hypertension or endocrinology center for confirmation of the diagnosis and appropriate treatment, which can be mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist or surgery if they have an isolated adenoma producing aldosterone. Is the presence of hypokalemia alone an adequate screening test for aldosteronism? Presence of hypokalemia should raise really the attention towards primary aldo, specifically if if it's spontaneous or triggered by diuretics. But, it's not enough. Around 50% of the patients with primary aldo have normal serum potassium levels. So, we cannot rely on just this parameter. It's not enough. It's really not enough. But, when it's present, it's really painful to not check for primary aldo. Well, let's say we've confirmed resistant hypertension. What lifestyle changes might be effective? Lifestyle changes should be applied even in this condition and even reinforced in this condition. The first point is sodium excess is a major contributor to resistant hypertension, and it's often driven by high salt intake, specifically from processed foods. So, the first important step is reducing dietary sodium. And the American Heart Association recommends limiting sodium intake to less than 1,500 mg per day, particularly in patients with resistant hypertension. But, it's not alone. The reduction in salt intake should ideally be accompanied by an increase in dietary potassium, like vegetables, green vegetables, for example, and fruits, or the use of salt substitutes when kidney function is low. So, if it's low, eGFR, the clinician should be aware that the serum potassium level can raise too much. So, in practice, these changes are often best implemented through the DASH eating plan. The other points are patients should also aim to reduce their body weight, limit or avoid alcohol, and engage in regular physical activity. And the American Heart Association recommends 150 minutes of aerobic exercise per week, plus resistance training on at least 2 days per week. You noted patients should limit alcohol. How important is it to avoid alcohol? Well, depends on which side of the Atlantic you are concerning this consumption. If I want to be very pure in the decision, it's better to take no alcohol, so zero alcohol. But what has been demonstrated is those who have a really strong alcohol intake, let's say about four to five drinks per day, then reducing for men to two drinks per day, I don't want to say that it should be done like this. I just want to say that reducing the amount of alcohol also reduces blood pressure because alcohol has a direct pressure effect. It increases blood pressure. So, each time the patient drink alcohol, there's an increase in blood pressure. And those who are drinking too much alcohol are also less adherent to treatment, et cetera. And it contributes to obesity and overweight. So, it sounds like none is better than some, but some is better than a lot. Yeah, exactly. You summarized it perfectly. Well, what medication changes can we make? The first thing is that we have to be sure that the patients are receiving really truly the optimal guideline recommended therapy. So, we already talked about it that the preferred combination includes an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, a long-acting calcium channel blocker, dihydropyridine, and a thiazide type diuretic. Ideally, this combination should be given as a single pill combination whenever possible. This is aiming to simplify treatment because patients will take one pill or two pill, and reducing the burden of medication intake helps for adherence and improves adherence. The second point is concerning diuretic therapy. Is Chlorthalidone is generally preferred over hydrochlorothiazide as the thiazide of choice, especially in patients with chronic kidney disease. The next step, if blood pressure remains uncontrolled, is typically to add the mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist spironolactone at a dose of 25 to 50 mg per day, provided kidney function and potassium levels are low. But you know that spironolactone can be hard to be tolerated. So, if it's not tolerated, eplerenone, another mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist without the six or sexual side effects of spironolactone, or amiloride can be considered. We also have additional options, either as alternative to spironolactone or as add-on therapy if blood pressure still remains uncontrolled. This include beta blockers, alpha blockers, centrally acting agent, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, vasodilators, or neurotherapy such as the endothelin receptor antagonist aprocitentan. When a patient with resistant hypertension actually gets in control, the eGFR might decrease. And you noted that patients with a 30% or greater change in the eGFR might have renal artery disease. But what about patients who have a smaller decreases in eGFR? You're quite right. Small decreases in eGFR are common and expected after improving blood pressure control. And indeed, a decline less than 30% in eGFR within, let's say, 1 month of starting or escalating the antihypertensive treatment reflects a hemodynamic change, essentially a reduction in renal perfusion pressure as blood pressure improves. What is very important is that the small change in eGFR does not indicate a structural kidney injury, and the antihypertensive therapy should not be reduced or stopped when the change remains within that trench of less than 30%. This is very important. Otherwise, indeed, eGFR goes back to its initial level, but blood pressure will not be controlled. Is there anything else you'd like our listeners to know about resistant hypertension? The clinician should know that the new treatment option are emerging for these patients. First, according to the 2025 American Heart and American College of Cardiology guidelines, once secondary causes of hypertension have been ruled out, and blood pressure remains uncontrolled despite optimal therapy, including a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as spironolactone, catheter-based renal denervation may be considered in selected patients. We have to put this in our minds as physician that there is a slightly invasive procedure that can reduce blood pressure specifically in this case. Dr. Azizi, can you tell me a little bit about how catheter-based renal denervation is done and what the results are? So, renal denervation is an endovascular procedure, and the dedicated catheter is introduced via femoral route in one and the other renal artery, and it's using energy, either radiofrequency energy or ultrasound energy to make ablation of the renal nerves, which are present at the level of the adventitia of the renal arteries. So, either radiofrequency energy or ultrasound energy will make a heating injury at the level of these nerves and will interrupt the sympathetic drive to the kidney or backwards from the kidneys to the centers in the brain. So, this is the technology, how it is used, based on really a very important knowledge from the past about the role of the sympathetic nerves, and specifically those going to the kidneys. And the results of the different sham-controlled trials showed that in patients with hypertension, either resistant or uncontrolled hypertension, this type of therapy on top of medication treatment can reduce blood pressure by 80 pm of about 5 to 6 mm of mercury systolic blood pressure, also to reduce the number of medication. So, it improves the control in blood pressure, and allowing also to reduce the burden of antihypertensive medications. At the same time, new medications are also under investigation, including aldosterone synthase inhibitors, and small interfering RNA therapies targeting angiotensinogen, which is the substrate of renin, and all these medication may offer new strategies for long-term blood pressure control. Well, thank you for talking to us today about resistant hypertension. I am Dr. David Simel, and I've been speaking with Dr. Michel Azizi about resistant hypertension. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelly Stefans at the JAMA Network. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamanetworkaudio.com, or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcast. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.