What if preventing skin cancer was as easy as taking a vitamin? About a decade ago, the OnTrack trial made headlines when it found that nicotinomide, a form of vitamin B3, could lower rates of certain skin cancers in high-risisk patients. In a new retrospective study in jamodermatology, authors followed more than 30,000 patients with a history of skin cancer who were either prescribed or not prescribed nicotenomide. They found that patients that were prescribed nicotinomide had a between 15 and 50% reduction in subsequent skin cancer development. With me is the study senior author Dr. Lee Wheelis. Dr. Wheelis, do these results mean we should be recommending that all of our patients, even those with just one skin cancer, this vitamin supplement, should they be ditching their sunscreen in favor of taking this vitamin instead? >> I'm never going to recommend against sunscreen. probably the uh the best uh data that we have right now is that sunscreen is very effective at preventing all types of skin cancer. And while these uh results are really really encouraging, we've got a couple things we got to keep in mind. So, first off, for the crew who thinks that we need to be putting nicotinite in the water, we did not study any patients for primary prevention. Everyone in this study had to have at least one skin cancer. Next, this was again an observational study. we didn't control who did or did not get nicotenomide at all. And lastly, and kind of most importantly is that while we did a very good job of accounting for lots of different risk factors for skin cancer and even their temporality, for the patients who were unexposed, we still had to impute their start date. That is, we essentially had to make it up based on our statistical models. And that's never going to be as good as when we do a prospective study. And so that's why even though these are really pretty compelling results, we're still going to be putting in for a clinical trial to do this prospectively to really put the nail in the coffin and figure this out.