From the Jamama Network, this is Jamma Opthalmology author interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in Jamama Opthalmology. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to Jamba Opthalmology author interviews and thank you so much for joining us. I'm Neil Brassler, editor and chief of JAMA opthalmology. And today we're going to look at the primary results from the steroids and cross-linking for ulcer treatment trial, a randomized clinical trial evaluating whether adjunctive topical corticosteroids and or corial cross-linking improve outcomes in bacterial keratitis. And joining me is the corresponding author of that manuscript reporting these primary results for that clinical trial, Dr. Jennifer Rose Nuspower. Dr. Rose Nuspower is an associate professor of opthalmology at Stanford University. Jennifer, thank you so much for joining us. >> Neil, thank you so much for having me. It's very exciting. >> I thought as a retina specialist, not a cornea specialist, that we think about to perhaps treat keraticonus or diseases like that. How did we go from using cross-laking from keraticonis to thinking maybe this can be an adjunctive treatment to bacterial keratitis? So it comes about from a long history of studying bacterial ulcers at the Proctor Foundation and the original Scott trial which was the steroids for corial ulcer treatment trial that was led by Nisha Charia and Tom Leman and they hypothesized that adjunctive treatment with steroids would benefit coral ulcers because while we can treat infection with antibiotics there's a lot of inflammation that happens during ing infection. That inflammation is beneficial to clear infection but can cause damage to the cornea which needs to remain clear. Building on the findings of that study which found overall no benefit to steroids but a benefit in non nocardia ulcers or large ulcers that were treated early. We designed this trial. We think that cross-linking has not only direct antimicrobial effects, but we think also that there may be some anti-inflammatory effects because we know that cross-linking damages keratosytes and also likely damages any inflammatory cells that are in the cornea. So it may reduce the infectious ideology but also reduce inflammation in the cornea. And then finally, strengthening properties that we see in cross-linking for keraticonus for example also apply to infected corneas. So the cross-linking of those collagen fibbrals may strengthen the cornea and prevent it from perforating. And that was the main hypothesis. >> So that's really interesting. Were there some doctors who were reluctant to test this? Perhaps they said of course this works. I think that there are some really strong proponents of cross-linking. For example, Dr. Hezi in Switzerland is very convinced that cross-linking for bacterial ulcers is very useful. He also uses different protocols. So, I think he had some concern about using, you know, a standard Dresden protocol and thinking that higher fluence protocols would work better. >> Now, what about the corticosteroids? Is that something that's just routine for treating bacterial keratitis or are there people who thought we don't need to use that either? So, it'll be adding cortical steroids, adding corial cross-linking or both. >> Historically, treating bacterial ulcers with steroids has been a little controversial. Over time, I think more people have adopted the practice. It certainly depends on how good your microbiology lab is because what's really fundamentally important is to know that you're treating a typical bacteria. So you want to have a culture positive ulcer before starting steroids. I'm much more cautious when I'm not 100% sure that it's a bacterial ulcer, but I think that a lot of people have moved toward treating with steroids. The thing that might be a little controversial with this study is that we use dlupredate which is about twice as strong as predacetate and we started the treatment after only 24 hours on antibiotics. So that was looking at confirming some of the benefits from the Scott trial which showed that early ulcers so treated earlier in the disease course had better outcomes. >> So we ended up then with forearms. Is that correct? And what were those four arms then? >> No, there were only three arms. There was the moxiflaxin alone arm and those patients did get a placebo eye drop and they had sham cross-linking. Then we had a steroid arm where they had moxifluxin plus steroid and sham cross-linking. And then we had a third arm which was duprenate and cross-linking as in addition to the moxylaxisin. >> Excellent. And then what was the primary outcome and at what time point were you going for that primary outcome? >> So the primary outcome that we chose was visual acuity and it was at 6 months. What's interesting for us is a lot of people say why don't you choose ulcer healing and we essentially feel that we did choose ulcer healing but we broke it down into smaller very objective findings. So we looked at visual acuity and then secondary outcomes including infiltrate scar size, need for therapeutic transplant, microbiological cure, things like that. So all of those things put together are quote unquote cure. So after screening the individuals that might be able to enter this trial, you went down to about 280 participants that were going to be randomly assigned into these three groups. Over what time period did that occur? Was this 2020 during the pandemic? Was this just last year? When were these participants enrolled? They were enrolled over the course of several years because it's hard to find that many bacterial ulcers that met criteria that were still smear or culture positive by the time we saw them at our enrollment sites. There were exclusion criteria because we didn't want them to have multiple infections and things like that. We were going to start enrollment in 2020, but that was a little bit delayed and so we ended up starting after the worst of the pandemic was over. >> Since visual cut was your primary outcome, where did the visual cutia begin for these patients? >> They had very poor vision on average, although we included some participants who had it was basically 2060 or worse vision. So there were a group of patients who were in that 2060 range and then there were patients who were much worse. >> So tell me the results. We have these 280 participants and they're randomly assigned to one of these three approaches to treat this bacterial keratitis. Did this corial cross-linking as an adjunctive treatment really help the visual acuity outcomes? Well, it turns out that all three arms got a lot better over time and there was really no difference between those that got the placebo and sham, those that got the steroid and those that got the cross-linking. >> Was this surprising to the investigators when they first saw the results? I would say perhaps surprising also mostly disappointing because we were hoping that these treatments would be beneficial. >> Why do you think there was this idea that maybe it was helpful and then this very well designed study really shows no difference between the three arms? Is it possible there was some selection bias in the cases that were presented previously? Is it possible people just didn't realize how well you might do even without this Cornell cross linking? >> Well, I think a lot of infectious disease experts would say, I don't actually care if there's a difference in visual acuity. What I want to see is some of the other things like whether we clear the infection faster, whether they perforate less often. I'd be willing to sacrifice a little difference in visual acuity if those other outcomes are there because when we have a perforating ulcer and we have to take them to transplant, outcomes tend to be very bad from those surgeries. So, if I can prevent one or two of those and I'm going to be a lot happier and willing to sacrifice a half a line of vision or no difference in vision. It's interesting. I'm not sure other infectious disease experts in the cornea world care as much about the visual acuity >> and of course the patient cares about the visual acutity. So it makes a lot of sense that you chose that. Were there any limitations to the study that might have affected the interpretation of these results? For example, was one group followed less often or lost a follow-up? Were they not balanced at baseline for factors that might influence the outcome? We feel that actually at baseline the characteristics were very well balanced between the groups and we had some loss to followup but it was very similar among the different groups and there were no characteristics of those who are lost to follow-up that we felt biased the study. So we actually feel pretty confident of the result that we have. I would say even though we enrolled nearly 300 participants, we may be a little bit underpowered to have found a difference. But I think some of the findings from the other outcomes make it less important because we found that the patients who had cross-linking actually had larger and worse scar at 6 months. And so even if their vision wasn't different, they actually were having worse outcomes. And so I think in the end, it's interesting. I had to look at every single picture and try and figure out like why would they have the same vision more or less and worse scar sizes. And what I came to was sometimes the scar doesn't overlap with the pupil and so it doesn't block the pupil or affect the vision but the scar we can measure it and that demonstrated that those with cross-linking actually did worse. >> No, I think it's so interesting because for example in retina sometimes we find that one treatment gives no better visual acuity than the other. So for the patient that function is everything and then the opthalmologist wonders well I see less thickening on the OCT so maybe there's something here and yet it just doesn't correspond to the visual acuity. So we often say function usually should trump anatomic outcomes but are you going to look at this further? Do you plan on looking at other subgroups to at least generate some hypotheses of how to consider this cross-linking in the future? Absolutely. We had a lot of prespecified secondary outcomes and we collected a lot of data. So we are very interested to see if there is a role for cross-linking or steroids in more severe infections in patients who have drugresistant infections. So we'll be excited to share those results with everyone when we have them analyzed. >> Well, that's fantastic. We really do look forward to seeing those. Although you probably would need to start another randomized trial to see if those secondary analyses can be proven when they're chosen to be a primary outcome if indeed they are relevant. So what has this done to practice now? People who were doing coral cross linking when treating their bacterial keratitis will they continue will you continue? Will you be a little less enthusiastic about this? What's the impact of this on uh clinical management of bacterial keratitis? For now, I would not recommend corial cross-linking for infectious keratitis. I know that there are some people who use higher fluence protocols. And I have concerns about that because I would think that higher fluence would actually then cause worse coral scarring until a trial is done that proves that those protocols are better. I would hold off. As far as steroids are concerned, all of the outcomes were better with steroids. Vision, infiltrate scar size, less TBK. there was no difference with microbiological cure, so it didn't impact our ability to treat the infection. None of those findings were statistically significant. We're working on a meta analysis right now with the original Scut trial, but I feel comfortable using topical steroids myself. I think there are potential benefits and the studies have shown that it is safe, although we haven't proven that it helps. >> It really has changed practice. people didn't know and now you've given them a tremendous amount of information as to perhaps the role of cross-linking in bacterial keratitis and perhaps a little less enthusiasm for it based on this very welldesigned and operated study. So thank you Dr. Rose Nusbmer so much for sharing this information with us. >> Thank you so much for having me >> and thanks to your co-investigators as well and all the participants. I know it takes a lot of work, a lot of time to put these studies together. We're thankful to all of you for doing this. >> I especially want to thank Tom Leapman who was my co-PI and all of my study team who I could not have done this without and then Dr. Pna at the Air Hospital who is a great collaborator >> just wonderful. I'm Neil Breastler and I've been speaking with Dr. Jennifer Rose Nusfmer on the primary outcome results from the steroids and cross-linking for ulcer treatment trial. This was a randomized clinical trial trying to see if cross-linking would be a beneficial adjunctive treatment in bacterial paratitis. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at thejamba Network. And to follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online at jambnetworkaudio.com or search for Jamba Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks everyone for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.