Hello and welcome to Conversations with Dr. Bachner. Once again, it is Howard Bachner, editor and chief of JAMA. I'm joined by uh three remarkable individuals. Uh Lisa Cooper is the Bloomberg distinguished professor equity in health and health care, professor of medicine, John's Hopkins University. David Williams. David is the Florence and Laura Norman Professor of Public Health, Chair, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard Thchan School of Public Health, Professor of African and African-American Studies and Sociology, Harvard University. and Clyde Yansancy, a friend and a colleague, the Magenrad Professor, Professor of Medicine in Cardiology and Medical Social Sciences, Northwestern Fineberg School of Medicine, where he is vice dean for diversity and inclusion, chief of cardiology in the department of medicine. Lisa David Clyde, thank you for joining me today. Absolutely. Thank you for having us. before starting um as we talked um this this podcast this live stream is focused on structural racism in medicine and I I think this particular um conversation needs context. On February 24th of this year, Jamba tweeted about a recently posted podcast discussing structural racism in medicine. The language of the tweet as well as portions of the podcast do not reflect my commitment as editorial leader of JAMA and the JAMA network to call out and discuss the adverse effects of injustice, inequity, and racism in medicine and society. I take full responsibility for these lapses and sincerely apologize for both the lapses and the harm caused by both the tweet and aspects of the podcast. comments made in the podcast were inaccurate, offensive, hurtful, and inconsistent with the standards of JAMA. I want to be clear, racism and structural racism exist in the United States and in healthcare. Um, JAMA will schedule a podcast and that's exactly what we've done. I've written on I wrote on March 4th in the future to further discuss issues of structural racism. David, um, uh, this is work you've been at for decades. In 2015, you wrote a piece with Ron Wyatt for JAMA entitled Racial Bias in Healthcare and Health. What's the current landscape of structural racism in medicine? How do you think about it? I I think of structural racism in medicine in the broader context of structural racism in the United States. And medicine is one institution in American society, but structural racism is pervasive throughout American society. and and so the the health care system like other social systems has been shaped by structural racism and and sometimes reshapes structural racism in in powerful ways. I want to give a concrete example. One of the aspects of structural racism that I have studied is is residential segregation. It's a legacy of the past. Um, it it started in the late 19th century, was was established firmly in the 20th century, and has been in place since 1940. And although it's been illegal since the 1960s, the structure put in place still exists. And you say, well, what does that have to do with health? Well, where you live in these United States determines access to opportunity on so many dimensions, including access to high-quality medical care, but it's it's access to educational opportunity, access to employment opportunities. I I'll tell you how powerful it is. Let me cite empirical evidence. There was a study by uh uh David Cutland, economist at Harvard University, and he showed statistically if we could eliminate residential segregation in the United States, we would completely erase black white differences in income, in education, in unemployment, and reduce black white differences in single motherhood by 2/3. All of these striking differences are driven by opportunity at the neighborhood level. And it didn't just happen. It's not an accident. It's not an act of God. It reflects the successful implementation of social policy. And those neighborhoods that lack access in education and occupation and so on often lack access in highquality medical care as well. Lisa, when you hear David's um remarkable analysis of a hundred years of structural racism around where people live h how do you think about that? So um I think about structural racism as manifesting in medicine um in a number of different ways. So one of them might be the resources that are available to minority serving institutions. Those institutions that are historically minority who many of which exist in those neighborhoods that David was just describing. Um and um those institutions that aren't historically minority but that do serve those populations and find and and are situated in those regions, they tend to have lower levels of resources devoted to them and to have less access to um a lot of the the amenities that other larger institutions might have. People are less likely to be attracted to go and work there. So they have many uh fewer staff that might have experiences and things like that. um and they experience discrimination in who they can refer their patients to. So that would be one manifestation. Another one would just be in the patterns of health care disparities that we see. You know, we just see that because of where minority patients go for the most part and then also because of the interpersonal interactions within those systems. But in large part because of where they get their care, they experience poor health care quality and poor access to health care. Then we look at the structure of the the people who are delivering care and the fact that they often don't look like the uh communities of color that they might serve. So the racial and ethnic diversity of the workforce and then you just look at other institutional practices and policies and funding for uh health equity work and so on and so forth and you see disparities in that. So I see structural racism as manifesting in in those ways, you know, in terms of health care, in terms of resources, in terms of the racial and ethnic diversity, and in terms of the funding, which is also part of of the resources, but the funding not just for health care, but also for science and for education that leads to um better uh health care for communities of color. Yeah. There's about a 100,000 individuals in the US with cickle cell disease. There's about 25,000 with cystic fibrosis and the stark contrast in funding for those two entities has been well delineated. Clyde, uh, you're a cardiologist, you care for patients, you're at a remarkable institution. When you hear David and Lisa comment about the larger world, living, housing, and then Lisa talks more specifically about healthcare encounters. How do you think about it? So hard, first this is a necessary conversation and I applaud you for bringing this together and I applaud you for creating this opportunity interact with David and to be very clear there bookends here that touch the space in which I live and work. One space is the diversity of our physician workforce. 100 years ago or more. The floods in the report deconstructed most of the medical educational opportunities for blacks. Using David's term empirical evidence, it's a clear estimate between 30 to 50,000 physicians did not evolve because of the consequence of losing those schools. the ultimate toll that that represents with the absence of representation and those who provide care, particularly care to those that are underserved, has been almost incalculable. And so for those who argue about the entity of structural racism, that one act alone of closing all but two minority serving medical schools at the turn of the 20th century still has consequences in the 21st century that I and others who advocate for diversity in medical education are still trying to overcome. But then Howard, let's make this more important. Let's fast forward to 2020 and co 19. It is very clear that the disproportionate burden that we've seen were one out of 600 blacks in this country dead due to CO 19. And as we speak, the risk of death is still nearly threefold higher for blacks compared to Asians and whites really gets localized as David and Lisa have so carefully and thoughtfully put in press to place not race. And it is the marginalization of those communities, the disinvestment that has led to such a social and health disadvantage that the vulnerability to something like co 19 a pandemic was unavoidable. So I think if our first tenant in this discussion today is to establish the validity of structural racism done. Lisa, a lot of your work has actually been on healthcare disparities and you talked about that. H how c can you just talk about the relationship? I I think people are sometime sometimes struggle about the relationship between structural racism in society and in medicine and healthc care disparities. Could could you say how you think about that? Sure. I mean, I think, you know, when we think about racism that exists on a societal level, um, it's it's sort of the way people have been trained and thought trained to think over like centuries about people of color and particularly about African-Americans. And so, it influences a lot of the beliefs and attitudes about people on a cultural level. And so, when you get into health care, healthcare is not a vacuum, right? it's it's a product of the larger society. So in addition to those structural factors we have, we also have attitudes and behaviors that people within health care bring into those interactions that they have with one another and with their patients. And so it's not as if we're immune to those things either. So we uh because of those beliefs and stereotypes that exist on a broader societal level in addition to you know the hierarchies that exist within our organizations. Those kinds of things influence the way we interact with one another. And they influence the power structures, the power differential between those who are, you know, in leadership roles and those who are the ones that are providing more of the service and frontline work and those who are actually up trying to obtain care. So all those dynamics play a part in our interpersonal relationships and we've actually studied you know interpersonal relationships in healthcare and found that you know patients experience poor communication patients of color experience poor communication with their physicians especially when it's a physician of a different race or ethnic or ethnicity. uh we found that you know physicians of color experience harassment and biased treatment from their colleagues and from their supervisors and hireups and even oftentimes from patients. So, you know, to say that structural racism doesn't influence interpersonal racism is is is a complete, you know, fallacy because it it does. That the the structural factors and the broader cultural factors provide the context for which, you know, interpersonal relationships can develop and the way they are shaped. David, do you have an idea why the term racism is so charged for white people like me. It it it's it's just a charged term and I don't know how to get to a conversation sometimes. You you are absolutely right, Howard. It is a charged term. Um there is research that indicates that um most white Americans believe that racism is a thing of the past, that racism, the problem of racism in America was solved with Martin Luther King in the 1960s. Um and and that we have moved on uh beyond that. We we saw a crescendo of of those beliefs when Barack Obama was elected president of the United States that America had now moved into a post-racial society uh was the belief. In fact, what research indicates is that white Americans overestimate the degree of racial equality that exists. In other words, the reality of racial inequality. For example, in 2018, African-American households earned 59 cents for every dollar of income white households earned. Identical to the racial gap in 1978, 1978. The PTA of the narrowing of the black white gap. We got it to 59 cents. And in 2018, it's 59 cents. Most white Americans believe that there's much more racial equality than actually exists. And strikingly enough, and I'm just reporting a scientific finding, the overestimation is strongest among highly educated whites. So, David, let me chime in here because you really bring something to the table that's very important. I went to medical school in 1978. The number of black men who attended medical school in 1978 is the same number of black men who attended medical school in 2019. That is a statement of fact. Yeah. So how could there not have been a change? How could there not have been some impediment? At a minimum, there should have been secular changes, but none such occurred. So it argues that there are barriers almost impenetrable that still exist. And I I think the other point, Howard, that's important to keep in mind is that um most white Americans today endorse the principle of equality. Uh they they support and and there is public opinion survey data. One of my colleagues, Larry Bobo, has shown that that you can see massive trends over time where in 1958, for example, most whites in America believe that white people should have the first chance at any job and blacks should just wait in line. That that was a belief of the majority of whites in the United States. And by the early 70s, you saw only less than 10% of whites endorsed that view. So, so the endorsement of the principle of equality um is is widespread within the white population. At the same time, what the research shows while there is overwhelming support for the principle of equality, there is much less support for policies that would actually implement equality. So it's almost like I mean some call it lizair racism that that if you can have equality on your own we're not opposed to that but no sacrifice on my part no cost to me it shouldn't affect me or or my opportunities in in any way. So that that endorsement of the principle of equality leads most white people to think I am not racist because I am supportive of equality for all even while we live in a very unequal society and we are often unwilling to support the policies that would address the inequality the stock inequalities that persist. Lisa h have the [clears throat] events of the last year led us to an inflection point? Is there going to be something different in five years or or or or different in 10 years? I I grew up in the 60s and 70s I I is the Black Lives Matter movement the the stark uh disparities around COVID only uh uh once again magnifying issues around disparities and equity. Is there an infle have we reached an inflection point? I I certainly hope so. You know, I think that we've reached other inflection points in the past, but I would say that, you know, in particular the the murder of George Floyd, um, which was so widely circulated globally and nationally, and the fact that it was it was such a clear picture of what basically what happens on a much broader scale and maybe on a much not as dramatic of of a level. And I think when people are able to see how uh unjust some of the things are that occur in our society and to empathize with what it would be like to be in that position themselves, I think that does shift attitudes uh in a dramatic way. But I think that, you know, it's very easy for us to go back to what we typically do in our daily lives and to become outraged about a particular event, but not to really be more self-reflective about how our own decisions and choices and the way the policies we support might affect other people. So I think that's one thing we really have to keep in mind with this is that you know yes this is an opportunity but it's also a moment for us to remember that it's not only about those episodes that are so blatant and that everyone you know is able to observe but it's about the everyday issues that go on and it's about the way we allow um you know people to to have opportunities and to not have opportunities. um based on you know just based on who they are or where they were born and if we we continue to do that then we won't see change. So I think we really have to to take this opportunity that is really what it is to really take a closer look and also not to not to sort of let ourselves off the hook. Each person really needs to look in and see, you know, which part am I playing in this? And and really not only on our individual behaviors, but the organizations we work within and that we associate with. Hold those leaders accountable, you know, for the decisions they make that might impact our communities in a harmful way. Clyde, let me leverage your concept of each person. I too am a child of the late 50s and the 60s and I have vivid recall of some horrific experiences. But what's different now compared to then is that the each person is multi-racial, multicultural, multithnic from all different domains in life. The main reason we're having this discussion today is because there was a righteous uproar from the social community, not just one group, but from many people who said that is not good. That is not okay. And the fact that so many people are able to stand up and say this is not okay. That is the inflection point about which you're speaking about. It is the path forward. It is the moment in time where there are more people aligned with this thought of as David said not just the principle of fairness and equity but some action that follow how durable will this moment be will policy follow this those are the unanswered questions but I think we're here today because that each person you talked Lisa stepped up in response and and Howard I want to go back to to when Congress voted to ask the Institute of Medicine, it was called at the time now the National Academy of Medicine to answer a very simple question. When African-Americans and other minorities enter healthc care context in the United States, does your race determine the quality of care that you received? And I was one of the persons who served on that committee that produced the famous unequal treatment report that documented across virtually every therapeutic intervention from the most simple to the most complicated African-Americans receive poorer quality care than whites. And it's shocking the what's even more shocking is that if you look at recent uh reviews of the literature, the pattern still persists. And I do not believe that most health care providers wake up every morning and think what am how am I going to get my black patients today but but that is what is happening. They are getting uh poorer quality care. So that within the health care system there's a lot that has to be done in terms of raising awareness levels that that this problem exists and then providing the skills and the training and and the diversity and and so forth [clears throat] that that Lisa was talking about to to reduce the chances um that that these inequities would persist in the United States. Otis Browley wrote a piece for us that actually has gotten a fair amount of traction called cancer justice. And he he describes the black white difference in uh screening for prostate cancer, screening for breast cancer and screening for colarctal carcinoma. And it's 10 to 20 percentage points between black and white adults. And he said, "This isn't complicated. This isn't new science. This isn't new technology. It's a renewed commitment and and to measure it so we know are we are we making progress in in in closing that in closing that gap. I I have two final questions. I I know both all three of you your time is precious. Lisa, um I if you could hone down on one or two things that you think medicine needs to do, David, for you it's going to be society, but but for Lisa it's for you it's medicine. What do you think the one or two things that you think we need to do within the health care system? Well, you know, um, Howard, I would say the first thing would be to really make a a clear commitment to this issue. Um, and to hope take some response responsibility for our part in it. I think that's the first step. And I think so I think making it clear that addressing health equity in communities of color and in many of our institutions are situated in the midst of those communities doing you know world famous research and you know cutting edge health care but not necessarily looking out for the populations that are right around us. So I think making that making a commitment to those communities and being very explicit about it, you know, raising the health equity work to the level of other issues that we face in health care, patient safety, quality, but we, you know, equity somehow gets shifted somewhere else in that picture. Equity should be raised to the same level, given the same resources. The data ought to be tracked with the same sort of excellence and precision, you know, and monitored. People ought to be held accountable for equity, for showing equity or improvements in, you know, reductions in disparities in certain populations over time. that those are starting points and I think critically important to work in partnership with our community partners because clearly we're not responsible for everything that happens to our communities and we aren't necessarily even the best equipped to address all of their problems but we do have partners who can assist in that. So, if we can do a good job of understanding our communities, knowing what their needs are, and working with those who are out there to help our patients address those issues that are outside of the realm of health care that we know are getting in the way of them being healthy, and also helping people who are out there stay healthy and not have to get sick enough to come and see us. I think that's those are the the starting points. David, the broader society, the broader US society, we need to make a commitment to dismantle the systems of inequality that are producing the inequality that exists. Lisa and I wrote a paper reviewing the evidence of what can be done to address racial inequities in in care and and we talk about the need to create what we call communities of opportunity. um uh communities where we we re eliminate the negative effects of residential segregation. And I think it's important to make the point that there's the problem of residential segregation is not residential segregation per se. There's nothing negative about living next to people of your own race. So it's it's it's it's not the the living next to people of your own race. It's the clustering of social ills and the absence of opportunity in these communities, the disinvestment uh as Clyde so eloquently talked about earlier. And so what what does that mean? We we need to have an emphasis on on workforce strategies that that enable people to earn a living wage to take care of their family. We need placebased solutions that that improve the quality of neighborhood and housing environments. And we have high quality scientific evidence that if you just improve neighborhood quality, no health intervention, you lead to improvements in health from randomized control trials shows that that's possible. And and and what we do for the next generation by creating opportunities, early childhood centers and and highquality elementary schools that put individuals on a trajectory for academic success so that they can compete and go to medical school. But if you go to a school where you don't get the background, you don't get the training, you're not prepared to to go to medical school. So I I think there's a lot that we can do as a society, I sometimes say we need a Marshall plan in the United States for disadvantaged communities. We need to make that kind of investment. And one important point, the research is also clear that if we only do this, it would save the United States economy billions of dollars a year because we would be creating a more productive workforce. We'd have a more um uh competitive uh economy in the world. So, it's all it's in all of our interests to to invest so that every American child can live the American dream. Clyde, when you when you hear Lisa talk about healthc care specifically and then uh David about the the broader society, h how do you think about it visav being a cardiologist and your position at Northwestern? So, let me be very clear, Lisa. I want to [clears throat] echo what you just said. Equity should be the new metric of professionalism. That is a takeaway for anyone listening to this podcast. Equity should be a new metric of professionalism. And David, without question, as we are trying to reinvent our society, our economy, a Marshall plan, which is akin to what we've done to disseminate vaccines needs to be developed, eliminate appropriate determinance of health that penetrate all communities. Now Har when I think about the broader context of what we discussed and how this intersects cardiovascular care, more importantly cardiovascular health, we really become the bellweather moment because we represent still the predominant disease that inflicts suffering and even death in our communities. If I have a lifelong commitment to reduce the burden of cardiovascular disease, and I do, I can no longer afford to ignore not only social policy, but public policy because all policy has a health consequence. If I really do champion best outcomes for cardiovascular diseases, then I can't let one group of patients start off with greater burdens of disease than another group and expect everyone to behave the same. What has become so abundantly clear, especially with cardiovascular disease, is that we cannot deconstruct these very important aspects of social science and public health from cardiovascular physiology and ultimately cardiovascular diseases. It is so clear now that there are intersections between the community, inflammation and the burden of disease. There are consequences of the life and living certain whether it's population density, access to fresh fruits and vegetables, transportation to facilities, even access to a pharmacy. We now have pharmacy deserts. So if I'm trying to advocate best care for patients and they're not able to an approximate location acquire what's necessary, change the natural history of their disease model. Then all the research, all the science, everything we've written is for not because there's no way to implement it. This increasingly interconnected interfacing world that we have now no longer allows us to take the comfort of science and clinical medicine and stay in that space and say I need you to do this, this and this. We have to become expansive thinkers and realize all the different places that in my world at least really exercise the levers on cardiovascular disease. So I'll finish by saying yes ethics it's the new metric of professionalism. Yes, we need a Marshall plan to address the health in our communities. And yes, there is such intersectionality now between cardiovascular medicine, social sciences, and public health that we can no longer afford to work in the silo. Final question for each of you. Um, Lisa, all three of you write for medical journals, you also write for other journals, but you have all written for JAMA. As I said, David wrote a stunning piece with uh Ron Wyatt in in 2015. Um uh Clyde uh you you're on the uh senior leadership of of Jamba Cardiology. Um Lisa, what what can journals do? What can we do better? What can journals do? So I think journals have to do what every what we were saying everyone else in society needs to do is to take a look within um look at yourselves and your practices and policies. Look at who's on your editorial boards. Look at um what kinds of articles are you actually like reviewing and uh accepting that are related to this topic. You know, how are you engaging the broader community in this conversation and helping to move the not only the science forward but also changes in health policy and practice forward. So really looking at your portfolio and looking at the people who are submitting to to you you know and as leaders in the field really um making sure that this issue is front and center and that people don't forget about it and the fact you know holding people accountable for doing the science with the same level of rigor and excellence that we expect from for every other topic and at the same time really encouraging that work to be done you know and um you know engaging in people and asking people to offer their perspectives and opinions on these issues seeking out experts you know so I those are the suggestions I have David yes I I I agree with Lisa that journals are powerful gatekeepers and and they also shape they they create um the science by by emphasizing opportunities for science in particular areas and historically and this is not a medical journal. I'll tell you a story about a social science journal, I think 25 years ago, writing a paper on racial discrimination and and health. One of the reviewers for a social science journal said the term racism does not belong in a scientific paper. He or she went on to explain that racism was an ideological concept that cannot be measured. So that was thinking even in among at least some luckily for me the editor said disregard this reviewer's comment respond to the other issues but but it just illustrates where the field was even in the social sciences um just less than three decades ago. Um and so journals can play an an enormous role. Um it's a platform you you can shine a light on on important topics. you can have special issues, you can elevate um important issues. And I I I certainly think that in in in in this pandemic dealing with COVID 19, look at what JAMAMA has done in terms of raising awareness levels of COVID 19, the social context, the role of race and racism. I mean, Lisa and I have written for you. Clyde has written for you. Um and and I think uh some of that has happened because we've been invited to write on these topics. So journals can play and have played a powerful important role. Clyde, you're a a deputy editor at JAMA Cardiology. You know, Bob is a friend and the and the editor. Um you see the content every week. You you really live it every week. Uh because I know the volume of manuscripts you've gotten. What's your sense of like the role of JAMA, the role of JAMA cardiology? No. Howard, thanks for giving me the license to respond through the lens of being a senior editor in the J network. And I think the first thing we have to acknowledge is the importance of ownership. What we do as scientists, as clinicians, as editors is an imperfect discipline. And when we have a misstep, we need to exercise ownership, which we are doing today. Second, acknowledgement. We only get better when we get feedback. Sometimes the feedback is hard to digest. Sometimes it's harshly critical. Sometimes it's praiseworthy. Regardless, we get better when we get feedback and when we accept that feedback and agree to act on it as we're doing right now. But the other part that is so fundamental about what we do is this ethos that you helped to establish, Howard, but that we all share within the GEMA network. It's our search for ground truth. We hold the data accountable. We hold the authors accountable. We hold ourselves as editors accountable. Our entire current is the ability to publish that which we believe at the time based on best evidence is true. If we can continue to do that and really make an unyielding commitment that what we will do is own our experience, have the courage to accept feedback, acknowledge others, thank them for feedback, and then continue to with our fail seek the ground truth and publish that for which we have the strongest conviction. and we're executing a very valuable service in helping the community understand the direction medicine is going and the things we need to do to get to a different place. I um in closing, I I once again want to recognize um the tremendous pain uh that the tweet and the podcast um cause. The responsibility is mine. Um, and uh, we're looking at uh, everything that JAMA does, process decisions about who does podcasts um, to make sure something like that never ever happens again. Uh, Lisa Cooper, Bloomberg, Distinguished Professor Equity and Healthc Care, Professor of Medicine, John's Hopkins. David Williams, Florence and Lauren Norman, Professor of Public Health, Chair, Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard University. Clyde Yansy Maggardstead, professor, vice dean for diversity, inclusion, chief of cardiology, professor of medicine, Northwestern Fineberg School of Medicine. Um, I just can't thank the three of you enough. It was an education for me. I I try I try to listen. I know I can do a better job, but I really want to thank the three of you. This is Howard Bachner, editor-inchief of JAMA, and this has been Conversations with Dr. Bachner focused on structural racism in society and in medicine. Thank you. You Thank you.