 and alfalfa. From the JAMA Network, this is JAMA Dermatology Author Interviews. Conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research reviews and opinions featured in JAMA Dermatology. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to JAMA Dermatology Author Interviews. Thanks for joining us. I'm Dr. Aday Adamson, the Web Editor for JAMA Dermatology and the host of this podcast episode. Sunscreen is an important tool for limiting skin photo damage and for the primary prevention of skin cancer among at-risk populations. As a result, many public health and dermatology organizations promote daily sunscreen use to reduce potential harm from both acute and chronic ultraviolet exposure. However, sunscreen products vary widely in price, even among formulations with similar sun protection factor coverage. In a new study published in JAMA Dermatology, authors sought to evaluate how the cost of recommended sunscreen use differs depending on product price and the incorporation of other sun protective behaviors. Dr. Maria Wei is a professor in the Department of Dermatology at the University of San Francisco School of Medicine. She is the senior author of this new study and is here to discuss this work and its potential implications. Welcome to the podcast, Dr. Wei. Thank you, Dr. Adamson. It's a pleasure to be here. Thanks for the invitation. I am excited that I have you on the podcast because I've had the pleasure of being able to take care of some patients that have moved from your city, San Francisco, to mine in Austin. So it's also great to finally have a conversation with you on the podcast about not necessarily skin cancer, but skin cancer prevention. Yes, I'm so happy that I have such a wonderful person to refer my patients to down in Austin. And we've had the pleasure of meeting. And so it's lovely to chat with you this morning. Do you mind telling the audience that may not know your role at UCSF, but what you do, what your specialty is in terms of both research and clinically? I am a professor of dermatology and I specialize in skin cancer, specifically melanoma, the most aggressive skin cancer. And I direct one of the melanoma clinics at UCSF at the Cancer Center. So I'm very interested in preventing skin cancer. And sunscreen is a cold standard chemo prevention of skin cancer and photo aging. So very interested in how people use that and whether or not it's effective. Yeah. And there are a lot of sunscreens out there on the market that range in price points, depending on what brand they are, their formulations. And it can be quite confusing, I think, to some patients and everyday people that want to engage in primary prevention of skin cancer or photo aging. Is this what inspired the study? Yes. When I talk with my patients, I always ask them, what are you doing currently for sun protection? And the number one answer is always sunscreen. That's the go to. And understandably, it's easy. It's convenient. And it has a lot of press as to being very effective. So I was fairly interested in how people were using it because studies have shown that in the past, most people don't apply enough. And it turns out that you need a specific amount applied to the skin to achieve the SPF, the sun protective factor that's listed on the container. So for example, if it's listed as SPF 50, you have to put a certain amount to actually achieve that protection. And the amount is actually two milligrams per centimeter squared. But what does that actually mean in day to day use? This translates into approximately a half teaspoon of sunscreen to each arm and to the entire head, and one teaspoon to the front torso, to the back torso, and each leg gets one teaspoon. But it turns out that on average, studies have shown that most people use half of the required amount. And it turns out also that the relationship between amount applied and the SPF is not linear. So let's say you have an SPF 25 sunscreen, and you're using half the recommended amount, you're actually getting SPF seven protection, you're not getting 12.5. So I was interested in seeing what might be the barriers to using the correct amount of sunscreen. And one of those might be cost exactly. Yeah. And that's also another question that gets asked by patients, which sunscreen should I use? Which one is the best? And normally what I tell my patients, it's the one that is broad spectrum SPF, at least 30, but preferably 50 or above, that you're willing to use on a regular basis. I don't know if you have a response to your patients. That's exactly what I say. I say the best one is the one that you'll use. And it's very personal because each sunscreen has a different texture. It has a different liquidity. Some are pretty thick and some are liquidy. They have different scents. And in addition, they have different prices. And that's the factor that we were really focusing on in this study. One important caveat listeners should probably know about your study is the three sunscreens that you selected were lotions. Why did you make that distinction? Why not look at sprays as an example or other formulations? Why stick to lotions? As well as lotions, there are other formulations such as sprays and powders out there. We didn't look at those. We didn't look at either of those because it's very difficult to quantitate how much is put on the skin using those modalities. Then when you use a spray, if you wanted to get the correct amount on, you really have to put the nozzle very close to the skin and you essentially have to drench the skin so that you are wet with the sunscreen. Most people won't do that. We also feel that it's difficult to use a spray. You need to do it in a well ventilated area. And you should not spray it on your face. One of the sites we were looking at was the face as well as the arm. So we just stuck to lotions and sunscreens because it was a little bit more consistent in terms of how to do the study. And it's also, to be fair, probably what most people use, lotions. The vast majority of people use lotions. And as a matter of fact, when we did the study, we asked people to bring in their own sunscreens and nobody brought in a spray sunscreen. Everybody brought in lotions. Yeah, you were trying to figure out across a variety of sunscreens that had similar formulations, but differing prices. What actually is the cost of applying sunscreen on a regular basis? Is that a fair assessment of what you were trying to get at with the study? Yes, what we did was we went to two data sources. One was the annual consumer reports evaluation of sunscreens. They put it out every year and we use the 2025 version to identify sunscreens and the ingredients and the level of ingredients. So we looked at SPF 50 sunscreens that had very similar levels of active ingredients. Those are Avalbenzone, Homo salate, Octa salate, and Octocrylene. And then we went to see the prices online and we went to Walgreens website because they have a large number of sunscreens and they tend to be the lowest price out there. So we chose three sunscreens. One was the least expensive sunscreen, SPF 50. One was the median price and one was the most expensive. And we found that the price spread was quite large. It was 17.5 fold difference. It's almost 20 fold difference between unit price. That's quite a bit. And to remind the audience, this is for sunscreens that have a fairly similar formulation as it relates to their SPF of the same, but the ingredients in their formulation was essentially the same or similar. That's right. You could say that this is as close as you can get. From a filter perspective, so we're talking about the UV filters. Not necessarily all of the other fragrances or how they actually formulate the entire product. That's right. You bring up a really great point. So the price point might be determined, for example, by the vehicle. What are all the active ingredients put into to put onto your skin and also the fragrance, obviously. In our case, the active ingredients varied by like two to 3%. So two to 3% Aval Benzone, 10 to 15% Homo Salet, 4 to 5% Octasalate and 7 to 8% Octosyrene. So very close. So you would pretty much be able to say that these three sunscreens functionally have the same effect. In terms of photo protection. That's right. And they differ widely in price. So that was really something surprising that we found this really wide difference in price. And the next what we did was we calculated what would be the cost of using each of these three differently priced sunscreens in different use scenarios. So for example, people wear clothes differently in different seasons and for different purposes. And we looked at if you use long sleeves versus short sleeves, short pants versus long pants and hats versus no hats. We looked at if you're at the beach for a week, for example, if you're wearing shorts only or bikini only. We looked at if you work indoors all year round or you work outdoors all year round. And we calculated the cost of using sunscreen for one year for all of these scenarios. And what we found was it was a dramatic cost difference. So the cost varied 37 fold from $39 per year to $1400 a year. Very different. What we found was that it was dramatically different depending on what you were wearing. Just regular clothes. We find that regular clothes can be a good sun protective strategy and wearing a hat. By regular clothes, you mean clothing that covers certain areas of the body. And to provide context for some of the listeners, you didn't calculate putting sunscreen on the entire body and then putting clothing on. It was putting clothing on instead in certain parts of the body and then the exposed parts of the body having sunscreen on that part of the body. And that entered into the calculation. Is that a fair assessment? Yes, that's exactly right. So if you wear long sleeves, you would have less exposed on your arms. You just have the backs of your hands. Compared to if you wear short sleeves where you have most of the arm exposed. And so the more cover up protective clothing that you wear, the less sunscreen you have to apply. And so if you don't like the feel of sunscreen, that would also encourage sunscreen use because less would need to be applied. Do you think the emphasis or maybe over emphasis of sunscreen for primary prevention has some downsides? As I've mentioned, most people on average apply half the amount that's required to achieve the full SPF protection that's on their sunscreen container label. And this might lead people to over rely on sunscreen and misjudge how much protection they're getting. So it may be that they're overly confident when they go out in the sun, thinking they're getting, let's say, SPF 50 protection. Whereas if they're applying half the amount, they're getting less than half that protection. And that may lead to sun damage that is unintended, which might lead to an increased risk in skin cancer. And so I think that perhaps in clinical practice, what might benefit patients would be re emphasis on using clothing and it could be just regular clothing such that no additional expense is incurred, except for maybe purchasing a hat. If people are wearing a hat and de emphasizing sunscreen as the primary sun protective strategy, we can perhaps advocate for both in kind of the Swiss cheese model, right? You have barrier protection like clothing, sunscreen is another way seeking shade another way, emphasizing just that layered approach. But I think you're right that sometimes people may feel overly confident that they're protected when they may not be. And while your study doesn't specifically focus on this, I think what this study does show is that to achieve the adequate protection as listed on the bottle can be really expensive, depending on what product you use. And you can lower that expense if you use these other methods to photo protect. Yes, I think the other clinical practice tip here would be to inform people that there is a recommended amount of sunscreen that needs to be applied. And what that amount is, we actually did a little survey and we found that people knew that you had to put some on to get some effect, but didn't actually know there was a target amount and didn't know what that target amount was. And I think a half a teaspoon, roughly people understand how much that is. And so to give that as a benchmark would help people achieve the amount needed on the exposed areas that they're actually applying sunscreen. And there will be people that will prefer to rely on sunscreen. So knowing that a threshold amount is needed, I think would be very helpful as well. So what I'm hearing from you is that we got a normalized long clothing at the beach. You got to normalize hats everywhere in sun protective clothing. Yes, I tell people that it's great to go to the beach. I don't discourage that. But certainly, for example, staying under an umbrella would be helpful. Swimming with a swim shirt or a sun shirt would be also very helpful. So keeping in mind ways to protect yourself from the sun and yet enjoying your recreational activities. And I think that's a really important point. Sometimes we can be in some spaces extreme about photo protection to the point where we do discourage people from going outside, which has its benefits. So if you're out there exercising or communing with other people, we just want people to do it safely and try to avoid burning or prolonged exposure that might accelerate photo aging. Exactly. Here, and I think probably in Austin is the same situation. Folks had the opportunity really of being outside almost 24 seven. Not quite. I don't know. In the summer here, I don't know about that. But. Oh, yes, you have the temperature. This game will be brutal out here in the summertime. We have pretty much very temperate temperatures. So what we see is a lot of skin damage from sports that are done outside. And so here we do talk about enjoying your sports, but doing it in a sunsafe way. And I think that these tips of using clothing, seeking shade and using sunscreen all together, as you mentioned, is a wonderful way to protect yourself while enjoying yourself. Doing your chosen recreational activity. I think that's a great way to wrap up. I want to thank you, Maria, for being on the podcast and for sharing your expertise on this really important topic. Thank you very much. My pleasure. I am Dr. Adei Adamson and I've been speaking with Dr. Maria Way about sunscreen use, product pricing, as well as various topics related to sunscreen and sun exposure. You can find a link to the paper in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stephens at the JAMA Network. To follow this and other JAMA Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamminetworkaudio.com or search for JAMA Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. Catch you on the next episode of the JAMA Dermatology podcast. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.