>> Welcome to the last panel, which is, remember, which is just absolutely going to be sweet. These old men who were, as I say, 25, 26 when The House of God came out are the central core of our group. Now, just, I've got three very quick slides. Who's that? Does anybody recognize that? That was Bergman, as he was known in those days. I got so bored being an internship that I got expert at making these arcs of paper cups. And that's Eat My Dust Eddie took that picture in the on-call room. But that's me. I'm just second slide. Hey, the circles are upper left Chuck, when you move along, Shem or Bergman, and the next one, Hyper Hooper with that lovely California haircut. And then on the right, if you go along with the Pancho Villa mustache, that's the runt. And there is an NYU guy, Bob Press, okay? Actually, that, there was no one else. Oh, Eat My Dust Eddie refused. I don't know where he was. He refused to even be part of this. And then the final, oh, all right, these guys don't know about these slides, the last slide is very, very special. You guys can recall who it is. Now, this is on rounds, okay? And this is the chief, whose name I will not say, who's examining a patient. Look at those hands. Those are arachnodactyly fingers, right? This is a photo from the obituary in the Boston Globe of the Chief of Medicine, the lego, okay? This is and it's a beautiful honorable obituary, a whole page, right? I read it avidly. And then I looked at it a little more closely. Who is in back of the chief smiling on the right hand side? Chuck. Who is next to him smiling with that California haircut? That's Hyper Hooper. And who leaning in the doorway with a mixture of doubt and repugnance is me? He hated me. The last person he would want in his obituary was me. Do you believe it? That's all the slides. So, to introduce these, all of these people, I'm going to read their brief, a brief description of them from the House of God. Okay, first is Barry. Janet Surry, who is my partner, my spouse, a long time, is a model for Barry. And this is at the beginning of the book. Barry, a clinical psychologist, was curled up with Freud. "Help, help," Roy said. "Roy, you really are in terrible shape starting the internship." "How bad is it," Roy said? "Bad. Last week, I hospitalized a patient who was found curled up under the covers just like that, and he was less anxious than you. Can you hospitalize me?" "Do you have insurance?" "Not until I start my internship." "Then you'd have to go to the state facility." "What should I do? I've tried everything and I'm still scared to death." "Try denial." "Denial?" "Yes, a primitive defense. Deny that it exists." The next one I will read is the character Chuck, who is Walter Eades over there. Okay, this is the first day after they had a miserable discussion with the chief of medicine. Chuck and I had poured a good deal of bourbon and beer into our bodies and had gotten to the point of laughing. Chuck had grown up dirt poor in Memphis. I inquired as to how from this humble beginning he had gotten to the pinnacle of academic medicine, the BMS affiliated House of God. "Well, man, you see, it was like this. One day when I was a senior in high school in Memphis, I got this postcard from Oberlin College, and it said, "want to go to college in Oberlin? If so, fill out and return this card." That was it, man. That was all. No college board test. No application. No nothing. And so I did it. Next thing I know, I get this letter saying I've been accepted. Full scholarship, four years. What made you decide to go to medical school? Same thing, man, same exact thing. In my senior year, I get this postcard from the University of Chicago. Want to go to medical school in Chicago? If so, fill out and return this card. No medical board test. So, there it is, and here I am. "And what about the House of God," I said. "Same thing, man. Same exact thing. Senior year, postcard, want to be an intern in the House of God? There it is. Something else, eh? Well, you sure put one over on him, I said. I thought I did, but, you know, seeing these pitiful patients and all, I think those guys sending me the postcards knew all along I was trying to fool them by getting all of this, so they fooled me by giving it all to me. My old man was right. The first postcard was my downfall. I should have joined the Army." You told me that story. True story. Okay, Eat My Dust Eddie. Richard Anderson, Richard Anderson, Eat My Dust Eddie. I had to find one that wasn't too damaging to his current reputation in his kosher job, which I won't mention. Okay, sitting around the room that first day was a giant of a guy with a bushy red beard wearing a black leather motorcycle jacket and wraparound sunglasses twirling a black motorcycle hat on his finger. Far out. And then a little later, when they encounter a few gomers in the hallway, I asked, I asked Chuck, "what do you think of this?" And Chuck said, "man, it's pitiful." And looming over us was a giant with a black motorcycle gear. This is true. He put on his black jacket again and said to us, "guys, in my medical school in California, I never saw anybody as old as this. I'm going home to my wife." He turned, walked back down the corridor and disappeared into the down elevator. On the back of his black motorcycle jacket was spelled out in shiny brass studs, Eat My Dust Eddie. You had to be there. Okay, ah, Hyper Hooper. Oh, my gosh. Dave Haber, you can look at his all these guys, they've got remarkable biographies. And it's unbelievable. Okay, Hyper Hooper. [ Inaudible ] And so I was working on a patient in the emergency. Hooper was, I heard Hooper battling a gomer behind the next curtain. The gomer, his third admission of the night was trying to kick him in the nuts. I asked Hooper how it was going. Terrible. MOR, Roy, MOR. MOR, marriage on rocks. We're both doing everything we can doing the California style sauna where they whip you with eucalyptus leaves and give you some aqua nude group psychotherapy. But I don't think it's going to work. Little woman as mad as hell that I'm here all the time, and I'm into death. You're into death? Who isn't? It's where we're all headed, you know? I can't deny that. But I guess I don't get the charge out of it that you do. "It doesn't matter," said Hooper. "No kids. In California, being married two years means you've hit the median. Hey, I've got a question for you. Do you think it's legal to have this woman sign her own postmortem permission slip along with her insurance voucher? It's probably legal, but I'm not sure it's ethical." "Great," said Hooper. "Another post coming. In Sausalito, nobody has heard of ethics." "Hey, thanks. I didn't want to stay married to her anyway. You should see what I've got simmering down in the ward. In the morgue, sorry, in the morgue, in the morgue. In the morgue," I said, "these things happen routinely all the time. In the morgue, a female pathology resident from Israel, dynamite, grooves on Thanatos like me. Romeo and Juliet, man, so long." Okay? >> Well >> Poetic license. And last, the runt. That's John Ritvo, noted psychiatrist now. Okay, supported by Eat My Dust Eddie and Hyper Hooper was the runt coming to the 10:00 meal. But with that same shot out of a cannon look as Potts. Harold the Runt Runtsgy had been a friend of mine through four years at the VMS. Blah, blah, blah. Now the runt looked diffused. His mustache drooped. As he sat down, he took out a pill box, put a pill on his hamburger and munched it down. When I asked what it was, he said, "Valium, Vitamin D. I've never been so nervous in my life." Were you on call last night? Nope, tonight. Hooper was on call last night. When I asked Hooper how it had been, he got that same gleam in his eye as he had gotten at the autopsy stuff, and he giggled, great, just great. Two deaths, one permission for the postmortem. Watch it in the morning. Fantastic. "Does the Valium help," Potts asked the runt. "It makes me feel kind of sleepy, but I feel pretty unflappable. I'm writing orders for it for all my patients." "What," I said. "As you're poor, putting all of them on the Valium too?" "Why not?" "They're all very nervous having me as their doctor." Here they are. Okay. [ Applause ] All right, varies, it starts. Each of us will give a little >> Say something? >> Say something, yeah. >> Say something. Who would have thought, right? >> Keep it, keep it brief, okay? >> Don't worry. >> I guess I just want to say I have had I was there 40 years ago visiting from the outside looking in and charting these 40 years by your side. And I just feel like this book has been a phenomenon. It's really hard as something to pin down. Is it true? Is it not true? It's fiction. It is fiction. You called it fiction of resistance. But in that realm, we're sort of half, it's half true and it's half not. It's truer than true. I think satire, as we've come to talk about it, and as you've mentioned, is really, in some sense, by humor, by exaggeration, there's some truth that gets across that might not with just plain narrative. And I think, you know, I think of the Publishers Weekly putting the ten best satires in western history literature, and House of God was two. And Steve says, "why? What's wrong with one?" That was Don Quixote. But I think that sort of, not to miss, and this is why I love the medicine and humanities program here. Not to miss, this is fiction, and we all sort of have been characters in fiction. So, I know what it's like to be someone just asked for my autograph as Barry, you know, and it's just, like Sham, it's half real and half not real for all of us. And all of us have lived our lives also being characters in this book. And I think people can speak to that. But I just want to say this journey of 40 years from the publication watching you in the hospital, watching you reading this, to all these guys sitting there drinking and smoking and reading and laughing and processing the year, you know, watching the book come out, going from that wedding to book come out, you were surprised when people were angry at you. [ Laughter ] But I also have watched this sort of 40 years, and I remember so vividly you reading me this letter you got. I'm an intern, a resident at the VA in Memphis. And if I didn't have your book here, I'd kill myself. This kind of sense of having been heard, having a truth told, I've heard so many people you still get three or four e mails a day from people all over the world that have been touched and triggered and sense of being not so crazy, that some things got told. I think of the student in Germany who said to you, how could you have been so courageous to speak out. What was it? Now, when I think of so many voices and just sitting in the seminar with you at NYU, watching the really deep processing going on of this, what is true, what's still true, what's the universal, you know? And I think watching you come to, as an artist, as a writer, coming to find your voice as a writer, as well as your voice as a healer in the world. I've been at many 50 graduation, medical graduations where Steve has spoken. I've been all over the world at events on how to stay humanin medicine so that that dialogue, this conversation has been going for 40 years. What an amazing experience to see all of that. And I just have also, you know, been watching as a partner and as a co writer and a co parent and a life partner, and just really beautiful to watch this whole unfolding. And it's really wonderful to have this opportunity and to feel like, you know, this time at NYU too has been, you being recognized for all these things, and having an opportunity to really meet and touch and empower young students here is pretty wonderful. So, it's great to be with all of you again. It's kind of amazing, poignant, touching, just deeply touching. The friendships, the camaraderie, this kind of sense of having been not only in a time of life together, but in a book together that's been read three million copies. >> So, first of all, grab a microphone. So, first of all, let me just say that I deny everything, even the parts that are true. But I think, you know, there's been a lot of discussion today about what's true and what's not true, and Janet referred to that as well. But I think, I think some of that discussion I think actually misses the point. Emotionally, it's all true. And if that were not so, we wouldn't be here today. The book wouldn't be in its 40th printing. It wouldn't have sold three million copies. So, yes, so, is each incident a biblical exegesis? Well, it probably is roughly as faithful as the Bible. But there are historical antecedents at least that are transmuted by the writer's gift into memorable writing. I mean, Steve is a brilliant writer. No one can question that. And a lot of the humor comes from his recounting of the episodes. But it is also true that gallows humor was the currency of our relationships. And it was the way that we coped. And we did need to cope because it was a difficult environment. This was 1973. So, remember back, Vietnam War, many of our friends and colleagues were in Vietnam or had served in Vietnam, and we had the privilege of medical deferments, and we were quite aware of that. But on the other hand, this, but this was our battlefield, and we weren't, we weren't being targeted, and there's a big difference obviously. Nobody was shooting at us. But the people dying around us were legend. And I think that's the emotional truth that's in the book. There is, there's another issue that I want to do just very briefly. I mean, there's a lot of, there's obviously a lot of, people describe it differently, but cynicism was a word that was used. Certainly rage and anger is on almost every page. But I think it's very important to understand that that was our coping mechanism, to deal with our impotence in the face of human suffering. Had we been called or indifferent to the suffering around us, we wouldn't have had those reactions, and we wouldn't have felt them so strongly, and they wouldn't have been so terrifying. And, again, I think that's a truth, an emotional truth that is very much true in medicine today. I mean, there's, of course, scientific medicine in the wonders of medicine. Of course, of course. And one can certainly argue that medical and science is one of the highest achievements and one of the defining achievements of humanity. At the same time, I think most of us are acutely aware of its limitations. And so this is a book that touches on some of the achievements, but focuses more on the limitations. And those limitations are every bit as true today. Every bit. Slightly transmuted, but every bit as true today as they were 40 years ago. And there's no particular reason to believe they're not going to be every bit as true 20 years from now unless we change the way that we provide medical care. You know, Dr. Sherone asked a very challenging and provocative question, which is, why don't we all do more? And I was thinking of what my answer to that question could be. And the best I can do is answer her question with a question. And that is, why are the problems so widespread almost universally perceived in both quality of medical care and the depersonalization of medicine? I think when we get to answering that question, we'll get closer to the answer about why we all individually and collectively don't do more. So, I think, I think that's what I wanted to say. So, thank you for this. >> Want me to go next? >> Yeah, this is the runt, John Ritvo. >> Yeah, and that was, that was a bit of poetic license that he took with my name, because in the internship, I was called The Ritz. But I think I said in another setting, I think it probably did capture some of my immaturity and vulnerability at the time, and maybe still. And I guess I'll speak a more personal narrative. Yes, I was terribly anxious. The Valium is also a bit of poetic license. The closest I came to taking Valium was coming onto Ward 6 South from my vacation in September, and Steve had written on the board general orders to the nurses to give Dr. Ritvo 10 milligrams of IM Valium on arrival on the ward. [ Laughter ] And, you know, personally, for me, the book, well, the experience, first of all, was, you know, very personally important in terms of maturation and overcoming my anxiety really as a doctor and as a professional. And we, just as Roy has described as terribly anxious before the, in the beginning of his internship, I was probably tenfold as anxious as he was. The idea that people's lives were depending on me, and that, and the fear that something I might miss, or something I didn't do in all the hubbub and being in a million and one directions, would lead to someone dying was terrifying. And I was, for the first couple months, I was really running around like a chicken with my head cut off. And that was what Steve was prescribing Valium for. And, you know, I think both Steve and my fellow interns were responsible for both keeping me together and helping me overcome that. And I, I don't know that Steve directly said that, but I think I understood from him, and maybe from the others too, that there were really only a limited number of things that I needed to attend to to make sure my patients lived through the night, and that everything else could be taken care of and thought of by people the next day on rounds. And with that, that analysis of the situation, I think I calmed down quite a bit. Of course, the gallows humor and the camaraderie were also essential to the calming down. And as several of my colleagues have pointed out today, Waldeeds [phonetic], or we knew him as Nick, but he appears in the book as Chuck, had, he had, he had, he was better than Valium. He had such a cool demeanor and seemed so unflappable that and he spoke in such soft and measured tones that, you know, just to hear him talk was calming. And so, you know, I, a reference has been made to the Vietnam War, yeah, this was, this was our Vietnam. It was, you know, it had the trauma, and not of our facing death or of our comrades facing death, but we were facing death all the time in our patients and feeling responsible, or struggling with our responsibility for their mortality. And then on top of that, the incredible fatigue of being, you know, on every other night, yeah, no, it was mostly every third night, there was a final I didn't get to the medical ICU until the end of the year, and that was every other night. So, but, you know, there was really no, there was no time to process any of this with anyone else other than the other guys who were going through it. And I think like a military unit, you know, we revered the heroic experience of people who were our immediate seniors, the junior residents, and, you know, they're amalgamated into the fat man in the book, all of the positive qualities that we loved in the junior residents who we felt knew what we were going through, and they had just been through it before. Everyone else above us, including the senior residents who were, who Steve referred to as the Double O series, or license to kill, were suspect, and seemed, you know, much more concerned about climbing the academic ladder. Okay, that's enough. >> Thank you. Next, you've already heard is Walter Eades. Chuck in the book. >> Well, I see this whole thing as being pretty overwhelming. I didn't realize that what we were doing was going to be that great, coming back to, you know, this, and then to see all these people out here is pretty overwhelming that, you know, that, what we did back then was such a meaningful thing to people today. Most of the time, like Ron said, we were just trying to cope, okay? That was some bad days back, bad times. And one of my primary reasons for getting into medical school was to get out of the Vietnam War. And after being at the BI, it was like being back at war again. And I have to say just one anecdote about Steve, which I thought I should mention, was one day I was working in the ICU, of course every other night, the chief of cardiology's mother was admitted to the ICU. So, I was pretty scared and had a rough night trying to keep her alive until the next day that he was coming in to see her. So, about 2:30 in the morning, Steve comes in, he says, boy, you look bad. I said, it's been a bad night, Steve. He says, hold on. About 10 minutes later, he comes back with a gin and tonic. >> Now, just listening to Walter, I mean, Chuck, you hear his voice and his human Valium, okay? I mean, this guy, you listen to him, you just immediately that's why he's so cool and collected. And the rest of us were frantic. So, I just want to, you know, first of all, I'm very privileged, first of all, to know Steve, because I really feel like I know one of the great authors of the 20 and 21st century with knowing Steve. I really mean that. You know, his ability to observe what was going on in the way that he did was a gift. And I haven't said this before, but our chief of medicine was ready to fire Steve about halfway through the internship. He was so beside himself. But he couldn't fire him because we were the best internship in the United States and there was nothing he could do. So, one day, we had these oh, you people used to go to the NIH for two years and then come back as chief resident. And we had this one guy who was an expert in colonic diseases and stuff. And he had kind of a tight colon himself. And we were all supposed to wear ties every day. So, Steve comes in one day with a turtleneck, and they go, uh, Bergman, where's your tie? Right here, sir. And, you know, you'd find Steve, and we had this interns room with double bunk beds, and Steve would be up in the upper bunk bed talking to his students on the phone going, there's no case you cannot manage from the upper bunk. So, Steve had a lot of wonderful aspects, but I do think we all did care about the patients. And this was kind of our way. Now, I just have to say a quick word about Thanatos and all the death stuff. He made all that up. None of that, none of that, but what I would say is we had a post derby. So, there was a the guy who got the most posts got three free days in Atlantic City as a vacation. And there was another resident or intern by the name of Eric Larson, and he and I, and I beat him by one post, which was totally accidental because, of course, we had no control over who was dying, like we're happy about people dying. But in the book, there's a fistfight between the two of us at the end because Eric had the very first two weeks of vacation and had to work the rest. He really could have used the three days off. And but I think that the post derby and all this was interesting, but I still get asked today by people, are you Hyper Hooper in the book? And so I just want to tell Steve, you know, I've been on study sections and stuff. You're more famous for being in that book than for anything else you'll ever do in your life. So, thank you, Steve. >> All right, can I, can I just add to that story? I surprised you today. You know, he was great at getting autopsies, Hyper Hooper. He was fantastic. And he went to Atlantic City, won the prize of the pathological convention or whatever it was. And I had to take care of his patients. There was this one cardiac guy who was really having, he had had trouble, but I worked all weekend to keep him alive, to keep him alive. Monday morning, Hooper comes back from his vacation, we go on rounds, and we come to this guy's home. He steps at the, Hooper stands at the foot of the bed, says something, the guy has a massive heart attack and dies. >> I just want to say one more thing, because I think one of the things that most, as much as you love all the controversy about this, the thing that was most upsetting was people saying you didn't take care of patients well. And I feel like all of them were just incredibly devoted, and you too, that none of this was about acting out as a doctor. It was all the stuff we've been talking about, but feels like it really needs to be said very clearly. >> You know, we talked quite a bit about relationships. And, I mean, there's something about, at least metaphorically, of battlefront experience that makes for very intense relationships. But we were but I think it's fair to say that we were equally committed to two things. One is we came to Beth Israel with our ideals largely intact. And I can't say that we left with our ideals intact, but certainly we fought to preserve them as hard as we could. So, we were committed to good outcomes. In fact, we had nothing but contempt for physicians that we saw in the hospital who were providing lousy medical care. We had utter contempt for them. And part of that, and part of the rage that you see in the book is expressed for third rate doctors providing fourth rate medicine. The other thing is that in the intensity of those relationships, we took care of each other, not, emotional and so forth, yes, and with humor, but the point of it is when one of us let the next guy, if one of us didn't do our job well, not only are we shortchanging the patient, we were shortchanging the next guy who's taking care of that patient. It's astounding to me that people still get grants today to study the best way to do medical handoffs. It's not that complicated. We did them on three by five cards, and one of us could take care pretty well of a ward of 25 or 30 patients based on a 15 minute handoff. And we wouldn't think of leaving the hospital without doing the handoff. And frankly, we wouldn't think about leaving the hospital in the middle of a patient who was in acute decline and saying, "good luck tonight." So, those are, you know, that's part of the intensity of the experience. And it's part of the intensity of the relationships that you see in the book. >> Okay, should we open it up to questions, comments? Questions, questions are best. [ Inaudible ] >> My question was actually related to the book. And I was just curious, to what extent do people [inaudible] characters inspired? And how has that actually impacted your own practice positively or negatively? >> Well, I'll start off on that. I'd just say people know that I'm Hyper Hooper and they meet me as Hyper Hooper. I immediately deny some of the negative stuff. But one of the sayings I always say is "stay hyper. It's the best defense." Because you have so much to do that they didn't bring up the fact that the attending in the morning expected you to be able to explain all the little details. And when I went out west, one of the chiefs of medicine out there had been an assistant professor at the BI, and he tried to pimp me on some stuff. And I said, "you've definitely got the wrong guy," because I used to read Goodman & Gilman all night, I would stay up all night studying veraciously, and really we had to we were the transportation department. We were the lab. We did the smears. We did the bacterial cultures. I lost five pounds eating five meals a day. And midnight supper was the highlight of our life. I mean, we would sit and we were literally like Saturday Night Live writers going back and forth and jokes and stuff. And Steve wrote everything down, little to our knowledge. He was the Leopold Bloom of Beth Israel Hospital, you know? He was really taking the, you know, the stream of consciousness that we were living and recording it. And it's a priceless, priceless gift that was generalizable everywhere. I went back to California to a county hospital. Same stuff is going on. Go anywhere here, same stuff is going on. It's universal. And so I think it's just a real gift to medicine to have that type of observation. >> Well, I've had two kinds of experiences. Early in my career as a psychiatrist, I had at least one female patient who didn't, didn't want to see me after she learned who I was in the book. Otherwise, in my, in my academic capacity, the director of medical student education for the Department of Psychiatry tells the students coming on my service that I was a character in The House of God, so they asked me about it. And I my usual response is read the book carefully, and I think you'll figure out who I was. But I usually don't, then go ahead and tell them who it was. But one student who said, "oh, that's my favorite book," and when I said, "read the book carefully," he said, actually, he said, "I've read it a couple of times." And I said, "read it carefully and you'll figure out who I was." He said, "oh, I don't want to read it again." So, and that diminished it. That diminished his gray. [ Laughter ] >> So, I think The House of God, I think for all of us, was an indelible and seminal part of our medical training. And that certainly will never change. That's on our resume. I don't think, I don't think typically we put our identification on The House of God in the resume. So, where it comes up is in casual conversation, because the book is discussed, as you know, it's discussed, it's unpredictable where it will be discussed, but wherever there's physicians around, there's a possibility of a reference to a House of God or metaphoric joke or story to the book. And then based on a careful assessment of the audience, which includes not only a mental status exam, but a judgment of whether they're capable of actually understanding the book, and most people who have read it are, indeed, more than capable of understanding it, than on occasion I, and I imagine my friends, will reveal our identities. And that always leads to a vivid discussion. >> I became a celebrity. >> What? >> He became a celebrity. >> Yeah, I just, this is a little off, but we were in Hawaii in one of the seminars day long, How to Stay humanin Medicine, and a medical student had just come back from his interview at Beth Israel in Boston, and they had this sales thing about why you should come to Boston with a slideshow for the prospective interns. And one of the things is medical team for the Red Sox, baseball team. Second is House of God. This was now a sales point to get interns to come. >> Well, along those lines, I'm shameless. Sam Shameless you can call me. >> Another name. >> What I have learned to do, if, for instance, Janet's aged mother, she eventually lived a long life to 102, almost 102 in Florida. And, of course, she had doctor upon doctor upon doctor. I've been known, I knew her for almost 50 years, of course. And when she got a doctor or had something coming up, she would often say, "could you call the doctor and, you know, try to, you know, make sure he's doing the right thing?" And I really learned how to do this because I called the doctor in Florida. They don't want to talk to another doctor in the north. I'm the son in law of, you know, sir. They don't want that. And they're very mean to me. And so I didn't very far. Then I thought, and it started something, then I thought, okay, I'm Dr. Blah, blah, blah. Oh, by the way, have you ever read The House of God? Oh, yeah, it's my favorite book. I say, "well, I wrote that book." And, you know, out it comes. And she got the best medical care. She lived to 102 years old. In fact, though, it got hard sometimes. One guy, somebody, one doctor in Florida said, I'm Samuel Shem. You're not. And I said, "I am." He said, "you're not. Prove it." And the latest, of course, is the next generation. Our daughter had what I diagnosed correctly as the acute appendicitis several years ago. We take her to Newton Wellesley Hospital. It's Yom Kippur. Nobody's there. A skeletal crew of people, you know? And we're in the cubicle, and we're waiting and waiting. Nobody is seeing her. So, finally, I say, okay, I've got to pull the card again, you know? Nurse comes in, I said, when are they coming, oh, well, I don't know, there aren't too many. Oh, have you ever read a 65 year old nurse, you know, have you ever read The House of God? Oh, I love it. It's my favorite book. I say, "well, I wrote it." She said, "really?" And she throws her arms around me and gives me a big hug. Next thing you know, everybody is in the room, the surgeon is ready, she's on her way down to the emergency room, you know? And actually, whenever I go in, one last tiny story, I, because I was working too hard, et cetera, I, all of a sudden, at dinner one night, noticed I had I was an atrial fib. I diagnosed an irregular irregularity, you know? Newton Wellesley again. I told him I was House of God, and that helped, I got attention, they gave me medicines, it wasn't breaking. It was going on and on and on. It got to be 11:00, almost 11:00 at night, and the cardiologist said, "okay, look, I'm going to have to admit you to the resident upstairs." And bang, normal sinus rhythm. I swear to God. It was like getting a shock. See you later! [ Laughter ] >> Thank you. >> Questions? [ Inaudible ] >> We had, we had two psychologists by the name of Carol and Ted Nadelson. >> They were psychiatrists. I'm sorry. Ted and Carol Nadelson. And they did psychiatry rounds with us. And these were scheduled rounds. I've forgotten how often they were. But we went around to patients, and we were all in a group. And what was crazy was they were discussing the patients, but they were really doing psychiatry on us. So, it was very clever how they couched that, right? They were really giving us therapy as we were going around. I think everybody pretty much realized that. So, personally, I think the big thing for me, it's crazy, I would wake up in the middle of the night, you know, feeling my wife's blood pressure, and talking and mumbling about dose this, dose that, and the nurses said always make sure he's awake before you take a verbal order, which, of course, now is illegal. But I would just mumble. And so that was my stress. But I don't know if anybody else suffered PTSD. I know you didn't. >> No, I didn't. I certainly, you know, I certainly found reading the book when it came out very helpful because it came out right as I started as an attending, which was somewhat similarly stressful in terms of the level of responsibility. And it helped me with that. I don't, you know, I don't think that, I don't think that I had post traumatic stress disorder, or I'm not sure any of us did from this, but my later in reading accounts of the Vietnam War, you know, I felt, could see the similarities between this experience. And I think the book that made the most impact on me in that way was James Webb's Fields of Fire about an infantry platoon in Vietnam, a Marine platoon. >> Yeah, I think PTSD would be too strong a term to describe what our experiences were. I mean, none of us took time off. None of us, none of us deviated on our medical paths. Although I'm sure our ultimate career choices may have been affected some. But none of us reacted acutely I think to the experience. I do think book was very helpful coming out of, I think 1978, I think, yeah, so a few years after the internship. So, I think, I think we all love the book. I think we're all proud of the book. I think it helped us integrate the experience. I think it helped us see it through the broader lens. It helped us see it through not only Steve's eyes, but the eyes of some of our colleagues. And the emotional truths that are so vivid in the book, it was very helpful for me to see those depicted in that way and not to think of them simply as, or not to think of the challenges or the issues or the scars as my personal experience alone or my personal failings or weaknesses, right? [ Inaudible ] >> I just wanted to say that, you know, this is about medicine. This is also about the culture and the world, the people talking about the war, the 60s, all through The House of God, Nixon is on the TVs. I think that the sense for me of having looking back on it is how much I didn't understand that at the time and how much I do now that medicine reflects our culture. It's not all about changing medicine. This is, all of the things we've talked about today, the disconnections, the screens, the issues about relationships and division and depression and the world, it's all, the corporate kind of mentality, the electronics, all of which are struggles, the environmental challenges, the future that we all of it is in that relationship. And I think for me, the capacity and we've come to understand over time is how the relationship in that room really reflects the whole world and the culture, and that you can't just see it in a personal way, or it's not just about medicine. I just want to make sure we end with that, because I think that's part of the gift you have is seeing that whole. >> Yeah, just to end, and so happy that Bob and Steve and David are doing this. And a little bit with the Fat Man. I was accused of being, you know, a very angry person, a very cynical person with this book. But then I went back to the book when I started speaking all over on how to stay humanin medicine, and I went back, and I looked. I said, "there's some, there's hope in this book." And it comes a lot from the Fat Man. And this one phrase he's always telling his patients to be with the patient. So, those are the words he uses. It's about five times in the book. I didn't know what I was doing because there was no Fat Man. But being with the patients was important. And he has in fact, I found a phrase there. You know, what we do for our patients is we, we're with them so that they feel part they don't they feel some part of a grand nutty scheme. With us, they feel part of life. And I think what Janet says, in the new novel, Man's 4th Best Hospital, the Fat Man is back, of course. And one of the things he said, is to echo Janet, which I certainly am mature enough now to talk about and write about, is that the world is in the room. When you're with a patient, the world is that's one of the laws kind of. The world is in the room, right? In the broad sense. It's not, it's not just the diseases as we identify them. So, thank you all so much. And I think there's refreshments out there. [ Applause ]