[Kanade Shinkai] JAMA Dermatology publishes research, reviews, and opinions concerning the epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of skin diseases. As the new Editor in Chief, I'm excited to bring the best clinical research articles that will help as dermatologists practice safely, efficiently, effectively. I'm also really excited and looking forward to working with authors and readers alike to really enhance the educational impact of this journal. [Voiceover] JAMA Dermatology focuses on well-designed clinical trials and evidence-based systematic reviews aimed at improving the practice of dermatology. [Kanade Shinkai] We want it to be relevant information whether it's something at the molecular level all the way up to the systems level. [Voiceover] JAMA Dermatology has one of the highest impact factors among clinical dermatology journals. JAMA Dermatology dot com receives over 3 million article views and downloads annually and articles published in JAMA Dermatology had more than 6000 media mentions in 2017. [Kanade Shinkai] We hope to use our digital platform to really amplify what authors are trying to get the readers to know. Everybody wants their research to be used practically and the reason why JAMA Dermatology is able to do that is because we're part of the JAMA Network. [Voiceover] The JAMA Network is a family of journals that includes JAMA, 11 specialty titles, and JAMA Network Open. Being part of a network gives JAMA Dermatology access to extensive resources, including a large social media following and multimedia content production, all of which help promote your findings to physicians and researchers around the world. [Kanade Shinkai] Publishing in JAMA Dermatology means having all of the resources of the whole JAMA Network available to authors. We really want to make this process efficient, timely, and smooth so that authors can see the highest quality version of their article published in the fastest time possible. [Voiceover] Every submission to JAMA Dermatology undergoes prompt, rigorous review by an editorial team that includes leading clinicians and scientists. [Kanade Shinkai] I'm excited to work with this editorial team. They represent the best minds and thought leaders in the areas of medical and surgical dermatology, pediatric dermatology, research, and policy. [Kanade Shinkai] I'm Dr. Kanade Shinkai, associate professor of dermatology at the University of California, San Francisco and I invite you to read, follow, and contribute to the exciting new changes happening at JAMADermatology.com.