From [music] the Jamama Network, this is Jamma Opthalmology author interviews. Conversations with [music] authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions featured in Jamama Opthalmology. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. You're listening to Jamba Opthalmology author interviews. Thank you for joining us. I'm Neil Breastler, editor-inchief of Jamba Opthalmology. And today we're going to look at the role of home hazards in shaping the association of visual function and falls in older adults. And joining me is the corresponding author of that report, Dr. Joshua Erlick. Dr. Erlick is with Opthalmology and Visual Sciences at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. Josh, thanks so much for joining us. >> Thanks so much for having me, Neil. Maybe you could tell our listeners what we knew about hazards in the home related to falls and how those falls were related to vision function before you embarked on this investigation. What do we know about that? >> Yeah. So, basically what we understood was that these associations existed. We just didn't know how they came together. What I mean by that is we knew that home hazards were a big deal for older adults and that older adults who have these hazards in their homes, things like broken flooring, uh the absence of grab bars in the bathroom, they were at a higher likelihood of experiencing a fall. We also know that people with poor vision, with vision impairment, are also at a higher risk of falling. What we didn't know is how being visually impaired and having some of these hazards in your home shapes your risk of falls. Our goal here really was to better understand how those two things come together. >> So, how big a problem were these individual things? What do we know about just vision problems and falls? >> Yeah. So, when it comes to vision problems and falls, there have been a number of studies that have shown number one that the risk of falls overall is greater in older adults who are visually impaired. that the risk of injurious falls, that is a fall that causes a problem, not simply meeting the ground, but perhaps going to the hospital or having a fracture resulting from the fall, is higher among those who are visually impaired. And we also know something about where these falls tend to occur. Because visually impaired older adults tend to spend less time outside of the home than their well-seeing peers, most of those falls are actually happening in the home, which of course just adds to the importance of understanding how the home environment interacts with visual function. And so let's go to the other component first before you do your combination and the investigation. What did we know about environmental hazards causing falls in the home? regardless of whether there's visual impairment or not. >> What we do know is that there are certain features of the home environment that seem to impact on the likelihood that an older adult falls. And these are some of the key features that we were able to investigate in the current study. So, what I'm referring to are things like broken flooring. I said the absence of grab bars in the bathroom, but also tripping hazards. things like a rug where the corner is tucked up or furniture that's sticking out in a walking path. But it's often very difficult to study these things because these are features of individuals homes. And when we do clinical studies, we very rarely find ourselves in our patients or our research participants homes. So we needed to go to fairly unique data in order to be able to uncover some of these associations and how they really fit together. >> So how did you study this? Who are the people in whom you were looking at what their vision impairment was and what their environmental hazards in the home really were? Who were those people? Yeah. So, we use data that's publicly available from a study called the National Health and Aging Trends Study. The National Health and Aging Trends Study or N HATZ as it's referred to began in 2011 and collects data every single year on a cohort of individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries in the United States age 65 and older. Now, that covers about 97 or 98% of the US over 65 population. And just to be thorough here, we're talking about the lower 48 United States. So, Hawaii and Alaska are not included here. The sampling is done such that this cohort in n hats is representative of this larger US population. And so the inferences that we're able to draw from the data then are actually generalizable to this over 65 population in the US. Again, this data is publicly available and so we were able to make use of it. The key addition to the N hats data that's happened since 2011 is that starting in 2021, N hats began testing every year in this cohort distance visual acuity, near visual acuity and contrast sensitivity function and so we were able to draw on that visual function data in the current study. >> So that's a well- characterized cohort and maybe you can tell me what did you find? How were these two components, the vision impairment and perhaps the home environmental hazards, how were they related? Were they additive? Were they redundant to each other? What was the bottom line finding? The bottom line finding was that if you have no hazards in your home, if [clears throat] you have grabbars, there are no tripping hazards, there's no broken flooring, your probability of experiencing a fall in the month prior was the same regardless of your visual function, that is visual acuity or contrast sensitivity. However, if you have one of these home hazards, as vision worsens, the probability of falls increases precipitously. Spoken another way, really visual acuity and contrast sensitivity seem to matter for the probability of falls only in the setting of one of these home hazards. >> And were there any questions about the home hazards that you would have liked to have seen that they didn't have? You can't go back and say, "Oh, I wish you had asked about such and so. I understand they have the grab bars. I understand they want to know about if there's any cracks in the floor." Now that you've thought about these home hazards, anything missing from that or you think they covered most of it? >> Yeah, that's a good question. One of the shortcomings in the way home hazards was ascertained in N hats, this is both a positive and a negative. So the home hazards were ascertained through interviewer observations rather than a very structured set of questions like we often have in surveys like N hats. The interviewers were actually asked to observe what they found in the home as they were walking around to say go usher the individual to take their visual acuity test. They were asked to observe if they noticed any broken flooring. Of course they may have missed the room with the broken flooring and that could be a room where the individual spends a lot of time. An even more rigorous approach to systematically observing these hazards could have augmented our ability to detect home hazards. >> And how about the vision impairment collection? Did we know if this was related to specific diseases? Because this is more of our expertise than the home hazard environmental health authority there. Do we do we know if this was the same whether it was diabetic macular edema or geographic atrophy from macular degeneration if it was visual field loss from glaucoma or optic neuropathy? Did we have that sort of granularity or it was just the visual acuities near and distant that you mentioned? >> The short answer is that it was just the visual functions including contrast sensitivity. The expanded answer is that we might be able to do something in the future to address that shortcoming. And that is that the N hat data can be linked to Medicare claims. At least for individuals who are receiving athomeic care, there's an opportunity to use those claims to determine whether an individual has been diagnosed with a condition like diabetic macular edema, macro degeneration, etc. that may be the culprit behind the visual impairment or the decreased visual function that we're measuring. So certainly if there's no vision impairment, we might not even be seeing the person and it's up to the whole public health to make sure we minimize these environmental hazards. But as you said, they become a factor as the visual impairment perhaps worsens. So does this change perhaps what clinicians, opthalmologists should be discussing with patients as they have decreased vision? I know commonly we think about discussing driving because that's a very common problem. Should we be discussing the need to have someone evaluate their home hazards or is it too early for that? Are these associations interesting and now we have to confirm them before we start having our patients act on these findings? >> You know, it's a great question and I'm not sure that we know for sure the answer to that question. What I would say is this. Certainly interventional evidence where people with vision impairment with vision issues have an inhome assessment say by an occupational therapist and have their home modified in appropriate ways and comparing the outcomes in a group like that versus a group that doesn't have the intervention would give us the most rigorous level one evidence to say this is something we should be doing. On the other hand, optimizing the home environment for older adults is probably a good thing to be doing regardless of their vision. And this study, I believe, just simply provides evidence that it's an extra important thing to be doing in people with vision issues. As I said before, as visual acuity, as contrast sensitivity worsened, it was really those people in whom there were home hazards who saw the greatest increase in their probability of falls or really any increase in their probability of falls. So, I have no qualms recommending that the home environment be optimized for older adults because that's something we really ought to be doing. And there are occupational therapists in fact in certain low vision clinics who are equipped to do just that with an eye towards the sorts of modifications that are most likely to benefit people specifically with vision issues. >> And speaking of visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, could you determine if those went hand in hand or were they independent factors? That is, somebody could have the same impaired visual acuity and if their contrast sensitivity was worse, they perhaps had even greater falls given the same environmental hazards in the home. >> Yeah, that was actually not something that we looked at in this study. >> So, what are the next steps? What do you think needs to be done to help us help people with avoiding their environmental hazards and falls that may result from that? because we see so many people of course with visual impairment. >> So I think one of the keys is using data like this to advocate for change. That's smart both because we want to help people but also makes economic sense. We know that falls contribute approximately $80 billion uh in cost to the US health care system. That's just non-fatal falls per year. $80 billion. So they're a really costly preventable source of morbidity. So investing in any sort of intervention that's going to decrease the likelihood that older adults fall at least has the potential to be highly cost effective given how much falls are costing the health care system. So I would say that a next step is really some economic modeling to show that it makes sense to be paying for example for occupational therapists to go out into the home and to make these modifications that have the potential to prevent falls. Concurrently that interventional evidence that I spoke about combined with that sort of economic modeling I think has the potential to be very powerful in advocating for these kinds of interventions as being a cost-effective thing that insurers and other payers ought to be investing in. Those are great ideas to think about. So, Dr. Joshua Erlick, thank you so much for sharing the insights on this very important study. >> Thank you so much, Neil. I appreciate it. >> I'm Neil Breastler, and I've been speaking with Dr. Erlick on a study on the role of home hazards in [music] shaping the association of visual function and falls in older adults. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at the Jamba Network. To follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online [music] atjambetaudio.com or search for Jamba Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thank you everyone for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.