Women with pregnancies at high risk for trisomy 21, also known as Down syndrome, are often referred for fetal karyotyping procedures like amniocentesis and CVS. Both of these are invasive and have been associated with an additional 1% risk of miscarriage. Cell-free DNA, or cfDNA, tests are increasingly being offered to women to reduce the number of required invasive procedures. Those at high would first undergo the non-invasive cfDNA test, and only if the results are positive, would then be referred for invasive procedures. But the effect of this strategy has yet to be evaluated. So researchers in France designed a randomized clinical trial with the objective of determining if this strategy reduces the rate of miscarriage compared with immediate invasive testing. So let's review the study. The trial was conducted over two years in 57 centers in France. The participants included just over 2100 women whose risk of trisomy 21 was estimated to be between 1 in 5 and 1 in 250 following combined first-trimester screening. About half the women were referred to receive a cfDNA test followed by invasive testing only if the cfDNA results were positive, while the other half were referred to receive immediate invasive testing. The primary outcome was the number of miscarriages before 24 weeks gestation. Okay, onto the results. The miscarriage rate in both groups was 0.8%, for a risk difference of negative 0.03%. Not statistically significant. But the trial did turn up some interesting secondary outcomes. 11 chromosomal abnormalities other than Trisomy 21 were found in the group that underwent immediate invasive procedures, some of these requiring dedicated follow-up and management. That's 1.5% of pregnancies in that group. Given the randomized nature of the study, a similar incidence of abnormalities in the cfDNA group would be expected, but only one abnormality, or 0.1%, was detected. The main conclusion is that among women with pregnancies at high risk of trisomy 21, using cfDNA tests to stratify women for invasive testing did not result in a significant reduction in miscarriage rates before 24 weeks. But the researchers note that the study may have been underpowered to detect clinically important differences in miscarriage rates.