Hello and welcome to Conversations with Dr. Bachner. Once again, it is Howard Bachner, editor and chief of uh JAMA. I I am uh joined by two true American luminaries. So, Victor Zhao, Don Berwick, I want to thank both of you for joining me today. Um it's a birthday, so it's it's really nice news. um the M uh formerly formerly the M now the National Academy of Medicine which Victor has been the president of since 2014 is 50 years old. So happy birthday Victor. Thank you. Um we're going to discuss u a remarkable series of events. Um, Victor and Ken Shine, uh, the former president of the M have written an editorial that we just published about an hour ago entitled two decades since to ear to air as human progress but still a chasm and it's focused on three viewpoints. I'll read them quickly. Assessing progress in health uh, healthc care quality through the lens of co 19 by uh, Corgan and Clancy. accelerating global improvements in health care quality, Leatherman and Berwick, and then a roadmap to advance patient safety and ambulatory care by Singh and Carry Onion. But I think I I first have to start by taking people uh through the careers of these two remarkable individuals and for very specific reasons. Uh Victor is a cardiologist, trains at the Bighgam, goes to Stanford from 1990 to 1996, returns to the Bighgam as chief of medicine in 1996 to 2004, then to Duke, then to the M. Don, like me, is a pediatrician. He's active uh in the Boston community, works at Harvard Community Health Plan, and in 1989 co-founds the Institute of Healthcare Improvement, which has gone on to become a preeminent QI institution in the world. Uh Don uh becomes a member of the M in 1997. Victor follows the year later. Why the chronology? The two seinal reports, the two seinal reports of the National Academy of Medicine that have transformed certain aspects of medicine are to air as human and crossing the quality chasm. Don chairs or co-chairs both committees and I just want to read one piece, one short piece from crossing the quality chasm because it's published 20 years ago and is still still critically important to how we think of health care systems. Health care systems have to be safe, effective, patient centered, timely, efficient, and equitable. Victor, when these two reports come out, they come out about six months or a year apart. Don is an author of both. Did you know they were seinal reports when they when they come out 20 years ago? Well, it certainly made an impact as chief of medicine and report came out, it caused a lot of buzz. Okay. Because the report says there were 98,000 people dying in hospital from medical errors. And of course we were saying how can that possibly be you know I mean certainly at that time doctors hospitals were up here and you know yeah you know we don't make errors uh at least we didn't think so. So it really caught the attention. But I think what happened was a series of meetings and conversations that really took us to a point that we know we need to take it seriously. I was reminding Don that he came to some of retreats. the medical school, partners healthc care had retreats and Don was very passionate and actually shared his own personal experience and and it really made an impression for me and I also remember Chris Castle came to give grand rounds on this and the room was packed and you can hear pin drop because people were alarmed by these numbers and I think in all good conscious realize that we don't do something about this and since we are the care providers and this is shining a big light on us we better take this seriously so that was the starting point and of course there's lots of stories to tell but follow but I I think that report caught the entire medical community by surprise but also caught their attention don you worked on both reports so just a couple uh quick questions were they meant to to beim simultaneous reports or one that followed the other. That's the the first. Um and the and the second um is did you know what impact these two reports would have not just in the United States but around the world? Did you envision what they would mean? I I think it's one of the great great contributions of the National Academy of Medicine to global health. Don, I'll give you quick history. The reports were the sequel to a roundt on quality that Ken Sh had organized on his own initiative at the National Institute of Medicine at that time. Um several members there uh were very eloquent. Uh David Lawrence I think deserves particular credit for having said it's time to to put something on the something something on the table. It's real change. He said the chassis is broken was his term. And uh I don't know the exact details but Ken did something quite unusual. Victor may comment. Usually the national academy responds to requests for reports. There'll be a government agency or some other stakeholder will say could you organize a committee. Uh Ken did it on his own initiative from the academy itself set up the committee on quality of care in America which I served on and that committee was the committee that authored those two reports. I chaired one of the two subgroups named after David Lawrence's idea, the chassis subcommittee on on redesign. We I I knew I've been working on quality for a decade and a half and I knew it would be important but I had no idea it would hit this way. The two rep so the what happened was the uh committee was meeting and the Harvard medical practice study had appeared. We had evidence on errors and someone suggested that maybe while we did the larger report which became crossing the quality chasm we ought to do a fasttrack report on patient safety because it was so urgent. I remember the I remember the meeting in which one of the distinguished members says no one will be interested but we went ahead we fasttracked the report on patient safety the data were very good we had a very good group in the committee and so that report came out a year before the full report they were conceived of as in sequence uh but we had no idea that cross that um that two errors human would would would hit the the bell the way it did it it leaked it leaked on a Sunday and the academy therefore accelerated the release and on that Monday we had a a fire drill where everyone was doing interviews and it it just got a lot of press attention. The subsequent report which I regard as more comprehens comprehensive in some ways more important uh didn't get quite as much attention but be by then we were confident we needed to produce a framework. Yeah, I've only read it like two or three times. It's like bookmarked it's sturdy because to me it's the fabric of what a health care system should be. Victor, when you hear Howard, let me say something first. Yeah, go right ahead. I think I want to give Kenshine I mean amazing credit. My predecessor and in fact I learned from him as Don said you know we now as a national academy we're doing a lot of things in a way that's timely. Yeah. And not necessarily go through the bureaucracy, right? Sometimes within the academy can be pretty daunting. But Ken uh even back in 1992 had this idea and he actually took it through the council instead of taking through what would be the usual executive committee of the NRC we call it right and then he didn't have the money and we never actually got sponsor dollars we took money from ourselves and actually Bruce Elvis was helpful I believe in funding part of this so I think this is an example of leadership of seeing the right issue you being willing to take the risk and willing to put your own resources to advances and as you said I mean this is probably our brand our marquee in terms of M and AM everybody knows when they say the air is human and it's set in the way a power for us to do what we are able to do today Victor when you think about these two reports visav your tenure here um since 2014 and and you were just reelected so it I don't know what the length of term is but it's another four five six years but but when you think of this tenure you're coming in 2014 and these two reports where do you think the field what have been the successes and what are the remaining challenges challenges plenty and success plenty as well uh as you know uh when we conceived of hey this 20th anniversary. Let's celebrate this report. We came to you because we figure you're the right place to publish them. And so we had decide how many do we do. Now I should point out that from 1999 year 2000 to now we generated close to a dozen reports on the quality series. Ah okay. And it and it and and really looked at all different aspects from nursing, leadership, education, information technology and of course more recently the global that the emulatory and of course the global aspect that dawn led in 2018 and so on so forth. So we had to sort of stay back and say talking to you what do we do to celebrate this and you kind of asked us what are the big issues going forward successes are plenty and maybe Don can say more because after all who doesn't know about patient quality right I mean it is the way in which we now care deliver health care not perfect our numbers are still not great but you go into a hospital and you know that that's what people focus on. We got to deliver quality those six elements and of course safety is a key part of this element. I want to come back to one of them as I see forward. So I think it changed the way as you said it changed the way the rest of the world because uh NHS came up with a similar kind of declaration a year or two later and then the WHO in 2004 say this is it. Don and I have been involved with many international forum right the last one Don I think you and I were in Doha before we can travel right and there's a movement around the world that no health system can come into um existence if you will and try to meet the universal health coverage without quality and Don can say more about this I think the reason that going forward we picked on three four areas and I would like you already read them. One of course is that the ambulatoratory care so much work is done on hospital. Yeah. Right. Events ambulatoratory care and associate with that is the digital technology. There's so much now coming out. Second is the lens of co has really pressure test our system and show that we have lots of weaknesses still. And third of course as don has led the global aspect. What about rest of the world? So, so we chose these three plus a by Ken and myself. But going forward, I think I've talked to you about this. We really think that equity is the long the unify of all these things. So, we want to work on that as well, which is one of the six elements. Thank you. Yeah. No, it's interesting, Victor, that 20 years ago, equity uh e e equity is so prominent in crossing the equality chasm. Uh so they're very smart people who recognized 20 years ago 30 years ago it was an issue. Don the successes and the challenges um the successes Victor has talked about the the uh catching on of the of the issue. I I somewhat narcissistically I say I I wrote those six aims. I remember being being in Woods Hole at uh in upstairs in one of those rooms and we wrote them on a flip chart and debated them. But the ability to get that whole committee together and said we're going to declare aims and those were the six uh and they took off. You now find them in mission statements all over the world and it it was time for for for this group to declared improvements needed. And by the way, the scientific pedigree was incontrovertible that we we reviewed hundreds and hundreds of papers. We said nothing that we didn't have very strong evidence for as is the way with the academy. Uh so awareness has grown, concern has grown. Uh patient safety took the lead. It's the most charismatic and the most easily understood and that's been very good news because even the World Health Organization now has centered that in its strategy. Uh second has been breakthrough I would say local breakthroughs. If any dimension of quality now any of those six dimensions we know places around the world that have made But very remarkable improvements uh patient safety for sure on effectiveness absolutely patient centerness we've have a whole new way to think about it timeliness yes we've reduced delays to zero in some place places places and uh waste reduction has been a problem um I think the the weaknesses have been I'd say there there are three weaknesses the first is I I think we probably should have put equity first I mean I it was the sixth of the six I don't know if we nailed it the way today now modern sensibilities are seeing it. I just am I I'm saddened and shocked as every time I look at the data on how uneven this world is with respect to the well-being of people and that's got to be quality problem one I think. U number two is we um didn't have the funding to put public health into the picture. So this is a this is a report about health care less than about population what today we call population health. Uh luckily the academy and others have led on that and as you know in 2006 my colleagues Tom Nolan and John Whittington published the paper on uh the triple aim which which broadens the this view the the six aims are in care delivery but then what about population health what about lowering per capita cost I think the third is a strategic gap still if you go into the seauite of hospitals or clinics all over the world I think people be aware of this but it's It is really not the most common phenomenon that the senior executive leadership put the improvement of quality at the top of the strategic agenda. There are so many other things on their minds and unless and until that happens we won't make the global progress we really need. It's a it's a tough job to lead but this has got to be central. You know Don when I was CEO at Duke I can tell you that the board a board of directors put this top of mind. The board has a committee. Yes. And we have to report back in quality and safety. I think when institutions all take it that seriously, that's when you're going to see the change, the sea change. Victor, you you've been at some remarkable institutions in in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina. Now you're back in Washington. Why? Let me just read how you defined equitable uh 20 years ago. providing care that does not vary in quality because of personal characteristics such as gender, ethnicity, geographic location, and socioeconomic status. Victor, through through your your lens of your career and now as president of National Academy of Medicine, why has this been such a struggle in the United States? Well, first of all, uh we have to recognize how important this issue is. I think co in many ways unmask further the problem because we always find out that the vulnerable population those with soio economic challenges are the ones that suffers most in terms of quality and safety of their care also of the population health itself. I think it's been shown again and again with climate change you name it. So as Don said, this is something we've now got to work on shining a lens on the quality safety issue that really comes down to understanding social determinance of health, the social economic circumstance which they live, the work and uh and and and educate the the issue of trust. the the really important issue of getting trust and working with the community to achieve those kind of quality standards. the importance of data. You know, during COVID, there's actually no systematic way of collecting data and it's really quite amazing. If you really want to make a change, as my friend Don always says, you can't improve what you don't measure. You really got to collect the data and of course culture and leadership. So, it is so important for us to work on this issue. And we believe that in this country, I think it comes down to social, economic, and other issues. And of course, for communities of color who are greatly affected, we know there's a deep issue of structural racism that we need to address as root cause. Are you optimistic, Victor? Oh my uh I tell you I wake up no exaggeration every day thinking of how we can overcome this issue and if you look at today's the political scene and how some of the shall we say our nations behaving some this way or that it worries me a lot. Uh but we're up to a challenge we have to work on this. we have to change it because if we don't you can imagine how worse things could be. So I am I would say I'm encouraged by the recent events and the willingness of many people facing up to issue of structural racism that many conversations now you know I I would say not too long ago medical school don't tell you about social determinance of health and now everybody's teaching it. I do think that people recognizing this. So in that regard, I'm optimistic. But I do think the bigger issue for our country is really getting the entire nation to understand how important this is and to work at this. Don, you were in Washington. You know, the ranker that can pervade uh the District of Columbia, Washington. You ran for governor of Massachusetts, a liberal state. Are you optimistic? I am when I meet youth. Uh I think with the I I I'm not being uh I'm being honest about that. What gives me optimism every time I meet students and young people in our profession and in the communities they they know what has to happen. And uh so yeah, I think the future is going to depend on on their energies and anything I can do to tell youth this is their time to take over and make this right. Uh the incumbent stakeholders are very reluctant to make the changes we need. We've got to get resources into social determinance as Victor has said and that's not a vague idea. The social determinants are well understood that science is superb. We just don't have the political will to move it yet and that's going to take some real mobilization. Um I wrote a viewpoint in JAMA as you know Howard on the moral determinance of health. I was going to ask you because you tried to reframe the discussion slightly. Could you talk about moral determinance of health? Yeah. I mean the it's a question really. I mean we we we have the data. We we know how to make societies healthy. We really do. Uh the evidence is overwhelming and wellestablished and yet we don't see investments in most countries certainly not in the US in proportion to where the health can be found. And I say well why not? Well say is it economics? The economics don't favor it. As I say the incumbents have a lot of money and they don't really want to see a lot of change right now. They're making a lot of money and they're good people. They're not evil people and they um and it could be uh the political fractionization of the country. But I so I say where are we at with the energy morality? I I I I know that's so high-minded and risky, but we've got to look at what is right and it is not right to live with the suffering that we live with, especially when we know what to do about it. So I'm the moral determinance is it was a list of agendas that I think the healthcare industry should adopt. I think it is we we need to own it. 18% of the economy a lot of gravitas. Victor's been brilliant taking one of these on in climate change now he's announced it in the in the um the nationalmies at the 50th anniversary. Uh we need to get engaged and and if we can yes I'm optimistic but right now we're too many bystanders. Victor, what's the what's the role of the what's the role of the national academy? Well, let me just say what Don says and so eloquently and I expand that a little bit. I think it's not only a health issue. At the end of the day, you're not going to get there in health without getting there everywhere in our social construct and the challenge we face. Right? So social determines to me as we look at as determining health but in fact they determine the entire welfare of our society and we really need to work at all of them and by working in all of them that's when health would improve. If you only have the health lens on this, it's not going to get there. Right? You can go and provide much better social services for the community, but they still poor. They still have challenges. You can provide better educational opportunity, but still there's a big divide. I think that until we really address the entire issue of our society, we're not going to get there. That's what I meant when you say, are you optimistic? That being said, I'm optimistic with the new administration. There are lots of good people there and they are having the right conversation and I do know that the new administration have all the right intentions. So, let's do everything we can to help them. And that's when I come back to your question about what do we do at NAM, right? That's what we need to do. I I need to be able to look at an issue and not be shy and timid about it, but being able to look at it, call it out and work on it. I need to work with people beyond health to really try to change the construct in our society. I need to work with the administration to see if we can help in any way getting people like Dawn, like you and others to get the best minds together to give them advice. And that's what we're going to be doing. It's interesting your your comment, Victor. Sandro Galo wrote a really wonderful piece for us about who owns social determinance of health and he doesn't want to indicate that medicine should turn its back on social determinance of health but he has argued that we can't do enough and it may not be appropriate for healthcare to do everything that it's a societal issue and somehow unless we make it a greater societal issue the likelihood of success is going to be diminished. It was a very interesting piece because of this controversy about how how much does medicine own but how much does society own. Donut Don um so in between Kenshine uh and Victor was Harvey Fineberg who's a friend of for the three of us. Uh Harvey's now at the Moore Foundation. And just taking taking it back to safety and quality for a second, Harvey has uh invested quite a bit of more foundation money in ambulatory safety and diagnostic accuracy. It's very interesting. You know, if you talk to Harvey and the other people who've worked on it, they're worrying they've worried that we've missed a step and that's around diagnostic accuracy. that if you end up in the wrong on the wrong train or in the wrong algorithm, you're you're destined not to improve quality and safety. Could you talk about that a little bit, Don, from your perspective? I think it's an important um supplement to what the work that's gone on. I credit the Institute of the National Academy was I believe Chris Castle was chair of the committee on diagnostic error and they did a good job. You know, um I must say my overall view is that um it comes from Paul O'Neal actually who was the head of Alcoa taught me a ton and was treasury secretary. Paul was just a tremendous leader in the area of quality and he said you can't you you can't be excellent at some things that excellence is a it's a uh it's a characteristic of everything you do. And so picking up on this issue of accuracy of diagnosis absolutely belongs on the table. What I want to caution against and and and and Harvey is a fantastic leader and the Gmor Foundation is doing exactly the right thing in this world. But as we consume this, it's important not to have a an an eitheror view of the whole dimension of quality. Back to O'Neal's idea, it's not like we drop something to work on something else. We've got to have a sense of performance across the entire array of what people need. And uh yes, diagnostic um excellence belongs there. I do have a little bit of a maybe a scientific question here is I I I think when you when you think about health care delivery on point of the acute care now I think we often do things for people that help them very effectively without a diagnosis. And so it's um it's it's an interesting debating point as to whether you always need diagnosis on the route to accident. I'm not I'm not sure. But Don, you would agree the error in diagnosis is a problem. Absolutely. Getting it wrong is a problem. Getting it wrong is a problem. I mean, think about it's the foundation of patient management. At least you got to figure out whether you do a test or not. You have to have a diagnosis at least. Yeah. And so imagine when you get it wrong, everything goes wrong afterwards. Yeah, I agree with that. Uh the other evolution though around patient center is to move medicine toward what matters to you. You've heard that language now worldwide. Instead of saying what's the matter with you the diagnosis you say what matters to you and you organize effort around the p it's a shift of power in which the patient and family community get to say well this is the this is the kind of help I would like which isn't necessarily about diagnosis only. So I'd say it's an and not an or. Um [clears throat] final words um from you Victor what's it meant to be president of the national academy of medicine? Well, I always say I serve the members, I serve the nation, I serve globally. And that's what it's like. And you know that, Howard, you and I had several conversations about this. You know, it's not as if I'm here the emperor or even, you know, a king. In fact, everything is I see myself as a servant, as someone who serves everybody. And I I do think it's important for for me for NAM to get the right people the right thinking to think together collectively to go forward. So my job will be to do something like this to see what's going on what's important and the willingness as Ken Shine did to take a leadership role be bold enough to move things forward but always with the idea of serving the nation. Um, Don, final word from you, but before I uh move on, I I just want to mention Don's a member of the JAM editorial board, which I should have mentioned earlier on. Um, um, Don uh, we either asked Don to write for us or he spontaneously writes for us a few times a year. And um it is my extraordinary privilege along with Phil Fontana Rosa because we edit all the viewpoints and editorials together to read virtually anything that Don Berwick writes. There are few people in medicine who can assemble the human language without a theosaurus. words I can understand but can assemble them in a way where he can tell he tells a remarkably evocative story. And so I would say to all of our listeners, read everything that Don Berwick writes uh because his choice of words and language are remarkable. But but Don um last comment for you. Uh has it achieved what you wanted? Did did the two reports achieve what you wanted? Well, first thanks for that extraordinarily generous comment. And I don't want to close without a word of gratitude and admiration for Victor. I watching the academy thrive under his leadership and grow and expand its visual field. He stands on the shoulders of giants, but he himself is one and it's uh it's just such a pleasure to work with you. You know, I guess the reports Howard began what I dream of, but they haven't accomplished it yet. um they they do do very important things. They say that we have a problem and they give the pedigree the scientific pedigree for that. They establish the science. If they're read well, they convert our thinking from a culture of blame and individual accountability and trying harder which will never work to a culture of systems thinking and understanding we are interdependent. It's one world, one one effort. Even a single patient requires us to work together. So it introduces systems thinking and it lays out some pretty clear guidelines for what leadership needs needs to do. So the charter is there that those reports plus the triple aim which I credit Tom Nolan and John Whittington with the architecture. They're the blueprints. Now it's up to the leadership. uh we have to somehow convince or win over leaders all the way from ministries of health to individual chairs of departments to individual clinicians to understand that if the equality as the strategy is the best thing we can do for the world. It's the best way for we to help the people that are suffering and and it has to be strategic the way Victor described at Duke. So I yeah, it will get there, but it's going to require one more turn wheel as leaders begin to see that getting getting meeting people's needs directly through focus on quality is the is the best route to the systems we want. This is Howard Bachner, editor and chief of JAMA. I've been joined by two two remarkable individuals, two luminaries in medicine, both in the United States and around the world. Victor Zhao who's current president of the National Academy of Medicine and Don Berwick who's president ameritus of the Institute for Healthcare Improvement. To all our listeners, this is the last conversation of the year. I wish you all seasons greetings. If you celebrate the holidays, uh enjoy them. Good health and stay safe. And to Don and Victor, both of you please stay healthy and thank you for your time today. Thank you. Bye-bye.