[Dost Öngür] JAMA Psychiatry is one of the leading journals in our field, and it sets the agenda for the science and the clinical practice of psychiatry around the country and also around the world. [Voiceover] JAMA Psychiatry publishes research that's innovative and clinically relevant. It has one of the highest impact factors among major psychiatry journals. In 2017, JAMA Psychiatry had almost four million online article views and received more than 11,000 media mentions. [Dost Öngür] So what does this mean for authors? Authors know that their exciting, most recent research, if it's published in JAMA Psychiatry, will have an outsized impact on our field. One of the reasons why our journal has such an outsized impact is because it's part of the JAMA Network. [Voiceover] The JAMA Network is a family of journals that includes JAMA, 11 specialty titles, and JAMA Network Open. Being part of a network gives JAMA Psychiatry access to extensive resources, including a large social media following and multimedia content production, all of which help promote your findings to physicians and researchers around the world. [Dost Öngür] As an author, I know that I want my work to have the greatest possible exposure. And having a multimedia presence, having a social media presence, makes it so that individuals who maybe don't have the time to read the paper that I published, or are interested in bits and pieces of what we have to say, can access that material because of the resources that the JAMA Network is able to provide. [Voiceover] Every submission to JAMA Psychiatry undergoes prompt, rigorous review. Approximately 1200 manuscripts are reviewed each year by an editorial team that includes leading clinicians and scientists. [Dost Öngür] These are people who are well-informed about the most recent developments in the field. And therefore, as an author, you can be reassured that when you submit a paper to JAMA Psychiatry, it will be evaluated by leaders in the field, and your paper is going to be published along with other papers of equal quality and impact. I invite you to read, follow and contribute to the exciting changes happening at JAMAPsychiatry.com.