>> The JAMA Network. [ Pause ] >> My name is Ahmedin Jemal. I'm vice president of [inaudible] Research at American Cancer Society. Ten years ago, we at American Cancer Society examined trends for all causes combined in the six leading cause of death from 1970 through 2002, and we found that death rates decreased for heart disease, cancer, stroke, and unintentional injuries while rates increased for diabetes and COPD. So we decided to update the study because the trend is for the leading cause of death have not been described since 2002. We obtained mortality data from the National Center for Health statistics, and we examined changes expressed as [inaudible] percent change in mortality rates for all causes combined and for the six leading cause of death, which includes heart disease, cancer, the stroke, diabetes, COPD, and unintentional injuries from 1969 through 2013. Death rates decreased for all causes combined, and for the five out of the six leading cause of death, including heart disease, cancer, stroke, diabetes, and unintentional injuries. In contrast to the decrease in death rates for the other major cause of death, death rates between 1969 and 2013 doubled for COPD. The decrease in death rates from heart disease, stroke, and diabetes have slowed during the most recent time period. We concluded that we are making progress in reducing death rate from all causes and most, the most leading cause of death. However, rates during the most recent time period have slowed for heart disease, stroke, and the diabetes, which likely due to the obesity epidemic that have unfolded over the past three decades. So we as health providers can do more to prevent and the manage obesity through exercise, diet, and therapy for weight loss. The next step would be to find out why death rates for heart disease, stroke, and diabetes are the slowing. One in five US adults are a smokers, one in three are obese, and obesity, smoking, unhealthy diet, and physical inactivity account for almost half of the deaths in the US. We also need to invest more in research to discover new prevention [inaudible] and the treatment in order to accelerate the reduction in mortality rates.