 from the JAMA network, this is JAMA Clinical Reviews, interviews and ideas about innovations in medicine, science and clinical practice. Welcome to our listeners from around the world, and thank you for tuning in to this JAMA Clinical Reviews podcast. I am your host, Mary McDermott, deputy editor of JAMA, and I'm here today with Dr. Desmond Schatz, professor of pediatrics and medical director of the Clinical Research Center at the University of Florida. Dr. Schatz is author of a JAMA review on the topic of type one diabetes. Welcome, Dr. Schatz, thank you so much for joining us today. Thank you very much, Dr. McDermott, it's a pleasure to be here. So let's get started by having you tell us what is type one diabetes and how common is it? Type one diabetes is defined by really elevated blood glucose, hyperglycemia, due to the autoimmune destruction of the insulin producing cells in the pancreas. This leads to absolute insulin deficiency. More recent data from the Centers for Disease Control, the CDC, have estimated diabetes to occur in about 38 million Americans. And type one diabetes accounts for about five to 10% of these cases. So we think that there are approximately two million people in the United States and about just over eight million worldwide. And the most common presentation that we see is in adolescence, but really type one diabetes can occur at any age. And the median age for the diagnosis of diabetes has really increased to the point that worldwide, it's in the upper 20s, about 29 years, and in the United States, around about 23, 24 years. So as you alluded to, the pathophysiology of type one diabetes is related to an autoimmune destruction of the islet cells in the pancreas. So that's quite different from the pathophysiology of type two diabetes. Could you just talk a little bit more about the differences in the pathophysiology of type one and type two diabetes? So in type one diabetes, due to what we believe is an autoimmune process, there is destruction of those cells, the beta cells, that make insulin. It is a T cell mediated disease. And at this point in time, we don't fully understand the trigger or the mechanisms. In type two diabetes, there is really a dual defect. In type two diabetes, there is both insulin resistance and then also progressive loss of beta cell function over time. So we like to think about type one as due to an autoimmune disease process affecting both the innate as well as adaptive arms of the immune response. So how is type one diabetes typically diagnosed and distinguished from type two diabetes? In children, there is often the onset of the disease as denoted by polyuria, polydipsia, polyphagia, and weight loss. Although with the increasing overweight and obesity in the populations, some of these symptoms may be missed. Typically, in the presence of these symptoms and a blood glucose greater than 200 milligrams percent, a diagnosis of diabetes is made. To confirm that, autoantibodies, which include glutamagacid decoboxylase antibodies, two antibodies, ENTH antibodies, ICA, islet cell antibodies, and insulin autoantibodies are done and are present in over 95% of cases when all those antibodies are acid. And what's the role of C-peptide in the diagnosis of type one diabetes? Does that need to be measured too? C-peptide may be helpful, particularly when it is very low. But antibodies really confirm the diagnosis. C-peptide, if low, certainly is another one of those that we use in order to help in the diagnosis. However, C-peptide may be normal in new onset cases, particularly in adults, and in fact, may be a little bit elevated in adult patients who are overweight or obese. Even if they have type one diabetes? Correct. And can you just, for our listeners, remind us how the C-peptide works in terms of why is it a potentially helpful diagnostic tool? Yes. So C-peptide, if we look at insulin in the body, there are two chains of insulin. There's an A-chain and a B-chain of insulin. And when it's produced within the body, the C-peptide is cleaved off and the insulin is secreted into the blood. When you give exogenous insulin, insulin by administration for people who don't have insulin, only the A-chains and the B-chains are given. There is no C-peptide. So C-peptide is a marker of endogenous, the body's own insulin production, and has certainly been used in many studies to gauge the residual function of those beta cells that produce insulin. I'd like to talk next about who is at risk for type one diabetes, particularly given, as you said, this is an autoimmune condition. Does that mean it's primarily genetic? Who is at risk for type one diabetes? 85% to 90% of all cases of type one diabetes occur in the general population. So just 10% to 15% occur really in first degree relatives, and other relatives too, of patients with type one diabetes. Now, we believe that genetics are probably neither necessary nor sufficient for the development of the disease, although the vast majority of patients have the high risk HLA alleles, DR3 and or DR4. But its relatives, again, who have a 1 in 20 risk, if the general population is 1 in 300, the risk in relatives is 1 in 20, which means that the risk in a relative's is 15-fold higher than that in the general population. And what is the relationship between viral infections and development of type one diabetes? We do not understand exactly what triggers the disease, what leads to this breakdown in autoimmunity. What I can tell you is that in patients who are at risk as evidenced by the presence of multiple autoantibodies, that we would say are at least in stage one or stage two diabetes, that viral infections can knock you over the top. That can actually, once viral infections occur, they can certainly precipitate the disease. Whether there's a specific virus or other viruses or other triggers at this point in time, there are no definitive data. And for our listeners, can you just please walk us through the different stages of type one diabetes? Yes, so almost 10 years ago, the stages of diabetes were defined. So stage one diabetes would be the presence of two or more of these aforementioned autoantibodies and the presence of normal glucose tolerance. That would be stage one. In stage two disease, there is progression from that stage of normal glucose tolerance to abnormal glucose tolerance. Now we define glucose tolerance as having normally a fasting blood glucose of between 60 and 100, a two hour value of under 140. But the definition of diabetes, which is stage three, is the presence of a fasting blood glucose greater than 126 milligrams percent and a value of greater than 200 milligrams percent two hours post-prandialy. That's after a meal. So the progression of diabetes from stage one to stage three may take weeks, months, and particularly in older patients, many years. And what is latent autoimmune diabetes of adulthood? Latent autoimmune diabetes is a condition usually described in adults over the age of 35 and really denotes a more slowly progressive form of type one diabetes. I think there is still some debate in the literature as to whether this is a separate condition, unrelated, or related to type one, or just a slower form of the disease. But it's again, it's a disease occurring in adults and definitely a slower form of the disease. And I personally think that it is just another form of the disease occurring in adults who have type one diabetes. So if a primary care clinician diagnosis someone newly with diabetes or pre-diabetes as an adult, who should be tested for the antibodies? So I think that in adults, particularly if they have a more ectomorphic build, people certainly who have a body mass index less than 25 kilograms per meter squared, those that have weight loss. So even though they may be overweight or they've often mistakenly diagnosed as type two, but then they have a weight loss or they have symptoms of diabetes, polyuria, polydipsy, or polyphagia, they should certainly be tested with autoantibodies. Although the data is not yet firm as to whether an intervention really makes any difference in terms of the course of the disease, but we do know that early diagnosis can prevent certainly progression to diabetic ketoacidosis. Let's talk about treatment next. How do you treat type one diabetes? All patients with type one diabetes have absolute insulin deficiency. And as a result, need to have insulin replacement. And insulin can be administered by multiple daily subcutaneous injections which can be administered either through a pen or through a syringe or by continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion, which is what we call is an insulin pup. And this can be done in many ways. There is always a basal insulin. If it's given by injections, then there is a basal insulin because the pancreas normally produces a basal amount of insulin. So you give a long-acting insulin which is given once or twice a day and then you give a perennial insulin to cover the excursions of glucose which occur during meals. And when do you tell patients to take that perennial dose relative to their meal? Typically, depending on what the blood glucose is, is immediately before to up to 30 minutes prior to the injection, depending on both the blood glucose and whichever insulin is being used. And again, there are rapid acting insulins. There are ultra rapid acting insulins and there are inhaled insulins. So depending on the insulin, they do need to be taken and taken before the patient ingests any food. And is there an ideal way, like all of those different options, the pump combining the ultra or the short acting with long acting you mentioned, an inhaled insulin, is there an ideal way to achieve the best outcomes in type 1 diabetes? I really believe that no two patients are the same and a lot of it depends on the patient himself or herself and what their relationship is with their provider, the resources that are available. There is so much that goes into it each and every decision. I think that more recent data would suggest that more hybrid closed loop systems, which is a continuous glucose monitor, which is feeding into a pump, would lead to the best blood glucose control. But again, that's individualized. And certainly my feeling is, is that this is something that each and every patient should think about and discuss with their provider. Yeah, so can you just speak a little bit more to the concept of continuous glucose monitoring? Do you think that old patients with type 1 diabetes should at least be offered that? And can you just speak to its ability to improve control based on what we know now? Yes, so perhaps one of the greatest advances really in the last 10 to 20 years is the advent of continuous glucose monitoring, which is such an advantage over blood glucose testing. When we think about urine glucose testing through blood glucose testing and now continuous glucose monitoring, which can monitor glucose really every one to five minutes, which makes decision making so much easier. So really I think that all patients who have type 1 diabetes should be on continuous glucose monitoring. And then depending on their needs should receive either multiple daily insulin injections or an insulin pump. And again, each and every patient is different. Some of the more recent data would suggest that automated insulin delivery systems have been shown to improve hypoglycemia and reduce the risk of hypoglycemia. And can you just speak to the target glucose values that you tell your patients to aim for and the A1c? The goals do vary from organizations, the targets that have been adopted for continuous glucose monitoring are generally accepted as a time in range between 70 and 180 milligrams per cent. Although several people are now even advocating even what I would say is time in tight range. But overall the goal should be to have 70 per cent of time between 70 and 180 milligrams per cent. Less than 4 per cent of time should be less than 70 milligrams per cent and less than 1 per cent should be in what we would say less than 54 milligrams per cent which is what we would term severe hypoglycemia. How about the A1c? The A1c recommended by the American Diabetes Association is less than 7 per cent. My feeling is we want to get the best hemoglobin A1c that we can in each and every individual without the occurrence of severe hypoglycemia. In elderly patients, this hemoglobin A1c target is often set a little higher because of issues related to hypoglycemia and potentially other comorbidities. I'm Mary McDermott and I've been speaking today with Dr. Desmond Schatz about his JAMA review on the topic of type 1 diabetes. You can find a link to the article in this episode's description. For more of our podcasts, please visit us at jamanetworkaudio.com. You can subscribe and listen wherever you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Daniel Lucisi at the JAMA Network. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with All Rights Reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training and similar technologies.