From the Jamba Network, this is the Jamba Medical News podcast discussing timely topics in clinical medicine, biomedical sciences, public health, and health policy featured in the medical news section of JAMA. I'm Jennifer Abosi for JAMA Medical News. In early 2021, about a year into the CO 19 pandemic, I wrote about data that was emerging on how SARS KV2 infection affected the heart. I wrote at the time that the most important question was a clinical one. What would CO 19 associated heart injury mean over the short-term and long-term for the tens of millions of people around the world infected with the virus? Today, more than four years later, many studies have been conducted on this topic, and we have some answers. A new clinical consensus statement from the European Society of Cardiology provides guidance on reducing and managing cardiovascular disease across all stages of CO 19, including acute infection, long COVID, and vaccination. I recently spoke with the report's lead author, Dr. Vasilios Vasilio. He's a clinical professor of cardiac medicine and consultant cardiologist from the University of East Anglia in Norwich in the UK. >> Welcome Dr. Vicilia. >> Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to be with you. >> So let's start with the background on the report. So what inspired you and your co-authors to put this report together and what data did your team draw from? So we wanted to put this paper together in order to be able to inform both health professionals and public about the symptoms that are associated with the long COVID particularly the cardiac symptoms. Provide a suggested pathway of investigation. review the evidence base of management of long COVID and also identify treatments that perhaps do not show or have any evidence and try and indicate that those treatments may not be warranted. And putting this together, what we were hoping to achieve is to highlight ways of preventing long COVID. Long COVID, unfortunately, is common. It currently affects more than 100 million people globally. Somewhere in the region of 20 to 30 million people suffer from cardiac long covid. What we did was a very extensive systematic review of all the published literature on the topic. We reviewed every single paper that was relevant to what we were looking for and we collectively reached a consensus on what we felt was appropriate to suggest as clinical advice for each of the areas that we wanted to review. >> Before we talk about long co, I'd like to hear from you what you learned about some of the cardiovascular complications that can occur with acute co 19 infection. So the cardiovascular complications of acute COVID are very clear. Acute COVID can affect any part of the body. The one that is predominantly affect this respiratory system, the lungs, but also people can have strokes. They can have acute heart attacks, they can have heart failures, clots in the lungs, clots in the legs, clots in the bowel and also get neurological manifestations. So if we talk specifically about cardiovascular complications, these would be relating to heart attacks, heart failure, clots in the lungs, myocarditis, and of course arythmias. >> So now moving on to the long-term cardiovascular complications, which your group calls cardiac long CO. Let's talk about these complications. There is a plethora of conditions that can continue in the long term after COVID and what we see is people with myocarditis or pericarditis, heart failure, arhythmias, coronary disease and an autonomic dysfunction in the blood pressure something called orthostatic intolerance. And what patients get as manifestation of these diseases are chest pain, breathlessness, palpitation that is feeling the heart going fast or slow, dizziness, but sometimes something very non-specific such as fatigue. So back when long CO was just starting to be understood, I remember wondering, you know, how much of this is going to be explained by the lungs and how much of it is going to be explained by the heart and of course there are many other organs involved, but what do we know now about lung COVID and the heart? How much of the fatigue, those classic symptoms that we were hearing about can be explained by the cardiovascular system? So I think what we know is probably one in five people with long COVID have cardiac symptoms. And whilst not everybody with breathlessness, not everybody with fatigue does have an underlying cardiac condition relating to long COVID, we know that for some of them that is the case. And this was something that we looked at very carefully in trying to provide some advice and strategy on how colleagues can investigate patients that present with breathlessness. And then we for example separated breathlessness with normal cardiovascular basic examinations, breathlessness with an abnormal chest X-ray and trying to discern exactly this breathlessness. Is it coming from the lungs or is it coming from the heart? And following appropriate investigations, these may become clear for many patients, but there will still be a cohort of patients that probably have involvement of both lungs and heart. And the same is true about the other symptoms. We know that fatigue can relate to the heart, but it can also relate to the lungs and virtually any part of the body. So what we wanted to see is if the fatigue relates to the heart which test is more likely to identify this. So at least we know we can discuss this with the patients and we can reach an informed decision about where we go from there. >> So who is most at risk for cardiac long co? There are certain predictors, some of them which we can modify and some of them which we cannot modify. We know that sex plays a factor. So women are about 50% more likely to get long COVID. We know that individuals who are older are more likely to get COVID. We also know that individuals with coorbidities including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, respiratory conditions such as asthma, COPD or individuals with anxiety and depression, they are more likely to get long COVID. One of the most significant predictors is hospitalization during the acute COVID infection. So we have seen that individuals who required more intensive care during their acute COVID infection, they're more than double the risk of developing long COVID. When it comes to the modifiable risk factors, the two that stand out is obesity and being an active smoker. And those two are the two areas that there is a scope for improvement in order to reduce both the acute complications from COVID but also see a reduction in long COVID. >> Let's talk about myocarditis. What does the body of evidence at this point tell us about the risks and outcomes of myocarditis related to infection and related to vaccination? So we know that um myocarditis can occur both as a result of acute covid infection and both as a result of vaccination. So what we know is that from infection probably 1,500 people per million of infections are affected with myocarditis. When we talk about vaccine induced micarditis, this is significantly less about 15 times less at around 100 cases per million. We know that young men are increasingly affected for both COVID infection and vaccine related myocarditis. So if we look at the proportion of who gets myocarditis, we see that young men and typically under the age of 30 under the age of 25 appear to be more represented in the people that get myocarditis. We know that treatment that follows the standard myocarditis treatment according to the American and European guidelines appears to work as much as it works in other cases of myocarditis. We also know and recommend that if somebody has had myocarditis then they should take it easy for at least three months and in case of athletes competitive or non-competitive athletes they should certainly refrain from any significant physical activity for 3 months. The vast majority of both myocarditis appear to resolve over the course of six months and this is quite encouraging. However, for some individuals, we see on imaging studies that they may still have a little bit of scar in the long term. We are still early days and therefore we don't have long-term outcomes of what it looks to be in 10 or 20 years time if somebody has some scar from myocarditis. But I think overall it would appear that patients that have recovered from myocarditis they can continue living a healthy life. However, I would like to say that with a caveat that we don't have long-term data and whilst I say the vast majority of individuals will be okay, there will be some individuals unfortunately both from the COVID infection and from the vaccine infection that do not fare as well. Now, a major concern several years ago when I was reporting my story was that cardiac injury in CO 19 ultimately could lead to heart failure for many people down the line. What can you say about this? Now, >> I think what we have seen is that this is indeed correct. A proportion of individuals who could have had cardiac disease before COVID infection or who could have had an entirely healthy heart do suffer from complications which include heart failure. Sometimes this could have related to myocarditis. It could have related to a moardial infection because of clots occurring in the coronary arteries in relation to acute COVID infection. And ultimately in some individuals were not able to identify the cause of the heart failure. But what we have seen is that the standard therapy for heart failure as recommended by the American and European guidelines or what tends to be referred to as the four pillars of medicine. In other words, four different categories of medication. beta blockers, ACE inhibitors or related medication mineral corticoids and SGLT2 inhibitors appear to have a good prognostic benefit for these cohorts of individuals. >> Do you think time will tell more about this question? What's causing it? How prevalent it is in people who had co those types of questions. So I think certainly time will allow us to follow these people up for longer and we will be able to get more accurate epidemiological studies down the line. The slightly complicating factor at the moment is that most of the people have been affected by COVID even though this may well not have been documented. We also know that individuals would have had heart failure and did have heart failure before COVID. Therefore to try and discern how much is COVID related and how much is non-COVID related but occurred soon after COVID infection or long after COVID infection can be difficult but the certain thing is that COVID does cause heart failure and therefore if there is a temporal association then we can be relatively more certain that this is due to COVID. I know another question has been whether the cardiac effects are related to the acute infection or inflammation. Where do we stand on that now? >> It may well be a bit of both. I don't think it's one or the other. So, we know that if there have been acute complications following an acute infection of COVID, then the cardiac effects could persist long term. Therefore, if somebody had a heart attack during COVID because of COVID and there is scar on the muscle of the heart, that will not go away. So, they will have to live with that as a consequence long term. We also believe that long-term inflammation as long-term low vymia from the SARS virus could lead to cardiac long co. So those are two areas that are currently being investigated in relation to long COVID. In other words, if we treat individuals with antivirals in an attempt to reduce the viral load that they may have or if we treat them with potent anti-inflammatories in an attempt to modulate the immune system and get rid of any inflammation that they may have, would it either reduce the symptoms of long COVID or shorten the duration of long COVID? And those are two areas in my view that hopefully we will be able to have a a breakthrough in terms of managing long >> COVID. So interesting. So what are some of the other research questions that you still feel need to be answered and that you're looking forward to getting answers on? >> What we need to be able to do is try and improve our risk prediction algorithm. In other words, we know that people will get more acute COVID infections and we need to get better in trying to identify who is at higher risk of long COVID but also be able to be more accurate rather than just listing a few risk factors as we discussed earlier that associate with long COVID. In other words, try and move from a population-based approach to an individual-based approach. And the other thing that would be important to identify is how much the treatments that we offer can help people. In other words, we know that cardiac rehabilitation, for example, can help with cardiac longcoid, but can we identify which individuals it is likely to help more? Can we identify which individuals it is likely to help less and therefore be able to target it appropriately? But ultimately what we discuss about photherapy in longcoid notably with antivirals and anti-inflammatory drugs is what is likely to influence the management of many patients in the future. >> Let's move on to the clinical takeaways for clinicians who are listening to this episode. So what are the key messages you want to get across for preventing and managing some of the most common cardiovascular outcomes that can occur across the spectrum of CO 19? >> One of the messages is that our document is hopefully an easy read and everybody should try and read it. But getting a bit more to the point, I think it's important to highlight that cardiac lancovit is common and often patients present with what could appear to be unusual symptoms or signs and therefore it needs to be considered. Once any acute conditions have been excluded, then cardiac longcoid should be considered. It's important to educate our patients, especially the ones that have had an acute serious COVID infection, of what they need to look out for that could relate to long COVID. And then we should aim to provide a multi-disiplinary and personalized approach in investigating patients with suspected long COVID in order to get to the diagnosis or refute the diagnosis and then have a discussion with the patients. We may not be able to cure long COVID, but we may be able to offer things that can help patients improve their quality of life. And also sometimes it is important to acknowledge >> this content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all even though we might not go for text and data mining, AI training and similar technology away very quickly. The other important message is that there is evidence for some therapies, but we also know that there are some therapies that have absolutely no evidence. For example, plasma exchange or hyperbaric oxygen and in fact those could lead to harm to the patients. Therefore, in our document, we advise against using any therapy that has not been shown to be beneficial in a study. But ultimately, we hope to increase the education both for the patients and for our colleagues and provide the diagnostic pathway of how to investigate patients that present with potential cardiac longit. Now for the primary care physicians, the internists who may be listening, what are the signs that they should be looking for or recommending their patients look for and what's the followup then? Who should they be following up with? >> The main symptoms that could relate to cardinal COVID include breathlessness, chest pain, palpitations, dizziness, fatigue, and orthostatic intolerance. It can be important to try and identify and document any such events. For example, by doing lying and standing blood pressure, considering tilt test or monitoring of the heart for one, two, three or five days and of course undertaking an ECG and electroc cardiogram and an echoc cardiogram to look at the function of the heart. And depending on what those initial investigations show and those investigations could be undertaken by the family physician by the intern attorney or after a referral to a cardiologist then more specialized tests such as a cardiovascular magnetic resonant test a cardiac MRI can be considered for a group of patients that I wouldn't recommend that everybody should see a cardiologist in order to get a cardiac MRI but a group of individuals may well benefit from that. So the investigations and who undertake the investigations would depend a lot on the setting. A lot of these simple non-invasive tests could be undertaken by the family physicians. >> Thank you so much Dr. Basilio. Really enjoyed speaking with you. >> Thank you very much. It's a pleasure to have been here. >> That's it for this episode. I'm Jennifer Abbasi, director of Jamba Medical News. This episode was produced by Shelley Stefins at the Jamba Network. To follow this and other Jamba Network podcasts, please visit us online at jambetetworkaudio.com. Thanks for listening and join us again next time. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.