Hello and welcome to J Live. I'm Seth Trier, digital mediator at jamin. Of course, if you're following live, send your question or comments on Twitter or in the comment box on the YouTube or Facebook live videos. Today we are talking about the association between receipts of unemployment insurance and food insecurity among people who lost un who lost employment during the co9 pandemic in the US. We have first author Dr. Julia Ripman with us. Welcome Dr. Ripman. Thank you for having me. Oh, so you know, yeah, really glad you could join. This is a really interesting topic. Uh, of course, it's important and affects a lot of people. So, uh, tell us, uh, you know, why, you know, who you are and why you did the study. I'm Julia Rafeman. I'm an assistant professor at the Boston University School of Public Health and I conduct research on how health and social policies shape population health and health disparities. And we did this study because we started to look at the policies that were changing during the CO 19 pandemic. We have actually been tracking the policies that on the COVID US state policy database and we saw that there was a lot of research going on into physical distancing policies and mask orders and COVID prevention. We saw there was a lot less research on social policies that are equally or even more important for shaping health. Uh things like unemployment insurance policies uh minimum wage policies, eviction freeze policies. Uh and we also saw that there was a lot of variation in unemployment insurance policies by state. So we thought that was an important topic to investigate. Yeah. And this is you know I'm I'm a uh medical doctor not a social scientist but uh you know this is something that that I follow a bit and it always seems to me you know intuitive that if you give people money then that it'll be easier in hard times. Um but the data on that doesn't you know we always need data for stuff and that that makes sense to us intuitively. So tell us what you did and what you found. Yeah, I think the co 19 pandemic is a really important opportunity to understand how policies that are important for people in all times are shaping health because we have data like never before. Uh and unfortunately we have a lot of people who are experiencing these challenges all at once. Uh but that also means that it's possible for us to study dynamics unlike ever before. And so so that's what we did with this study. We linked uh we used data from the understanding America study. Uh this is a study run by the University of Southern California and they um they've done a fantastic job following about 8,000 participants uh since the outset of the pandemic uh every two weeks they collect data and what we did is we focused on people who were in low and middle inome households earning less than $75,000 and who lost work during the pandemic. We decided to compare people who uh who lost work who did and didn't receive unemployment insurance and follow them over time. And we looked at what happened to their food insecurity um and uh eating less due to financial constraints uh as the pandemic progressed and and there were very high rates of unemployment that were concentrated among people in low-income households. And what we found is that uh unemployment insurance uh received was associated with a 35% reduction in food insecurity and a 48% reduction in eating less due to financial constraints. And then we also were able to look at what happened when the car's act $600 supplement um $600 a week federal supplement to unemployment insurance expired. Uh and we found that that $600 federal supplement to unsure unemployment insurance was associated with almost a double uh reduction in food insecurity. Um so it uh it really made a big difference. We also um to further investigate this question looked at how the amount of unemployment insurance that people receive was associated with food insecurity and and we did find that the more people received the less likely they were to report food insecurity. Yeah. Oh, go ahead. No, please go ahead. Um, yeah, so we we think that the u the unemployment insurance as a whole and um and the car's act federal supplement played a really important role um in reducing food insecurity at a time when when so many people are vulnerable to it, right? Yeah. And that's all great work. That makes a lot of sense. Going to welcome Trong Kong Trong who's joined us. Welcome. We're talking about food insecurity and social support or federal support during the um COVID pandemic. Um, you know, again, some of these numbers are just shocking. You know, these are people who make $75,000 a year or less. And is it was it 35 to 40% had food insecurity or were eating less due to financial constraints in the survey, which is really impressive. And not surprisingly, it was concentrated in people who made less than $20,000 a year, which is, you know, pretty pretty serious. Uh, you know, not being able to eat is is bad, right? Yeah. I um you know I think this was a really important u outcome and and um a new outcome for me to look at. I have focused a lot of my work on mental health and part of what led me to look at this outcome was uh seeing that the initial data on mental health during the pandemic really suggested first of all that everyone is doing badly um and everyone's doing worse than usual but the people who are doing worst of all are people who are in low-income households. And I, you know, I think being able to eat enough food is is really elemental to our to being a human being and and that's what we see. It's just it's really distressing for people who don't have enough to eat. Unfortunately, it's also concentrated um in households with children. So levels of food insecurity are greater in households with children. And uh and like with so many aspects of the pandemic and um and unemployment during the pandemic, we also saw that there were large racial and ethnic disparities in food insecurity. Um and we know that black and Hispanic people were more likely to lose work, but they were actually less likely to receive unemployment insurance. Yep. And unfortunately, what we've seen throughout the pandemic is basically, you know, a sinking tide sinks the smallest ships first in uh to make a really bad analogy. Um and just those who are the most vulnerable you know had some of the the worst outcomes across the board and you know with the the combination of pandemic and then the the you know response to the pandemic which is you know very costly for a lot of people you know if we can't have an economy because you get sick and die out in the economy it's it's bad for everybody. Um but it's good to see you know that some of the support has actually shown some work. Um and you know this is again I'm I'm not a uh a specific student at this but from from what I the data I come across it's simple stuff if you give people money when they don't have enough money they do better if you give home similar you know what I've seen with homeless with uh people who are experiencing homelessness is that if you give people who don't have homes homes there is less homelessness it works out well for people doesn't solve all the problems but it helps. Yeah absolutely and I I think uh I think there are several lessons that we learned from this moment. um about how we might improve our unemployment insurance system and and one aspect of that is covering more people. Um unfortunately um most people actually did not receive unemployment insurance, those people who lost work. Uh and that's what we see across the country. Uh there have been some nice um stories on this and how that's the case uh throughout um like during the the great recession as well um and and that that was the case during the pandemic too. So the car's act expanded who could receive unemployment insurance. So that people who were gig workers and people who did part-time work and people who were excluded from unemployment insurance because they actually earned too little um that uh some of them were able to qualify for unemployment insurance during the pandemic. But we still saw even with those expansions that most people who lost work didn't receive unemployment insurance. So I think that's really important um to think about how we can expand unemployment insurance to reach more people in the future. Also just seeing the role of the amount of unemployment insurance and how that was associated with food insecurity. I think that's really important uh to think about for improving improving unemployment insurance. Um and then part of the reason that we've seen few people covered by unemployment insurance is that states have had a challenge administering unemployment insurance especially during a time of crisis. But uh I think consider reconsidering how we administer unemployment insurance and whether we might federalize it, those are are important considerations to make for the future. Um and then I think just thinking seeing the results on mental distress and how much people in low-income households are depending on unemployment insurance for their most basic needs such as food insecurity. Uh that suggests we might consider automatic stabilizers in which um in times of crisis um people u may have u the opportunity to have uh unemployment insurance amounts and duration automatically increase. Excellent points. So we've got Brock Ellen Arth Barbosa who joined us as well. We're talking about employment insurance uh in during the co pandemic and food insecurity. Um so that's taking us right around to the end of our time. Anything else you want to add here before we close up? No, thank you so much and thanks for bearing with me as we have some kiddos in the background part of the pandemic experience. Yep. You know, I think it's something we can all relate to. Uh right before uh we hopped on, we had a whole thing with my wife, my dog, and painting the closet behind me. So, we all relate to that now. Um and again, you know, this is one of those things where uh you know, it's the pandemic. A lot of people are losing their jobs uh because we have to basically shut them down in the economy so we don't all get sick. Um and part of it is trying to mitigate the the uh the health, mental health, and really day-to-day life effects of it all. So, thank you so much for joining us, Dr. Rickman. Thank you. Thank you for having me. It was a privilege to be here. Great. Thanks. Of course, uh uh you know, you can you can get this article and more at gemin.com where everything is free and open access. Uh we've got new articles coming every day at 10:00 a.m. Central time. and join us next week uh February 9th uh at 3 p.m. Central again for the next episode of Jan Live. So take care and stay safe.