Abnormal near-point convergence, smooth pursuits, saccades, vestibular-ocular reflex, and visual motion sensitivity findings may indicate vestibular and/or oculomotor dysfunction associated with concussion and should prompt appropriate follow-up. The results of these tests are combined to create the Vestibular/Oculomotor Screening tool, or VOMS, that was developed at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, and it is now used in specialty clinic followup for concussion assessment. Before testing, ask the patient about headache, dizziness, nausea, and brain fog. Testing may provoke symptoms but should not cause severe or prolonged worsening of symptoms. Ask the patient to follow a slowly moving target held about 3 ft or 90 cm away. Normal smooth pursuits are smooth, symmetric, and continuous. Hold 2 targets about 3 ft apart at arm's length or a 3-foot viewing distance and ask the patient to refixate their eyes on the targets at a self-paced rate without moving their head. Normal saccades are fast, accurate, and symmetric. Move a small target toward the nasal bridge and record the distance at which double vision occurs or ocular misalignment is observed. A convergence distance greater than 5 to 6 centimeters from the nose is abnormal. Only if the neck can be moved comfortably and safely, set a metronome for 180 beats per minute, and assess the vestibular-ocular reflex by asking the patient to maintain fixation on a target while the head is rotated from side to side, consisting of small rapid head turns, about 20 degrees each side, for about 10 repetitions at a brisk but controlled pace. Observe for inability to maintain fixation on the target and/or provocation of headache, dizziness, nausea, or brain fog. Visual motion sensitivity is assessed by asking the patient to keep their eyes fixed on a target, like their thumb, while turning the head from side to side, about 80 degrees in each direction, for 5 repetitions at a steady pace, metronome at 50 beats per minute. Observe for provocation of headache, Note, any unsteadiness or worsening of symptoms.