>> Thank you and good afternoon. It's an honor to be with you. As Dr. Balkner [phonetic spelling] just mentioned, I'm going to spend the next few minutes discussing a trial that we have just completed using a randomized controlled mechanism to study the role of vitamin C in patients with septic ARDS. And, as you can see, this was published yesterday in JAMA. Specifically, this trial addresses the use of high dose intravenous vitamin C on the, to study the effects organ failure and the effects of vitamin C on inflammation and vascular injury biomarkers in patients with sepsis-induced ARDS. As everybody in this room knows, we continue to have a global scourge of sepsis. Fleischman and colleagues in 2016 reported that in first and second world countries that the incidence of ARDS was 31 million individuals with greater than 6 million deaths. The study did not include third world countries where medical care is less than that that's practiced in first and second world countries. In the Lung Safe trial Ballani [phonetic spelling] and colleagues showed that ten percent of all patients admitted to intensive care unit developed acute respiratory distress syndrome. And as we all know, and the patients that you all have suffered with, that there's a 25 to 45% mortality and that depends in a great deal on comorbid conditions such as underlying heart failure, diabetes, systemic arterial hypertension, pulmonary hypertension that led up to the development of sepsis and ARDS. And it's important that patients who survive ARDS suffer long-term morbidity, disability, and that there is a high frequency of post-traumatic stress disorder, and recently was published that patients surviving ARDS have a heightened mortality in the five years after they have developed ARDS and survived the condition. So the thrust of this talk is about sepsis-induced ARDS. And many of you in the room have struggled with the x-ray that's on the right. The important thing is ARDS was first described in 1967 in a non-military setting at the University of Colorado. And in the five decades that have come downstream since that time there has been tremendous basic science as well as clinical science research but no effective pharmacotherapy has ever occurred throughout all of these years as a result of the research and there has been a significant amount of research that's conducted both by individuals in this organization as well as in the United States and other countries. I would like to first give you a little bit of the backstory on vitamin C. Borrelli and colleagues in the mid-1990s showed that low levels of plasma vitamin C was a constant feature in patients with sepsis. They also showed that low plasma vitamin C levels inversely correlated with the incidence of multiple organ failure. And very importantly, as you will see in my comments today, low plasma vitamin C levels correlate directly with survival. Low levels, low survival. We asked the question will repletion of vitamin C alter the outcome of sepsis-induced ARDS? I first would like for you to focus on this image. This report came from Padeyally [phonetic spelling] and colleagues who were working in the laboratory of Mark Levine at the NIH. And if you look at the red stippled area, you can see that even high doses of intravenous vitamin C, when given orally, do not achieve any kind of a heightened plasma level. As we are all sitting here today, a normal diet maintains humans at about a level of 70 miromolar and if you'd look at the insert graph there on the right, you can see that even supplementing someone to over one gram of vitamin C never achieves a level of greater than 200 micromolar versus the triangular image so that increasing concentrations infused intravenously give higher concentrations in the plasma. And so if you look at where I've got IV drawn here -- is there a pointer? There's not a pointer. With a finger? Here? So if you look at intravenous infusion here, it's important to be able to get plasma vitamin C levels up to a very high level. And when plasma vitamin C reaches these high levels, it becomes something more than a vitamin. It becomes an anti-inflammatory agent. So I want to first get everyone to look at this image. Vascular endothelium has very important sodium vitamin C transporters to as well as alveolar type 1 epithelium that has important sodium vitamin C transporter 2. When vitamin C is infused into the circulation, the vitamin C immediately binds to the active transporter sodium vitamin C transporter 2. It is then actively transferred across vascular endothelium into the interstitial space of lung. It is then picked up by the sodium vitamin C transporter 2 located on alveolar epithelium and it is pushed then into the alveolar space. And vitamin C as a micronutrient can penetrate from plasma all the way into the alveolar space which makes it particularly effective as a target treatment for acute respiratory distress syndrome. In my laboratory now for approximately twelve years we have been studying vitamin C both in animals as well as humans. Our basic research started about ten years ago when we created an animal model of sepsis of abdominal peritoneal sepsis in wild type mice. When mice were injected with feces into the peritoneum to replicate surgical sepsis, animals became very septic suffered multiple organ failure, and all developed acute lung injury. When we gave the animals parenteral, not oral, but parenteral vitamin C after the animal had become septic, we showed that lungs exhibited a marked decrease in cytokine and chemokine expression. We showed that there was a dramatic reduction in neutrophils infiltration into the vasculature of the lung as well as into the air spaces of the lung. We also showed -- some of you may not be familiar with this -- a marked decrease in neutrophil extracellular trap formation where neutrophils, appropriately stimulated, unwind their genomic DNA and disgorged the DNA along with active enzyme systems containing myeloproxidase, certain metalloproteinases, matrix metalloproteinases, as well as acid hydrolases, and when cell-free DNA, being disgorged from DNA, lodges into the microvasculature, that injures the vasculature. But interesting, we showed that vitamin C dramatically increased alveolar fluid clearance by upregulating epithelial sodium channels and aquaporin channels that empty moisture from the air space and conduct it back into the interstitium of the lung. And finally, vitamin C in these preliminary studies, pre-clinical studies, maintained lung barrier function in septic animals. We used this data to put together a small phase I safety trial that we conducted around 2012, giving high doses of intravenous vitamin C to patients in very early severe sepsis. And in that small trial which only had 24 patients we showed that there was a decrease in the organ failure as assessed by the sequential organ failure assessment score, and to two biomarkers that we measured, C-reactive protein and thrombomodulin, C-reactive protein being a general indicator of systemic inflammation, thrombomodulin being a rough indicator of vascular injury. Around that time National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute at NIH had put out a UM1 program and we submitted a proposal to the NIH proposing to conduct a trial, Vitamin C Infusion for Treatment In Sepsis-Induced Acute Lung Injury, a trial that we have called now CITRIS-ALI. A colleague at work said if you don't get citrus in the title, you're in trouble. So we got citrus in the title. But specifically we were studying sepsis-induced ARDS. This was a 96-hour intravenous infusion of vitamin C. Patients received 50 milligrams per kilogram of body weight every six hours infused. And this was continuous over a 96-hour period. We proposed to the NIH to do a phase IIa multicenter proof of concept trial that was double blind, randomized, and placebo-controlled. Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, Virginia was the lead center. The Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio, and a sister institution, the Fairview Medical Center, was an enrollment site. The Medical College of Wisconsin in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and a sister institution, the St. Luke's Medical Center, another large medial center in Milwaukee, the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Kentucky, and Emory University in Atlanta. So we had seven enrollment sites. >> Barry, five minutes. >> Okay. Our primary outcomes were sequential organ failure assessment score, plasma C-reactive protein, and thrombomodulin. Our secondary outcomes were many but the ones I am reporting here today were ventilator-free days and ICU-free days at day 28; hospital-free days at day 60; and all cause mortality at day 28. The inclusion criteria, patients had to have severe sepsis; ARDS has to be defined by the Berlin criteria; had to be an PaO2/FiO2 ratio less than 300; endotracheal tube had to be in place and the patient was receiving mechanical ventilation; chest imaging had to show bilateral opacities; ARDS criteria had to be met within a 24-hour period after the onset of sepsis; and there was no evidence of left heart failure. We excluded patients who had an allergy to vitamin C; if we were unable to obtain informed consent; if there was a greater than 48 hours since the development of ARDS and we were unable to obtain informed consent; pregnant females were excluded; patients on home mechanical ventilation by tracheostomy; patients with severe interstitial lung disease; and finally patients that moribund and not expected to survive. Here is our enrollment. We screened 1,262 patients. We excluded 1,092 for a total of 170 that were randomized. After randomization, we discovered that one patient in the placebo group had acute eosinophilic pneumonia and that patient was excluded and never received vitamin C. And in the vitamin C group there was alveolar hemorrhage in two post-bone marrow transplant patients who were septic and those two patients were excluded for a total of 83 placebo and 84 vitamin C. The groups were very homogenous between male and female and the groups, the PaO2/FiO2 ratios were statistically significant and the patients were all ventilated according to the ARDS [inaudible] criteria. The patients in the vitamin C group received 50 milligrams per kilogram of vitamin C every six hours for 96 hours. We used the sequential organ failure assessment score as originally described by Vincent and colleagues except over the course of the trial we had to eliminate bilirubin as part of this trial and so that we modified the SOFA score to only include five of the six organ failures. And a publication listed there in the bottom has shown that it does not really impact the SOFA score. This is a box plot of the plasma ascorbate levels. The red dotted line that you see is the line below which vitamin C depletion is critical, termed hyposcorbia. And you can see at enrollment the orange and blue box plots were virtually identical. And you can see the effect of vitamin C infusion over the 96-hour period. You can also note what happened to the blue boxes, that it never really achieved anything above 28 micromolar so these patients in the placebo group remained vitamin C deficient. One of the unfortunate things, and we can talk about this at length at another time, is we were unable to show that vitamin C had an impact on the modified sequential organ failure assessment score and you can see the results of the boxes there. Additionally, we did not show a difference in C-reactive protein in this trial between the vitamin C and the placebo group for C-reactive protein. And the same was true for thrombomodulin. We were unable to show that thrombomodulin was diminished in the vitamin C group relative to the septic group. Important other secondary outcomes that we examined, ventilator-free days, there was a trend towards ventilator-free days but it was not statistically significant. What was significant is that vitamin C treated patients had a significant increase in intensive care unit-free days at day 28. Additionally, patients in the vitamin C group had a significant increase in hospital-free days to day 60. And then finally, here is the Kaplan-Meier curve where we showed, first of all I would like for you to focus on this red stippled area. This is the period of vitamin C administration. You can see the dramatic increase in mortality in the placebo group versus the vitamin C group. And then the important thing here is to look at how the levels essentially parallel each other after discontinuation of the vitamin C. The important thing is this trial showed that our placebo patients had a 46% mortality. The vitamin C patients had a 30% mortality. In post hoc analysis this mortality statistic was maintained to day 60. So in summary, high dose intravenous vitamin C as the way we administered it, 50 milligrams per kilogram every six hours infused for 96 hours, was safe. Unfortunately the trial did not detect an effect on modified SOFA scores or biomarkers, but what we did find was a treatment effect that was significant for intensive care unit-free days at day 28, hospital-free days at day 60, and importantly, a 28-day all cause mortality was reduced by infusing vitamin C into patients with septic ARDS. In the future, I think the future for vitamin C is interesting and hopefully this small trial will be the beginning of larger trials. I am a member of the pedal network in the United States and we are planning a much larger trial giving vitamin C that should be enrolling the first patients by this coming February. And other issues would be the exact vitamin C dose, does that need to be increased above the level that we gave? And finally, this study had certain limitations. It was based on the phase I trial which was small, and it possibly was underpowered to show an effect on the SOFA scores. And I might add that in that first, small safety trial patients were enrolled in vitamin C to receive it extremely early at the outset of sepsis, whereas in the CITRIS-ALI trial it required not only a patient to be septic, but to have developed ARDS and sometimes, as everybody in this room knows, that may be one to sometimes up to three days before someone has clinically developed ARDS. And finally, there is the issue that may have affected our results of death and ICU graduation that were different rates. If you look at that first part of the Kaplan-Meier curve, you see the extreme mortality in the placebo groups. The way that calculated out was 19 patients in the first 96 hours of treatment as opposed to only four patients in the vitamin C group. And in the vitamin C group nine patients graduated from the ICU while only one in the placebo group graduated. Finally, I would like to just say, and I know that many people in this audience have participated in clinical trials and I would like to just give a list of all the individuals at Virginia Commonwealth University, the Medical College of Wisconsin, Cleveland Clinic, University of Kentucky, and Emory University, and thank those individuals. They were all clinical trialists who were very important to constructing this trial. I would like to thank the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute for their funding, for VCU Center for Clinical and Translational Research that was important for helping me create the proposal. And then finally to McGuff Pharmaceuticals of Santa Ana, California, for supplying the vitamin C for the trial at no cost. Their product is called Ascor. Thank you very much. [ Applause ] >> Thank you, Barry. We're a little behind on time but I think there may be some questions so if people can come up to the microphone. While someone's coming up, I just want to read the title of the editorial, "Is High Dose Vitamin C Beneficial for Patients with Sepsis?" by Emily Brandt and Derrick Angus. First question. >> Good afternoon. Congratulations with the publication of this interesting trial. I was wondering, it seems rather remarkable that the SOFA score is not correlated with the mortality. How did you handle the patients who died with regard to SOFA score? >> We did not handle the patients who died with reflect to the SOFA score but I've had many people urging me to give the people who died a SOFA score of 24. And if we had done that, we would obviously have seen the difference. But the SOFA scores were only calculated on the survivors. >> Okay. So I think that might explain the differences between the SOFA score results and the mortality. >> If we had noted the death rates. But we did not count the SOFA scores in the individuals who died. >> Thank you. >> Thank you very much for your talk here. Just a quick question [inaudible] point of view there is a weight for the [inaudible] test. There is a better weight for the early deaths as compared to the late deaths. What was the advantage of a tendency if you use a simple test such as [inaudible] test, for example? With no particular weight for early deaths, you don't mention the [inaudible] test which favor, it give a lot of weight to the early deaths and not at all to the late deaths so is the result is similar or not similar if you use a [inaudible] test? >> Well, I think that's like Dr. Spolestra [phonetic spelling] has mentioned. We did not calculate the SOFA scores on the people who died within that first 96 hours. >> Was talking about mortality, day 28 mortality. >> I'm sorry? >> I was speaking about day 28 mortality, no test, that the survivor test that you use is increasing the weight for the early deaths and not at all taking into account all the note of death you will take between day one and day 28. [Inaudible] simple test to [inaudible]. >> Maybe and I can -- . >> Separate weight. >> Maybe we can talk about this afterwards. I don't quite understand your question but the number needed to treat were six patients to save one life. >> Thank you, Barry. We'll continue with the next presentation. [ Applause ]