From the JAMAMA network, this is Jamma Internal Medicine. Author interviews, conversations with authors exploring the latest clinical research, reviews, and opinions [music] featured in JAMAMA Internal Medicine. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. This is Dr. Eve Writtenberg and you're listening to JAMAMA Internal Medicine author interviews. Thanks for joining us today. We're discussing an important topic, the impact of eliminating race-based algorithms in clinical medicine. We're going to discuss a brilliant paper that measured what happened when the US organ procurement and transplantation network changed its policy and required that kidney transplant centers recalculate the weightless time for black individuals using race-free equations of estimated glular filtration rate or eGFR. So we're joined today by the first author of this study, Dr. Rohan Kasanchi. He is a resident in the Harvard internal medicine pediatrics program at Brighamin Women's Hospital, Boston Children's Hospital, and Boston Medical Center. Welcome Dr. Kasanchi. >> Thank you for having me. >> And we are also joined by Dr. Ebony Bulwire. Dr. Bullwware is the dean of Wake Forest University School of Medicine and the Chief Academic Officer of Advocate Health. Welcome, Dr. Bullwear. >> Thank you. Great to be here. >> So, I'll start by asking Rohan if you could set the scene for us. Can you give us a little background on why just a few years ago national guidelines recommended that we stop using race to calculate GFR? Yeah. So, I think this study takes place in a context that goes back a number of years and I would say really begins farther back than many of us might anticipate because there have been conversations in the medical field and in the social sciences for decades, even generations about how race is used in medicine. And the reason that matters is we've made mistakes over time. We've mischaracterized race as a biological trait when it's in fact a social construct. And at times we've made assumptions about what race means that go beyond what the evidence shows. In 2021, amidst a larger conversation about how race was being used in medicine, the National Kidney Foundation and the American Society of Nefrology took a closer look at one particular algorithm that we use every single day in the practice of internal medicine, which is the estimated glomemeular filtration rate equation or eGFR equation. And this helps us estimate how somebody's kidney function is doing on a day-to-day basis using lab tests that we get on our basic metabolic panel, a serum, cratin level in combination with patient demographic characteristics and it previously included race. It was an example of a race-based equation. Now, when they took a closer look at the data, when there were new studies that came out that sort of offered race-free alternatives to the prior race-based eGFR equations, the MKF and ASN ended up saying, "Hey, let's change what we're doing nationally. Let's make a new recommendation based on the evidence that we have, but really also based on the fact that there was evidence that showed the prior race-based equations were causing harm. There were studies published including in Chama network journals that showed things like delays in transplant weight listing or delays in receipt of transplantation that seemed to be associated with the use of this race-based equation which specifically allocated a higher GFR value to a black patient compared to every other racial group at the same serum creatinin and sex. And so that that was the problem really is we were disadvantaging a specific racial group on the basis of their race compared to every other racial group and it was leading to clinical harms. >> It seemed fairly unique to me and I don't know if that's true that the response to this by the transplant network wasn't just like let's change things going forward but actually how can we redress some of the harm that has already been done. How did that decision sort of influence your desire to take a look at what the impact was? >> Yeah, I think that's why we wanted to do this study. Um, obviously some of my co-authors are in the field of nefrology and I think nefologists in general are very interested in this topic of how we allocate a very scarce resource which is deceased donor kidneys. But really the reason we were interested from a broader medical standpoint was this is the first example of an intervention by a national organization across the country that was seeking to actually redress the harms caused by a race-based equation. We've seen multiple specialty societies in the wake of these conversations in our field of medicine that I mentioned that have changed their clinical guidelines to remove race from an equation or algorithm that previously used it. But we haven't seen other examples of this specific redress being done, right? A remedy for the harms caused by the race-based equation. And that's what our study started with was this intervention from the organ procurement and transplantation network which basically said number one, every single transplant center across the country needs to stop using the race-based equation and shift to this new standard of care of a race-free equation for GFR. And number two, because that equation for GFR is one of the key determinants of when somebody is listed for transplant, every single transplant center in the country had to go back and look at their weight lists, identify patients who had an older value, which would have crossed the GFR threshold of 20 had it been calculated with a race-free equation and basically submit those patients to the National Transplant Network so that they could get time added back onto their weight list recognizing that weight time acrual or that time when you start adding weight time to your weight list is a key determinant of how soon you can receive a deceased donor kidney. So basically the moral of the story here is I think this was a really innovative approach and one that we didn't know the consequences of because other than descriptive data and some preliminary studies not much had been looked at from a causal inference or sort of quasi experimental standpoint to evaluate the impacts of this policy. >> So interesting. So tell us what you did in your study. Yeah. So, we were, you know, fortunate to be able to reach out to the OPN and say, "Hey, can we just get all of your data on everybody who's in the transplant weight list pool and everybody who received transplants over a number of years preceding and after this policy intervention." And we basically said, let's use time series methods, interrupted time series analysis to try and conduct a quasi experimental study that looks at the change in transplantation rates before and after this policy was implemented. And so really our key measure for this study was the level change in transplant rate um by racial group in particular looking at black patients on the weight list versus patients of other races and ethnicities. >> All right. And so tell us what you found. >> Yeah. So our key finding, our topline finding was basically trying to look at the number of modifications and how much those modifications affected folks being on the wait list. And we found that over 21,000 candidates received a wait time modification with a median increase in their weight time approval of 1.7 years. Now, this naturally increases their priority status on the weight list. And so, among black candidates, we found that the policy change was associated with an increase of 5.3 transplants per 10,000 listings. And when we broke it down by type of transplant, patients that were listed before, after diialysis, deceased donor, living donor, what we found is that there was a large increase in transplants to black candidates who were listed prior to starting dialysis. There was also an increase in candidates who were listed after starting dialysis. And there was no effect on living donor kidney transplantation. Right? In other words, no spillover effects of changing from a race inclusive to a race neutral equation on living donor transplants when living donors may have to submit a GFR value as part of their pre-donation criteria. So, it was good to not see that negative spillover effect of this policy. You know, your study was so effective for me in taking something that sort of out of the realm of abstract ideas or theories and just showing the concrete harm that these former equations used and the impact of removing them just made it so real for me to to hear those numbers. So, I'm going to turn to Dr. Blure. Um, Ebony, I I wonder if you could talk a little bit about lessons that we might take away from this study for other areas of medicine beyond kidney transplant. >> Yeah, there are so many lessons. First, I think Dr. Kazanchi said it very well that we've been using race as a proxy for some sort of biological difference among humans uh for quite some time in in modern medicine. But it's been clear for decades that race is a social and not a biological construct. And despite that well-known information, medicine broadly has been very reluctant to change this and has held on to a construct that race has some sort of biological meaning. And what is troubling is that race in and of itself is a very hard to define concept or construct. and varies from policy setting to policy setting. So if you go from one country, your race may be indicated that you're quote unquote black, but if you go to another country, you might be labeled differently. If you go to another place, you might be labeled differently. So it's a nonstable, non-biological construct that is being used to determine people's receipt of care, access to care, and care guidelines in many different areas of medicine. What this study does is actually take what was theoretical or thought to be theoretical and provides real evidence that the utilization of race in the context of clinical care in this case individual's ability to receive a lifesaving therapy really shows that that use of that was indeed harmful and it is indeed the only example that I'm aware of where with the knowledge of the potential harm. A policymaking organization changed policy and demanded a change in practice, allowing this important study to be done to show that yes indeed, individuals who had their eGFR recalculated were actually given more time. In this case, people weren't just recatategorized as having a worse GFR, which is what the changes would have been, meaning people's kidney function was would be considered worse, meaning they would be at greater priority for kidney transplant. It gave them time. In this case, time equals lives. So people's access to kidney transplant is not just theoretically beneficial to individuals. Transplant is well known to be the optimal therapy for individuals who have kidney failure. So making this change that affected tens of thousands of individuals and the process is not done yet. People are continuing to be reclassified improves the lifespan and quality of life for tens of thousands of individuals. I think it's really important also for us to put this into context of the broader picture of kidney disease in particular. Kidney failure affects nearly 800,000 individuals in the United States. It's a growing public health problem and it impacts black individuals at a four-fold greater incidence than all other individuals. And the insertion of a race modifier in the estimate of how bad somebody's kidney function is actually held people who were in greater need of receiving a transplant from receiving the very transplants that they need. So you kind of have a double whammy for black individuals, increased risk of developing kidney failure, and with a race modifier, less likely to receive a kidney transplant. >> And so sort of building on what Dr. Kazanchi was able to find in this work. Are there areas that you think are sort of ripe now for further research or for other changes in policy? >> Well, you know, this was one of the first policy changes. The changes around GFR were among the first change policy changes to occur in terms of a policy to remove race from a clinical algorithm. and then several others subsequently occurred in other areas including with cesarian sections and pulmonary function estimation. So multiple different areas have done that but there are still areas where it hasn't been done. For example, areas like thyroid function testing and some calculators around heart failure and cancer and fracture risk assessment. What's interesting is that while there's a national consensus that we should remove this type of race-based treatment, there's been a reluctance in some areas to actually create the types of policy guidelines that enforce that. This is an example of how policy can actually change practice and indeed save lives. So the bigger picture of this is that we need to go beyond the recognition of the harm of race-based medicine to developing the policies and practices that are actually going to put the goodwill in place and actually improve people's experiences and lives in the process. >> And I'll just see uh Rohan if you have any last words, things that you're interested in doing next from here. >> Yeah, so many thoughts. I think Dr. where his comments are spot on. Obviously, the first is that this goes beyond the moral and scientific arguments about racist biology. We should be specific that this is also about measurable harm. And when there is measurable harm that's, you know, committed against a specific racial group of patients, really, this is also about our patients civil rights being respected. And so our study is showing that it's feasible to achieve targeted redress for a race specific harm on a national scale. To the point of what other forms of redress might look like, I actually have another paper with some collaborators on the pulmonary function testing world and uh that paper was talking about occupational workers impairment and basic and black candidates and other candidates seek workers compensation. In some cases, they received lower payments for workers compensation because their pulmonary function was rated differently on the basis of race. And so, it's also about economic justice in that invocation. >> Great. Thank you. This conversation has been so thoughtprovoking and inspiring to me. I really appreciate talking to you both. I'm Dr. Eve Writtenberg and I've been speaking with Dr. Rohan Kazanchi and Dr. Ebony Bullwware about the impact of moving to raceneutral estimates [music] of kidney function. You can find a link to the articles we discussed in this episode's [music] description. This episode was produced by Daniel Marorrow at the Jamama Network. You can find a link to the manuscript in this episode's show notes. To follow this and other Jamama Network podcasts, please visit us online at jamamaetworkaudio.com or search for Jam Network wherever you get your podcasts. Thanks for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with all rights reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.