What people may not fully appreciate about AI at this point is Something that you might not have already heard about AI. AI and medicine. AI. There are many things that we still don't know about AI. One of the things many people don't know about AI and medicine is that it's had a long history. Artificial intelligence and health have been intertwined from the very beginning. Ultimately, AI is just math and we can build math and AI in a way that we can actually correct for biases and correct for biases in our human practice. It's not just the flashy new robot in the hospital. It's the basic technology that powers every interaction with patients and clinicians. Without all the fancy math, without the bells and whistles, simply getting people to incorporate algorithm based treatment and then to sort of extend that treatment could have a huge impact on quality of care. There's lots of attention being paid to making sure that algorithms work well and work well for everybody. There's much less attention being paid to making sure we've created the conditions for humans to work well with algorithms. But something that I would like to learn more and I would like to see more is the patient's perspective, because that is the end, you know, benefit that we want for our patients. So I think we still need to know more. The end goal oftentimes in computer science is the best area under the curve, the best accuracy, when in fact, what really matters is how does this affect patient care? I think we're going to see AI entering cameras in a way that helps our surgeons in the operating room, helps our patients in the hospital, and continues to support patient care throughout the continuum. Misdiagnosis, delayed diagnoses, and incorrect diagnoses collectively together are still the third leading cause of death. Where I see AI really moving into clinical workflows is our ability to use AI to identify who needs what and in a timely fashion. Our goal now is to make sure that the access is equitable and is available at all hospitals, big and small, so all patients have access to this and can actually have better outcomes than they currently do. Health systems are thinking really deeply about AI. They're creating really important structures like governance structures that help them manage it safely. I think that that bit of going slow to go fast will really help in the long term, bring AI to help patients and doctors and nurses and other clinicians. We have to understand what our patients are talking about. So I think over the next year, This really becomes a question of keeping up with patients who are embracing the new capacity that AI gives them to understand their own health, their own illnesses, and how to treat those illnesses.