 and alfalfa. What should clinicians and patients know about type 1 diabetes? Does stereotactic radiation provide better quality of life than whole-brain radiation for patients with multiple brain metastases? How can health systems support physician well-being? This and much more on today's JAMA Editor Summary. Hello and welcome to our listeners around the world. Today is Friday, February 20, 2026. I'm Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo, the Editor-in-Chief of JAMA and the JAMA Network. Today, I'm joined by JAMA Deputy Editor, Dr. Prithi Malani. Hi, Prithi. Let's get started. Hi, Kirsten. Let's start with a phase 3 open-label randomized clinical trial, comparing two types of radiation for brain metastases, which result when cancer originating elsewhere spreads to the brain. Whole-brain radiation delivers a moderate dose of radiation to the entire brain. A new technique spares the hippocampal region, which is, of course, important for memory. In contrast, stereotactic radiation focuses on radiating only visible tumors at a higher dose. Dr. Asher and colleagues randomly assigned 196 patients with 5 to 20 brain metastases and no prior brain-directed radiation to receive either stereotactic radiation or whole-brain radiation with hippocampal avoidance. The primary outcome was mean-weighted, patient-reported symptom severity and interference score change over six months using the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor Instrument. Investigators reported that participants treated with stereotactic radiation had improved symptoms, reduced interference with daily function, and improvements in key components of quality of life. The findings support the use of stereotactic radiation over whole-brain radiation with hippocampal avoidance to reduce symptom burden and improve quality of life. In the accompanying editorial, Dr. Chan reviews the history and current evidence surrounding stereotactic radiosurgery and whole-brain radiotherapy, noting the importance of this randomized trial. Preeti, let's turn to the JAMA research letters. Sure, Dr. Meiselbach and colleagues contributed a research letter about Medicare Advantage, which has had steady enrollment growth over the past two decades. The number of plans available to beneficiaries has also increased. However, recent reports suggest that many insurers may stop offering Medicare Advantage plans in 2026, resulting in forced disenrollment. The investigators report that from 2018 to 2024, the mean-forced disenrollment rate for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries was 1%, which increased to almost 7% in 2025 and is anticipated to reach 10% in 2026. Dr. James has a helpful editorial that explains more about interpreting plan exits and the importance of alignment between CMS, federal policymakers, and beneficiary interests. Dr. Ganguly and colleagues contributed a research letter on Medicare's G-2211 billing code, which was introduced in January 2024. This add-on code can provide primary care and certain specialist physicians an extra $16 for providing longitudinal care at an evaluation and management visit. The authors used claims and administrative data for all traditional Medicare beneficiaries to examine G-2211 billing practices during its first year, 2024. The investigators report a robust early uptake of G-2211 codes higher than for Medicare's prior care management codes, with a total of 24 million G-2211 codes billed by more than 200,000 clinicians for 10.6 million patients in 2024, which totaled $394 million in payment. The largest share of all G-2211 codes was billed by specialist physicians at 43%, followed by primary care physicians at 40%, and just over 17% was billed by other clinicians, including nurse practitioners and physician assistants. The latest JAMA viewpoints cover a topic integral to medicine, physician well-being. In his viewpoint article, Professor Atkinson frames physician care as more than just mindfulness-based programs, but rather as a moral obligation in health care practice. He writes, reframing physician care as integral to professional ethics offers an opportunity not only to protect individual clinicians, but also to hold health care institutions morally accountable for the conditions under which care is delivered. In another viewpoint, Dr. Tong and colleagues propose an integrated framework to improve physician well-being by reducing administrative friction and facilitating the deeper rewards of professional purpose. They write, systems must be built that provide enough comfort to make the work sustainable and preserve enough meaning to make the work worthwhile. The JAMA Insights article by doctors Kornia and Lipsky is on pertessis or whooping cough in adults. The authors highlight what clinicians should know about this vaccine-preventable infection, including transmission, treatment, and post-exposure prophylaxis. And the JAMA patient page this week is on an emerging public health topic, microplastics. Microplastics are plastic fragments smaller than 5 millimeters or about 1 1 1⁄16 of an inch that results from breakdown of plastic litter in the environment. It's a great read for anyone who would like to better understand how microplastics can affect health. To wrap up our clinical content, there is a collection of articles about type 1 diabetes, a condition that affects about 8.4 million people worldwide. It is most commonly diagnosed between the ages of 10 and 14 years. Doctors Jacobson and Schatz wrote an evidence-based review article on type 1 diabetes. They focus on pathophysiology and diagnosis and treatment, including insulin regimens and dosing for patients with type 1 diabetes. And the related patient page includes information like risk factors and common symptoms of type 1 diabetes for patients. The JAMA clinical reviews podcast this week features JAMA deputy editor Dr. Mary McDermott's interview with Dr. Schatz, an author of the JAMA clinical review article. Don't miss their discussion, which features the latest advances in diagnosis and treatment of type 1 diabetes. Here's a bit of that discussion. And is there an ideal way, like all of those different options, the pump, combining the ultra or the short acting with long acting, you mentioned, in Hale-Linsland? Is there an ideal way to achieve the best outcomes in type 1 diabetes? I really believe that no two patients are the same. And a lot of it depends on the patient himself or herself and what their relationship is with their provider, the resources that are available. There is so much that goes into it each and every decision. I think that more recent data would suggest that more hybrid closed loop systems, which is a continuous glucose monitor, which is feeding into a pump would lead to the best blood glucose control. But again, that's individualized. And certainly my feeling is that this is something that each and every patient should think about and discuss with their provider. And as always, there's a lot happening in health news. The JAMA Medical News team has a summary podcast that publishes every Friday with all the latest medical news. You can subscribe at jamamethicalnews.com or click on the link in this episode's show notes. Thanks, Preethi. And thanks to our listeners for tuning in to hear what's new at JAMA this week. These highlights were brought to you by Dr. Preethi Milani and me, Dr. Kirsten Bibbins-Domingo. This episode was produced by Shelley Stephens and Dr. Krista Roberts at the JAMA Network. A link to this JAMA content can be found in this episode's show notes. To follow this and other JAMA network podcasts, please visit us online at jamamethicalnews.com. Thank you for listening. This content is protected by copyright by the American Medical Association with All Rights Reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.