Some patients have a "difficult airway," meaning that endotracheal intubation for surgery or respiratory support in an emergency or critical illness becomes difficult. So how can you tell if a patient will be difficult to intubate? That's the focus of a Rational Clinical Examination systematic review published in JAMA. The authors searched the medical literature and found 62 high-quality studies of over 30,000 patients. These studies investigated the diagnostic accuracy of physical signs and bedside tests for predicting difficult endotracheal intubation. Here's what they found. Among the 10% of patients that were difficult to intubate in the studies, the strongest risk factor for difficult intubation was a prior history of having a difficult intubation. There were 4 physical examination findings that predicted a difficult intubation Number one. A class 3 upper lip bite test, which is the inability to bite any part of the upper lip with the lower incisors, signifying limited mandibular range of movement. Number 2. A distance between the hyoid bone and the mentum with thresholds ranging from <3 to <5.5 cm. Number 3. Retrognathia, defined as a mandible measuring <9 cm from the angle of the jaw to the tip of the chin or the subjective appearance of a short mandible. And number 4, a Wilson score of ≥2 or ≥3. The Wilson score comprises measures of weight, C-spine mobility, jaw mobility, retrognathia, and prominent incisors. The widely used Mallampati score measures the visibility of oropharyngeal structures. A Mallampati score of ≥3, had a positive likelihood ratio of 4.1. No risk factor or physical finding consistently ruled out a potentially difficult intubation. The authors conclude that although a variety of tests are helpful in identifying a potentially difficult intubation, the inability to bite the upper lip with the lower incisors was the best predictor. An abnormal upper lip bite test, which is easily assessed by clinicians, raises the probability of difficult intubation from 10% to greater than 60% for the average-risk patient. For a full description of the physical examination and the study's findings, click the link in the description.