Why is it that the secrets don't cause cardomigali if they both uh increase IGF? >> Good question. The answer is because they are something that naturally occurs within the body. So in other words, the concept is that your body will never self-destruct when it's secretreting its own substances. When the body does self-destruct, we have a name for that. It's called cancer, right? So in the absence of cancer, your body only produces what it can substantially handle without any negative side effects. With that said, if you stay on a secret for a long period of time, and as I said earlier, even if you're deficient over the course of time, you're still going to have a larger heart than you had when you were younger, just due to time, just wear and tear. All right. It's one of those muscles that will grow the more you're alive and the more it beats and the the more your blood pressure goes up. Everyone develops hypertension with age just due to vascular resistance. You know, body systems start to deteriorate. Kidneys start to deteriorate. The efficacy of your heart starts to deteriorate. the left ventricle lining starts to thicken, which makes the lumen or the cavity of the left ventricle smaller, which means that the amount of blood you're able to pump with each pulse is lower and therefore you're going to have more strain on your heart. When your heart is strained, it works harder. When a muscle works harder, it grows. >> So, you know, a heart failure, if you live long enough, is inevitable. And now when you're coupling that with higher level of supraphysiological hormones that help the muscle grow, it's going to be exacerbated. Secretogs do not allow your body to get into a supraysiological range because by definition suprahysiological means above the limits of your physiological capabilities. And a secret simply pushes you to your physiological capability. >> So I know it's a little complicated. I hope that makes sense though. >> It makes sense to me. Uh you're a little more medically inclined than most. [laughter] >> Yeah. Do the secrets keep on working even in older men? Maybe when their pituitary gland um isn't that um good anymore? >> Good question. keep working is subjective. It's not a well- definfined term. The answer is yes. Will they optimize? Depends on how good the gland that is being uh provoked. Uh will they optimize in a 90-year-old the same way as they'll optimize in a 40-year-old? Presumably not, >> right? Depends on the individual, but presumably not. Will they push a 90-year-old past where he is currently? Yes. Yeah. I mean, if you poke something with a stick, it's going to respond more than if you don't poke it. So, >> provoking a gland to do something will yield a response. How good is the response is going to be dependent on that individual at that point of time and their health. >> So, there's not a certain point of or age that you should switch to GH because the creatog don't work anymore. If you switch to growth hormone, you're I feel forget even from a liability litigation standpoint, from a medical health standpoint, I feel that the risk of exogenous growth hormone outweighs the benefit.