Are sunscreens safe? In this video I explain why I -even working as a dermatologist- stopped recommending the use of sunscreens, and give my recommendations to protect yourself from skin cancer and to get in enough vitamin D. Please like and subscribe. Thank you! And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. What’s the problem with sunscreens? Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals or EDC’s In sunscreens we call them the “Sunscreen Estrogenics”. "Estrogenics" are Estrogen mimicking chemicals that can cause weight-gain, depression, infertility and many types of cancer. Many people do not realize these products penetrate through our skin and get absorbed by our bodies. What are these sunscreen estrogenics? Benzophenone (BP) Scientific studies support the idea that benzophenone is estrogenic. Despite being recently named the “Allergen of the Year” by the American Contact Dermatitis Society, BP remains legal both in America and Europe. 4-methylbenzylidene camphor (4-MBC) 4-MBC, still legal in the US, banned in Europe in 2015. “Oxybenzone” is also found in sunscreens and is also estrogenic. Oxybenzone is a type of BP. I realize for most people all these chemical names are very difficult, so let’s make this easy: Anytime you find "phen" or "benz" in a word, be wary. The chemical is probably estrogenic. It doesn’t matter if “phen-” or “benz-“ is a suffix, a prefix, or wherever; if it’s I recently checked an ingredient label of a sunscreen that was presented to me (being a dermatologist) by a pharmaceutical firm: it contained Phenybenzimidazole as an UVB-filter. As you can read, this ingredient contains the “phen-” and the "benz”. Probably very estrogenic and to be avoided, right? As UVA-filters it contains 2 different ingredients, both with "benz” in it. Research has shown that 4-MBC and BP stick to the estrogen receptor so they can cause Longer-term estrogenic actions. Are there any safe sunscreens? According to dr Anthony Jay, the author of the book “Estrogeneration”, that I did an interview with in an earlier video, that you can check out right here, the only safe thing you can use is a mineral sunscreen with 20% zinc oxide. However, It seems very tough to find a mineral sunscreen with only zinc. Most also contain titanium as a mineral, and the problem with titanium is that it’s not a mineral that our body needs, and it get’s clogged up in cells, and research has not been able to show so far what will happen to these titanium clusters that stay in the cells. Zinc on the other hand is a mineral that our body needs, and many people are even deficient and supplement orally with zinc. How to protect yourself from Skin cancer? My Recommendations: physical sun-blocking by staying inside, staying in the shade, wearing clothes, hats, sunglasses… Clothes are the best sunblock. They absorb or reflect sunlight and keep your skin safe. Choose white clothing to reflect more light and keep you cooler in the summer heat. It’s even better if the clothing has a high UPF (Ultraviolet Protection Factor), which ranges from 15 (good) to 50-plus (excellent). Three things you can use to protect yourself from the sun are a hat, shade and sun protective clothing with a UPF of 50 or higher. The hat should have a broad brim to protect the neck, the ears and the face. It should also have a UPF. Before you go out and purchase a high-UPF bikini, be warned that it won’t do much to protect the rest of your skin. Rather opt for something with more coverage that is still stylish. Try this swim shirt with a UPF of 50+ for a day at the beach. Concerning Vitamin D: take it in as a supplement. Dietary sources of vitamin D are limited. The main natural source is through exposure of skin to sunlight. However, dark skin produces far less vitamin D than white skin, and, from October to April in the Europe and North America there is no ambient ultraviolet sunlight of the appropriate wavelength for skin synthesis of vitamin D. Around 85% of adults and up to 25% of children may have low vitamin D status. To protect bone and muscle health, everyone needs vitamin D supplementation on a daily basis and you should get your blood levels checked regularly to make sure you get your vitamin D levels into the optimal (that is high normal) range. You may not realize this, but vitamin D is actually a very important hormone, and getting the levels into the optimal ranges will benefit everyone. If you want to learn more about how optimizing the levels of other hormones can also benefit your skin quality, do this. Click here to go and watch this video I made on that very topic. Thank you, and see you in the next video!