How much is a reasonable amount of testosterone to take a week for a beginner? I guess as TRT. &gt;&gt; Oh, as TRT. Yeah. Um, it just depends. Like I said, I start people um my general starting point is really around 80 milligrams twice a week for test sip. Um, if I start them on cream, I start everybody at two clicks a day in the morning only just to assess how their body absorbs the cream after three or four weeks. I want to make sure they absorb it. see where those two clicks put them as an individual. After that, it's off to the races with them trying, you know, where they want to be, if they want to do twice a day or not. If their levels are at 2500 on two clicks, I might be like, "Hey, try one click now." Oh, hey, let's reduce the concentration, you know, or if their levels are 600 on two clicks, we might be like, "Cream may not be for you." I mean, we'll still try it, but you know, there's a happy medium of absorption, but it gets cost prohibitive if you're one of those poor absorbers. But um yeah, it's going to totally depend on your provider. I know providers that start people on the low end. I think 100 milligrams a week total is probably as low as one should be started and even then that's pretty darn low for most people. If you start them with frequent injections, it probably will be okay. Like if you did a daily or every other day, but most beginners aren't going to do that. Um I I just feel like a starting point of yeah 140 to 160 140 to you know somewhere in there total weekly is a good starting point. Right. And then but it's always about the individual and how they respond to it and then adjusting based on how they feel. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. For cream it also depends uh the the base in which the testosterone is uh compounded. I already shared it in another video but I've used for six years I guess uh two times three clicks a day 20% in a liposomaal base just to get levels of 1200 nanograms per dill total testosterone. Then last year I switched to HRTbase and for the to to reach the same levels I can get away with two times two clicks. &gt;&gt; Nice. &gt;&gt; Y less cream it's uh cheaper for me. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. That's still the same. &gt;&gt; Exactly. And that's my I want to help people with the cost part of it too. So I'm always like I start everybody with a Trievis base because that's easy to get here. I think it's a little edge above HRT as far as it's but they're very similar and I I had good result. I started with HRT base. I like a Trievis as far as the um consistency of it, the way it dries a little better, but otherwise it's pretty equivalent as far as um absorption and levels. The liposomaal, yeah, I have not seen I I feel and I can't remember I have talked to my wife about it. Liposal tends to be better for females to the vaginal mucosa. I think it's specifically best for that area and when guys try to use it on scrotal or even regular skin, it's just not going to absorb the same way. I have to confirm that. But I think that's the deal with liposomaal. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, I get the same absorption from four clicks total instead of six clicks on the liposomaal base. &gt;&gt; Nice. Yeah.