How Often Should You Train a Muscle? In other words what is the best training split for natural bodybuilders? In this video we'll talk about training frequency and we're starting right now! Welcome to my channel, I am Steven, the Lifting Dermatologist, a Belgian doctor with 30 years of weight lifting experience, and the author of “Flexibel Dieet en Krachttraining”. If you want to learn more about fitness and nutrition, hormones and anti-aging, please Like and Subscribe, all this to optimize your life overall. And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. Since training frequency, volume and intensity are so interrelated, frequency really depends on how much you’re doing each workout, and the intensity you are working with. It also depends on your training age or experience. When you’re a beginner, everything seems to work. In my first decade of training, most of the time I did the typical ‘bro splits’, working each muscle group on a different day, with a frequency of only once per week. That worked fine for me, as it does for almost all beginners. Of course you have to put in a lot of volume, and a lot of intensity during each workout, since you’re working the muscle group only once each week. Later on I performed full body workouts, 3 times per week, but had to do lower volumes, and lower intensity in each of those workouts, and still that took me over 2 hours each training! Nowadays I workout 3 times per week, alternating upper / lower body, each time for 90 minutes max. This way I train each muscle group 3 times in 2 weeks, making it a relative low frequency of 1.5 per week. I had several people asking me how that can be enough to obtain a physique like mine. But if only they would realize the amount of volume and even more intensity I put in each workout, performing 4 to 5 sets of the compound exercises reverse pyramid training style, taking every set nearly to the limit, and if only they would feel how exhausted I am afterwards, surely they would understand. Don’t take me wrong, I don’t take every set to failure, I keep 1 or 2 reps in reserve, and track my weekly progress, still trying to hit PR’s, and note the Rate of Perceived Exertion (RPE) after each set. I know from experience -believe me I have tried- that if I would do a fourth workout each week, with the same volume and intensity, I would not be able to recover. Of course, if you prefer to work out more frequently, that’s completely fine, but you will have to lower the volume and/or intensity. But personally, once I’m in my gym, warmed up, and with the right mindset, I just like to go all the way, and max out volume and intensity in that particular session. Maybe you have seen videos of me before that focussed on my physique. Yes, I have been much fatter, and yes, I have exaggerated cutting and lost a lot of muscle as well. I have regained that muscle doing lean bulks, alternated with light to moderate cutting phases, to get the physique where I am at for the moment. I guess I have reached my natural genetic potential, being on TRT to optimize my hormonal levels within the physiological ranges since June 2017. If this is your first time on this channel and you want to learn more about fitness and nutrition, supplements and hormonal optimization, make sure to subscribe, and click here to check out the videos in this playlist about TRT and hormone optimization HOT.