One commonly overlooked cause of acne on TRT is an immune system reaction to the carrier oil. Can you take Accutane well on TRT? And if so, is there anything to be careful about? Yeah, I'll answer that one. Of course, you can take Accutane. The that's the brand name. Eotinoin is the molecule name, the generic name. Uh so it's used for acne and sibic skin. If you take Accutin, your skin will dry out. So being on TRT will stimulate the seabone production. So it will even be better and lessen the side effects of drying out. So I can't see why you shouldn't um take them together if you both need them. Of course I have a lot of teenagers on um Accutane isotriinoine and of course they also have high levels of testosterone. So I don't see any problem. Um the things that you should be careful about are the things uh drying out your skin ex especially your lips. Um exposure to the sun your be most more sensitive to burning if you are have a fair skin type and uh not becoming pregnant for the women or trans men. Now um those those are the most important things. Yeah it's very important men don't become pregnant. Um yeah and just to just to kind of touch on the the topic obviously the reason why people are looking to take Accutane is because of acne. One thing that we find uh in Australia one thing that we're blessed with in Australia is we have access to cipionate ananthate sustenon every different carrier oil. Um, and one thing that I know Jordan Grant uh has recently started speaking about as well because um when people become aware of this then it becomes quite obvious is that one of the causes of acne. We know that TRT in some circumstances will make acne worse. If the dose is too high, if the injection frequency is too low, these things will either cause acne or they'll make acne worse because the levels are too high. there's too much sebum production. Um, there's a lot of reasons that everyone kind of knows about for that, but one commonly overlooked cause of acne on TRT is an immune system reaction to the carrier oil. So, what I found is about somewhere between 1 in 10 and 1 in 20 guys will react to cotton seed oil, sesame oil, or grape seed oil. So, and I I was doing a case study the other day that I was putting together for my friends over at Victory. You know, we had a guy come in who had, you know, free testosterone level in like the top quartile of the reference range. So, still within range. Uh he'd been on treatment for six months doing three injections a week, you know, perfect diet, no alcohol, no other inflammatory markers. And he was saying, you know, I want to put my dose up because I don't have symptom resolution, but my acne is just horrific. and same and you know in Australia the quite common testosterone preparation is primmaestin which is a pre-loaded syringe from Baya which comes in castor oil and we've seen this a bunch of times where if we transfer these guys over to an MCTbased solution which I think is the best because it draws and injects really quickly it's a much thinner oil so you can have a much quicker injection process you can use a smaller needle it will flow really well through a 29 gauge um so not only is it a nicer oil for everyone to use, but it's very very unlikely to have an immune reaction to MCT and acne completely resolved. So, if someone's in a situation being like TRT is giving me acne and you know, I've dialed in all other aspects of what should be causing acne problems and I've I've done everything else, see if your provider can swap the carrier oil ideally to MCT, otherwise to grape seed oil if that's not the one you're currently using. And that can be really helpful for a lot of guys with these stubborn issues.