What would you recommend at men over 50 beginning TRT to start working out for the first time? I guess there are still a lot of men over 50 when they do have to start TRT. They've never worked out. You're recommending resistance training for. If you've never worked out in your life, um then you're likely not even doing the basic daily activity either that you need to be doing. So, I usually start uh by at least having them track their daily step count and aiming for 8 to 10,000 steps a day. Um, and then adding in some longer walks of 20 to 30 minutes at least after dinner would be ideal for um kind of the blood sugar regulation benefits. And then if at all possible, working with a personal trainer at least a few times before just jumping into going to the gym regularly so that they become more comfortable and confident in what they're doing. Um because so often I see both young and older guys getting injured after starting testosterone because they feel better. They feel like they want to do more. They feel like they um have, you know, they have way more strength they've ever than they ever had in their life. And then they get injured and have to take two months off and they're back even to where they started with um their endurance. So you're starting them out just very lightly with the help of a personal trainer and then um yeah yeah two to three days on resistance training I think is a good place to start um and it just kind of depends on what access they have but ideally would work with a personal trainer so that they can know what to do instead of just um kind of guessing and not doing it correctly. Are they all willing to do the resistance training? It depends uh kind of depends on the population a little bit um on on who you see there. There's some differences between our clinic locations I think on um the type of patient you see. So like where I work I have a lot of um guys who do maybe a significant amount of daily activity pouring concrete or construction work farmers um and you don't need to add in that additional daily activity. and some of them think they don't need to do any extra exercise on top of that. Um so there's some of that discussion of um determining what needs to be done outside of their daily work. Um and um versus the the guy who's sitting at the desk all day. They they're a little bit more um open to me telling them what they should be doing to optimize their their exercise.