 can you come off of testosterone replacement therapy? If so, what happens? This is an extremely nuanced question, but the answer is, yeah, it's possible that you can come off of testosterone replacement therapy after you start it. Now, this is contingent on a few things. First of all, were you appropriately assessed? And if you were appropriately assessed, what did your FSH and or LH values look like prior to starting testosterone replacement therapy? Because if we have your FSH and LH values, we can identify and then stratify you into whether or not you have primary and or secondary hypogonadism, because that's a big factor in indicating and defining if your balls have the capability of making testosterone again. Another thing that taken into consideration is, how much testosterone were you even making before getting on testosterone replacement? Because let's be real, a lot of guys say that they don't want to get on testosterone because they're afraid it's going to shut down their natural production. Well, guess what? If your natural production is 200, 250, you ain't making anything anyways. So I mean, you really have nothing to shut down. Depending on the underlying etiology, then it's totally possible that you could possibly come off. We've had guys come off for whatever reason, whether it's deployment, personal reasons, what not. We've had guys come off and have some degree of recovery. So here's something to think about. Let's say that you start T or T at 30 and your testosterone is 350. Now you're 40 years old and you're considering coming off for whatever reason. Cool, okay? Now we know there's an age-related decline in your natural testosterone levels. So hypothetically, yours 350 at 30 might now be 250, 300 as your new baseline untreated. So you have to take in consideration, when you come off, if you're making testosterone, your new endogenous level is probably going to be lower just because time has passed and that's how life is. You make less as you get older. Also, you have to take in consideration, how has your health evolved from the time you started to the time you decide to come off? So let's say that same person, they have a 350 at age 30. Let's say now they're 40 and they're on a few new medications, they're on medications to treat lipids. They're on a statin. Let's say they have hypertension, they're on an ACE inhibitor. Let's say they've also gained 30 pounds. Well, we know they've got an age-related decline that can possibly contribute and now they have comorbidities to stack on top of that. So that 350 at 30, they're now 40 year old natural production might be 250 if they're lucky, concerned that again, age-related clients have occurred and they've also accumulated some comorbidities during this timeframe. Again, as you can see, this is an extremely nuanced question. No one can predict if you will produce testosterone again. No one can predict how much you will if you do. But I'm speaking from what I've seen clinically. I've worked with numerous, numerous guys, helped many of guys come off of testosterone again for whatever personal conviction or whatever reason they do. And the vast majority of them do recover their own natural production. And the degree of recovery tends to be within a deviation of their pre-TRT levels, albeit with some age-related client and or health-related changes. So someone says starting TRT means you're stuck on it for life. That's not necessarily true. However, one, you aren't making any in the first place. That's why you got on TRT. And two, who wants to go back to their pre-TRT levels and feeling the way they did? That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of