Can you come off of testosterone replacement therapy? If so, what happens? This is an extremely nuanced question, but the answer is yeah, it's possible that you can come off of testosterone replacement therapy after you start it. Now, this is contingent on a few things. First of all, were you appropriately assessed? And if you were appropriately assessed, what did your FSH and or LH values look like prior to starting testosterone replacement therapy? Because if we have your FSH and LH values, we can identify and thus stratify you into whether or not you have primary and or secondary hypogonatism because that's a big factor in indicating and defining if your balls have the capability of making testosterone. Again, another thing to take into consideration is how much testosterone were you even making before getting on testosterone replacement? Cuz let's be real, a lot of guys say that they don't want to get on testosterone because they're afraid it's going to shut down their natural production. Well, guess what? If your natural production is 200, 250, you ain't making anything anyway. So, I mean, you really have nothing to shut down. Depending on the underlying eeology, then it's totally possible that you could possibly come off. We've had guys come off for whatever reason, whether it's deployment, personal reasons, whatnot. We've had guys come off and have some degree of recovery. So, here's something to think about. Let's say that you start TRT at 30 and your testosterone is 350. Now, you're 40 years old and you're considering coming off for whatever reason. Cool. Okay. Now, we know there's an age related decline in your natural testosterone levels. So, hypothetically, your 350 at 30 might now be 250 300 at your as your new baseline untreated. So, you have to take in consideration when you come off if you're making testosterone, your new industrious level is probably going to be lower just cuz time is passed and that's how life is. You make less as you get older. Also, you have to take in consideration how has your health evolved from the time you started to the time you decide to come off. So, let's say that same person, they have a 350 at age 30. Let's say now they're 40 and they're on a few new medications. They're on medications to treat lipids. They're on a statin. Let's say they're they have hypertension. They're on an ACE inhibitor. Let's say they've also gained 30 pounds. Well, we know they've got an age related client that can possibly contribute. And now they have coorbidities to stack on top of that. So that 350 at 30, they're now 40 year old natural production might be 200 250 if they're lucky considering that again age related declines have occurred and they've also accumulated some coorbidities during this time frame. Again, as you can see, this is an extremely nuanced question. No one can predict if you will produce testosterone and no one can predict how much you will if you do. But I'm speaking from what I've seen clinically. I've worked with numerous numerous guys, helped many of guys come off of testosterone again for whatever personal conviction or whatever reason they do. And the vast majority of them do recover their own natural production. And the degree of recovery tends to be within a deviation of their pre-TRT levels, albeit with some age related decline and/or health related changes. So someone says starting TRT means you're stuck on it for life. That's not necessarily true. However, one, you weren't making any in the first place. That's why you got on TRT. And two, who wants to go back to their pre-TRT levels and feeling the way they did?