What is testosterone replacement therapy? Ask yourself, it's an acronym that indicates testosterone replacement therapy, also called hormone replacement therapy or androgen replacement therapy. It's a medical treatment used to treat low testosterone levels that can occur with age or even following some pathologies. Your body begins to produce less testosterone as we age. This is called hormone senescence. It's a completely natural process that begins to occur in your late twenties and early thirties. It's a gradual decrease that often isn't accompanied by any symptoms, but as you get older, the first problems may appear: decreased sexual desire, fewer spontaneous elections, erectile dysfunction, reduction in the quantity and quality of seminal fluid, loss of focus, a reduction in cognitive abilities, often psychophysical fatigue, and also a loss of bone and muscle mass, osteopenia and sarcopenia, and weight gain, that is, an often unexpected weight gain. The only way to know if you have low testosterone levels is to do a blood test along with other tests. They are explained in all the videos on this channel. There are various ways to replace testosterone and gels, creams, nasal sprays, pharmaceuticals, sublingual injections, but almost all the experts who have presented themselves on this channel and have spoken essentially agree that the best use for hormone replacement therapy for TRT is to use injections or scrotal cream with daily use. These are the two methods that give the best results. TNT is usually for life. You replace testosterone which therefore optimizes your values, but clearly the suspension of treatment will ensure that you will return to the starting conditions in a short time and therefore in that situation called hypogonadism, you can find various videos on this channel that can also answer various questions, for example, what can be the side effects of these therapies, the costs. However, the important thing is to rely on a professional who is able to guide you on your journey in search of your health and quality of life. To help you throughout this journey, a Facebook group has also been created that you can find called TRT which is precisely hormonal optimization and  then find experts who can tell you which are the most suitable structures for your assistance and answer the various questions but now to find out more to enter the world of TNT Click here start the playlist that will teach you all the basics to start your TRT