Do I have to diet and work out on TRT? Because that's um yeah, that's an advice we give uh very often. I mean, yeah, because you you're looking for TRT for lifestyle optimization. That's it. I I don't feel good. I want to feel better. And so, I would say the best way to feel better and it's free is looking after yourself properly and exercising. And I would say anyone, no matter who you are, needs to do that. And most of the patients seem to get that. I mean, in for TRT, they're all men. Most of them want to be fitter and stronger. That pretty much is the driving force for them seeking help. So, kind of I don't find that a difficult discussion to have. There's only a couple of times where patients have put up resistance to it. But I do make clear that I expect you to live a healthier lifestyle than perhaps most people. I do expect you to like stop recreational drugs completely. They definitely contribute to lowering your testosterone. If you drink too much, I I do expect you to stop drinking or be completely in control of that. Um, some people don't think they binge drink. And it doesn't actually take that much alcohol to binge drink. And it's pretty easy to reach, say, 40 units a week without trying that hard, especially if you go out and drink socially. It can be done. So, I am quite clear with those patient. I expect you to stop doing that. I expect you to take steps towards stop smoking and vaping and all of this. Um, and just live a textbook healthy lifestyle. And that's what I think will get the most from it because if if I've got your numbers right and you're still not feeling good, I'm I'm I'm pretty much out of ideas. There's there are other things going on that you can sort out yourself, but that's kind of it. TRT is not this like silver bullet that will fix everything. It will just fix your low testosterone and quite a lot of it is up to you. I think so TRT or HRT is not just the cherry on top. uh you do expect the patient to do a lot of work themselves. Yeah, absolutely. I'm pretty clear about that. I'm quite lucky in that most of my patients are pretty keen to do that. Most doctors when they see patients that that perhaps are overweight, they they actually don't want to change that or they're insistent that they exercise when when really they're probably not. Um they don't want to change their diet. Whereas I think most of the TRT community are actually very keen on improving their lifestyle. So is that that makes my job pretty easy that but I think if we're talking to a wider audience which obviously this is being broadcasted to I would say absolutely and and if you're not optimizing that part before you're seeking TRT absolutely do it. Stop drinking completely. TRT is not something you should be seeking. It's something to optimize your health if you need it. Stop drinking. Stop smoking. Improve your diet. Um get a good workout regime going. Um it doesn't even need to be exact. just get some sort of weightlifting going. It doesn't need to be advanced. You're not competing. And get some sort of cardio in there as well. And I would I would actually expect most young men to try and get their lifestyle better to exercise almost every day. I don't think five times a week's a lot to ask for a young man to train. It should really be the baseline that you should be doing something. Um so most of my patients that have come to me have already done all of this. they um and and to be honest, if you haven't, I would really encourage you to not spend more money and actually try this yourself and come back to me. And I've said that to a lot of patients as well. So yeah, it it seems a bit I don't like to be inflexible as a doctor. I like to try and listen to people, but for that one that that really is a non-negotiable for me. I think you really do need to try. Yeah, you gave some specifics about um cardiovascular and resistance training. Um but what about diet? What do you mean if you say to a patient you have to watch your diet? What do you recommend? Um I tend not to go into too much in specifics about I'm not an expert basically. So someone who does one sport will go well that diet wouldn't work for me. So if you're an ultramarathon runner, you would eat you eat masses of food and you do things differently. If you want to be a powerlifter, then you need to adjust your diet accordingly as well. Personally, I'm a fan of um sort of low carbs if you can, high protein, high good fats. And I do sometimes tell patients, do your own research, but high protein doesn't mean you can get protein from literally any source and have fun with it. It doesn't mean eat an entire plate of sausages. That's completely different protein source to say lean chicken. They're not the same. So, um you do need to look into what these healthy fats are. You need to look in a bit into your diet and take your own interest because I don't have the educational background to talk about every sport and the nutrition. It's very specialist and we'd be here all day if I was going to do that. It's a completely separate topic. So, um but as a as a general thing, I'd say no processed foods. If it's made in a factory, don't touch it. Um, go look get your get your meat from a butcher if you can, that sort of thing. So, you can see what it is. It's no one's done anything artificial to it. Um, good amounts of fruit and veg. I know there are some people out there with carnivore diets who saying fruit and veg is the enemy and things like that. Personally, I don't I think it's pretty good source of nutrition, I think. But like, um, so that sort of stuff, I mean, if you eat fruit, veg, nuts, uh, lean meats, I don't think you can go too far wrong, to be honest. Hey everybody.