All right, welcome to the Tier One podcast. And today I'm very pleased to announce that I've got David Holt, owner of Holt Law Firm. And David, I'd like you to tell us a little bit about yourself. Uh today's topic is of course going to be the world of peptides. And I'm hoping that you can shed some light on the information or therefore misinformation regarding peptides. So once again, a pleasure to have you, David. &gt;&gt; Hey, thanks for having me. Really excited to be here. Pick the new year off, right? Yeah, I'm David Holt. Go by DJ, transactional healthcare business attorney. Work a lot and only with healthcare providers. And so have gotten a lot of questions over the last year in 2025 about peptides, what's legal, what's not legal, what if I am doing it anyway type questions. And so I'm excited to explore more as to what the law actually says with you. &gt;&gt; Well, let's uh get right into it. as I you know I research I'm on the health and wellness practice so I do a lot of research a lot of literature reviews and of course every day I get a question on peptides multiple questions on peptides from patients and I used to take the time to write a extensive you know letter back to them but now I just typically refer your website to them and specifically what you've written on your website because the information I found there was extremely valuable and I want everyone to understand that this is not a podcast about peptides as far as good or bad. This is not what it's about. It's simply about trying to shed light on the truth about the prescribing of peptides by providers and the risks that they may be taking in doing so. And so, David, if you can uh kind of lead us into this u you know on your website and I'm going to this will be attached to our to our podcast of course, but the unregulated world of peptides, what you need to know before you inject. Can you kind of lead us through? I'll just start as a highlevel overview assuming we know you know very little about peptides and so um the the United States does not make it easy uh in my opinion as an attorney you know trying to explain this day in and day out as to what we can and can't do. So I will I will say that right out of the gate. What I tried to do here, and I'm sure we could share it in the show notes, is state specifically what the FDA or the federal government has said we can and cannot do. You know, right on the website, straight bulletin guidance from the FDA. And the FDA in the United States has full authority to regulate and say what can and cannot be used in humans. Period. Um, some people may not like that. Some people may um not be thrilled about that, but those are the rules. Um high level uh effectively a peptide such as you know BPC-157 or you know a whole other list of peptides, it needs to be on what's called a a final bulk list or um it has to be an FDA approved drug. And a lot of these are not yet all the way FDA approved, which therefore means it's then illegal to compound inside of the United States. So I'll say that again. If the FDA hasn't either put it on one of its list or giving it given it a blessing, I'll just paraphrase, then it is illegal to compound in the United States. So then everyone, you know, usually says, "Well, then how are all these other providers doing it?" Or, "How are all these peptides making their way into gyms and, you know, shipping to my front door and and things like that?" To which, you know, I I say, "Well, I don't have all of the facts, but I could make some educated guesses on how that might be happening." I will say this. Um, first off, as a licensed attorney, I take my marching orders from federal law, state law, and that's it. You know, I I can talk about what it says if there are exceptions, but if the exceptions don't exist, that's where my advice and and the party would be over. But I will say this, the FDA has their hands full with a lot of stuff right now as we move into 2026 enforcement of uh pharmacies as well as the providers themselves. I just don't think that there is currently the enforcement priority and power for them to be able to do so. But that does not make it legal. So, an analogy I would give is uh I was, you know, driving on the highway today. Everyone on that highway was going, you know, probably 10 to 15 over. I'm not going to say whether I was going 10 to 15 over, but you know, there just aren't a lot of cops on the highway. And so, not a lot of people get pulled over. that doesn't make it legal, but uh I I would use that analogy to a small degree as to what I'm seeing happening in the current market just with how many people are landing on, you know, my the articles that I put out plus the questions that I'm getting. Uh so I'll I'll pause there. I know that's a long- winded answer, but um on the blog, what I try to go through, and it's very confusing. I I did not set this system up. I just comment on it. There are a few different things that that happen and I'll try and paraphrase them without getting too technical. And so there's what's there's there what are called compounded drugs which are technically we'll just say unapproved new drugs but they got a little legal pass because they met certain requirements by the FDA. So that's a mouthful right there, right? Why can't we just have yes or no? Well, you know, it's it's on its way to a yes and a potential approval. But in the meantime, the FDA is giving it a classification. So the first type of compounding or traditional compounding would be uh 503A. And so this is this regulates pharmacies that compound medications for individual identified uh patients and um there's a valid prescription, right? Okay, good. That that kind of makes sense. And thosearmacies are primarily going to be overseen by the local pharmacy boards. Okay, that I can kind of follow with that. Then we got these uh 503b, so not A but E. And those would be outsourcing facilities. Effectively what they do is they allow a large bulk batch of you know patient specific prescriptions to be manufactured and then sell for office use at the local you know clinic hospital. Um they have to follow I think you mentioned um CGMP guidelines or um the good manufacturing practices. That's a lot stricter than 503A. So in order to ship a bulk peptide to a provider, you got to meet this very specific uh list of requirements. Um there are also other peptides like BPC57 where the FDA has got gone even further and said there is no specific human use that's approved at this time. That that may change in the future. Therefore, not allowed for human use. And so providers will say, well, okay, uh there's clinical and then there's uh research. So research is a known exception to that rule. Well, you know, research has a very specific framework for how it's done in the United States. And just saying that something is for research, but then handing it over to a patient for you as a doctor hypothetically would not only be putting your professional license at jeopardy, but you're also exposing yourself. Um, and I say this with respect to plaintiffs attorneys out there, you know, the personal injury attorneys. They have now basically unlimited access to you because you technically violated federal law. So, you violated law. Any damages? We have unlimited reign over you. So, high level, that's what's going on. Um, I know that was a mouthful, so I'll pause there. &gt;&gt; It's excellent information. And let let's go with that a little bit. Um, so one thing that some of the prescribers may not understand or may not realize is their malpractice policies, malpractice insurance. Now, uh, Rick Collins, good friend of mine. He's a very well-known attorney in the United States that deals with, um, uh, performance-enhancement, uh, issues, uh, people that get arrested or get in trouble for performance-enhancement drugs. But, uh, Rick is very knowledgeable in in that in that area. But I specifically asked Rick about peptides and, uh, Rick looked right at me. He's a, you know, a defense attorney, and he said, "Keith, whatever you do, never prescribe peptides." I'm like, "I don't plan on it, Rick, but why?" He goes because if a if a patient has a problem with it, if they have an issue, they blame it on the peptide. It's indefensible. I cannot defend you. No one can. That struck home. And and once again, this is not a uh this is not a tyrate against BPC-157. It's about the legalities of prescribing as provider. We're trying to pro protect the providers with this podcast today. So, I did contact as many malpractice uh insurers as I could before our podcast today. Not a single malpractice provider covers non-FDA approved drugs or research chemicals or peptides like we're talking about that are on the do not compound list. Not one. So, anybody that literally is accused of uh given a peptide that may have caused a problem to a patient, they will have no defense and their practice policy will not cover them. And those and as you know, defending yourself can run into the tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars at times. All right. So that's that's the that's the one issue that that's very concerning is is just that alone. And so a lot of our listeners, I see this on uh the social media as well. They'll say, "Well, it's just the FDA. They're just, you know, they just don't want you to have things that work." Well, uh you know, whether I agree or disagree with that statement, you know, I'm not a big fan of FDA, but nonetheless, the FDA is trying to look after the uh the the health of the individuals. And and what I mean by that is that look, in order for us to prescribe a drug, an FDA approved drug, we have to have USPI information, which is prescribing information, the package insert that we get as physicians, and those are based off of randomized control trials in humans. So they develop so we develop this prescribing information for these peptides and non-FDA approved and we don't have any of that information. And what is literally involved with an FDA approved drug? This is what is required in order for us to be able to prescribe it legally. You have to have certain information and this is the information. You have to have a boxed warning. You have to have a section of indications and usage, dosage and administration, dosage forms and strengths, contraindications, warnings and precautions, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific population such as pregnancy, lactation, uh females and male reproductive potential, pediatric use, geriatric use, drug abuse and dependence, overdoses, description, clinical pharmarmacology, mechanism of action, pharmacodnamics, phicokinetics, pharmaccogenomics, imogenicity, nonclinical toxicology and then clinical studies. Those are all part of the package inserts we have for the drugs that we prescribe every day, even when we use them off label. We have none of that information for BPC1257 or CJC-1295, you name it. None of those that are on the do not compound list. And that's why the FDA has not approved it for for human uh consumption. Do you have anything to add to that, David? &gt;&gt; Yeah, 100% on the malpractice. I'll start there. So, that's the biggest one. you any event and uh if you've ever been through a patient complaint or a medical malpractice allegation, a lot of that um can become a he said, she said, you know, medical record uh is the best we can do. But again, uh your malpractice carrier would not cover it because you are not following the law. So you have prescribed or you've broken the law in your administration of or your practice of medicine. Therefore, that's an excluded event. Just like if I committed, you know, legal malpractice, but I knew that I was doing something wrong, right? My my malpractice carrier would say, well, that's excluded, right? You uh it's the same reason why some uh well, why most policies don't cover intentional tors. Like, I can't just go around and punch people and then expect my insurance company to pay the bill. like there are things that are excluded. This would be one of them. So, you'd have to pay out of pocket. I would agree that $100,000 would be a good day for some of those personal injury attorneys, especially medical malpractice or sorry, um medical malpractice plaintiffs attorneys. And the reason that plaintiff's attorneys like this is that unlike, you know, maybe a slip and fall case where you actually have to kind of prove, you know, well, was that a reasonable standard of care? Right here, they just say unapproved peptide, therefore law broken, therefore all damages that result, right? So, we're really only arguing about damages, which is never where you want to be as a provider. On top of that, now we're probably getting the attention of the local medical board. Right now, you know, inadvertently us having to deal with that patient complaint. I wouldn't be surprised if they also put, you know, a little complaint in with the medical board. You know, I won't comment on whether that's a good strategy from the plaintiff's perspective. I'm on the provider side, but now not only are you paying out damages and dealing with this patient and their attorney that's coming at you, but now you're also fending off a a complaint from the medical board for which I don't think you're going to have a great defense. I'll even go one step further. Um, and I wanted to make sure I got this right, but um, in Ohio this year, they actually um, the board of pharmacy um, suspended a license of a effectively a medical spa. And they did this by just going in looking at some of the labeling and then saying, "Hey, this is according to our rules ad." And effectively, they're just kind of drawing upon FDA rules. Now simply saying the FDA is overburdened and you know the state isn't going to do anything. Medical boards, boards ofarmacies are starting to get involved. Also in New York and New Jersey specifically for you know well peptides but set in a different way. It's being regulated for minors. So we're already starting to see a wave of state regulation come in. I actually think to go you know another step further on on what you were saying. your biggest risk and some of the videos we were watching earlier, you know, I don't have all the facts. I can't comment on their situations, but I think actually your biggest risk now is the FTC or the Federal Trade Commission. So, we have the FDA. Okay, that's one federal agency. Now, we have the FTC. The FTC is generally in charge of regulating how advertising and how things are represented to consumers. a consumer in this situation being a patient. So if I have a website or a real on a social media platform saying that something is pharma grade or or misleading as to whether it's legal to to use or not, the FD the FDC has public record of you saying something and the FDC under federal rules does not mess around in terms of cease and desist as well as fines. And they're also allowed in some situations not just to go after you civil civil, right? So, okay, a fine season to say stop doing that. You know, money is one thing, but criminal charges as well, which is not never a good place to be. &gt;&gt; Well, do you mind if we, since you referred to the videos, there are YouTube shorts that anybody can go look at. There are hundreds of them probably, but do you mind if we play those videos? So, &gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah, &gt;&gt; I'll watch them. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for sterility and potency. More importantly, I discuss the treatment plan, including proper dosing based on the medical literature, and I pair the right peptide for your specific goal. Peptides are powerful, but they're only as effective as the precision behind how they're used. So whether your goal is to heal, lose weight, grow muscle, or just live longer, remember the peptide isn't the magic. The science, safety, and supervision behind the peptide is. Here's the part most people fail to understand. And this part's the critical part. When I started prescribing peptides about say 15 years ago or so, they were thought of as something kind of fringe that only compounding made and they had to be administered via subcutaneous injection. And then about 10 years ago, the FDA began very strict oversight ofarmacies that compounded peptides and medications. And that's why a lot of peptides now, you're going to see online on some pop-up website that says for research use only or not for human consumption. And what that really means is they're not regulated. There's no FDA to enforce testing for purity or sterility. So when someone orders peptides off a random website, they're taking on major risks. Is this peptide even real? Is it 5 milligrams? or maybe it's only 3 milligrams. Or worse, what if the peptide's not sterile and you inject it and now you're injecting bacteria into your system? Yes, these are injectable medications that go directly into your body. So, sterility and quality control are non-negotiable. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for stability and potency. &gt;&gt; Dr. Dr. Hod, your board certified anti-aging and regenerative medicine MD here to talk to you guys about something very important, which is the difference between pharmaceutical grade or pharma grade peptides and research grade peptides. So pharmagra peptides are always going to be from a licensed pharmacy. Research peptides are going to be from a research facility. Pharmagra peptides are regulated by the FDA, the pharmacy board they are licensed under as well as the DEA, whereas research peptides are unregulated because they are not meant for human use. They're meant for research purposes only. pharma grade peptides have to be prescribed by a licensed physician in the state that you are getting them prescribed into. Research peptides can be given out by anybody including naturopaths, chiropractors, therapists, health coaches, fitness trainers, influencers, the guy at the gym, or even you can get them yourself through the gray market online by yourself. Pharmarmacray peptides require strict lab testing which is regulated under cgmp and USP sterile pharmacy guideline rules meaning that they have to be thoroughly tested for purity as well as for bacterial endotoxin to make sure they're safe that you don't develop any serious life-threatening reactions just like every other pharmaceutical that we have. There's strict rules that regulate and govern pharmagra peptides. Research grade peptides do not have these rules. There are some research peptide companies that are doing cgmp testing. I would recommend those over the ones that aren't. But just keep in mind this still is not a requirement because they're research grade or they're meant for research purposes only. Pharmagra peptides because there is a licensed physician obtaining the medication from a licensed pharmacy and a physician patient relationship. There has to be an informed consent to take place which means the physician has to talk to the patient about safety risks and benefits. Actually discuss and create an informed consent to see if the patient is not at increased risk and if the patient is then this needs to be discussed with the patient. With research grade peptides, people are able to get them without the patient physician risk and benefit stratification and assessment. So, pharma grade peptides come to you from the pharmacy on ice generally in a vial that's reconstituted ready to inject and doesn't need to be mixed. Research peptides come to you generally in a liophalized powder which either you have to mix yourself or the person giving them to you has to mix them for you or they might give them to you in pre-filled syringes. Generally, these would come as a powder that needs to be mixed. So, make sure you ask these questions when somebody's giving you peptides. Are these research grade? Are they pharmaceutical grade? For your own long-term health and your own knowledge, it's important to know if it is research grade. Look for that third-party testing. See if it's from a CGMP certified facility. Look at the third party testing. See if it's pure and also see if other people have used that same company, have a good experience with it. If you want to know more about our pharmaceutical grade offerings for peptides, all of them are pharmaceutical grade and all of them are meeting all the criteria that I mentioned on this side of the table. But it's important to know what you're taking so you can make the right appropriate actionable changes in your health and the safe changes that you need to make to optimize your health the most. &gt;&gt; I don't know the exact legal setup and all the facts with these uh individuals but there is only one set of rules. Uh they are the federal rules that are administered by the FDA. Right? So suggesting that something is, you know, pharmaceutical grade versus um intended for research only, it it misses how things are legally classified and I think is slightly misleading. The you're either approved or you're not. Okay, that's step one for the FDA. And then in unapproved, you basically get placed into various different uh well, we're on our way to approval. It's okay, you know, here's the public bulletin or holy cow, stay away from this one, like BPC-157. So, uh, there is I mean there's no secret that there is a lot of money and there are a lot of consumers for peptides period. I will just say that and acknowledge that because I think that's why there's a lot of pressure here. And I don't think uh consumers or doctors are thrilled that the FDA is saying what it's saying. I have, you know, no real input on that. But that doesn't mean that you can supersede the FDA or argue with science, uh, you know, and and say, well, you know, best interests of the patient type arguments. And I also don't like the fact that there aren't any qualifiers on these videos. So, I would have liked to have seen more of a reference to, well, if you want to know more, please visit the FDA uh website and then boom, boom, here is the current list because I think that would give a lot more context. Um, how they actually got a hold of these peptide compounded peptides. I'm I'm I'm just going to assume we're referencing BPC57, but that may not be the case. Uh, that's my main question back to the video uh producers. So, uh, gray area, yellow area, I have a lot of questions. Period. &gt;&gt; No respectable compounding pharmacy is is compounding peptides. None. And that because I know that it's illegal to do so. Uh, so the ones the ones that these doctors are promoting are illegally obtained. It's it's not even a gray area. We both, you know, know that. So, a couple of things to piggyback on what you've said. So, I do think uh I hope I'm going to be wrong on this, but I do think you're going to see uh a wave of lawsuits and it's going to be a new avenue for pliff attorneys because once again, this been going on for a year or two or more now. And any problems that a person may have that's going to blame it on that peptide, no defense for that prescriber. None at all. And that's a dangerous spot to be in. And also, you mentioned the medical board. So, before our podcast today, I'm licensed in several states. So I did contact some representatives of several medical boards and asked them specifically about not FDA approved peptides for instance. Once again not standard of care. You're risking your medical license suspension or revoke or being revoked by doing so. I don't know why anybody works so hard to you know to get their medical license and degree and then willing to take such a risk to lose it. It just makes no sense to me. Um but nonetheless it is happening and I can't say this enough. This is not anti-eptides. Uh, you know, GLP ones are wonderful. There's some wonderful peptides out there. FDA approved ones that are miracle drugs, but we're talking specifically about the non-FDA approved ones uh that the FDA has put on the do not compound list. So, let me read from your from your website real quick uh just so they can get the you know that the straightforward response. So, you you in bold print you say, "Can physicians prescribe non-FDA approved drugs?" And the answer is the short answer is no. Physicians may legally prescribe FDA approved drugs for either their approved uses or for other off label uses supported by medical judgment. But if a drug has never received FDA approval for any indication, it cannot be prescribed, dispensed, or marketed for patient care. Doing so is considered the use of an unapproved new drug which is prohibited under federal law and it can expose providers to FDA enforcement, state medical board discipline, and liability risk for providers. The critical takeaway is that administering or prescribing a substance classified as an unapproved new drug is a violation of federal law. This category includes many popular peptides and biologics marketed as research chemicals which lack FDA approval for any therapeutic use. Engaging in such activity can be deemed unprofessional conduct by state medical boards and may attract federal scrutiny. I don't think you could have said it any more clearly in your in your in your website. I don't know what more we can really say on the subject. &gt;&gt; Uh it took me a while to write. it succinctly. So, thank you. I appreciate it. It's not easy to &gt;&gt; to write it. It seems like it. It's uh I'll go one step further too to your previous um because I see a lot of the loopholes that people believe are exceptions is just treating yourself as a health coach. So, I'm not using my medical license. I'm actually now, you know, magically relabeled myself quickly as a a coach. Um, I will say to this, uh, I will say this, um, it would be like, uh, somebody saying, "Oh, I'm not an attorney now. I'm just a lay person, but I'm still going to give legal advice, right?" That the FDA looks down to the intended use and what is actually being done. They're not dumb. And on top of that, unlicensed practice of medicine, right, or unlicensed practice of X is usually uh also again a criminal offense as opposed to a civil offense, which is a bigger is a big deal. Damages, money is one thing. Jail &gt;&gt; a very different thing or the threat of jail. And so, um, magically saying that you're a health coach or well, actually, I'm not prescribing, I'm just recommending or educating you need to be very careful in your belief system that that is a legal loophole and now you're out of the reign of the FDA now that you're not prescribing. So, &gt;&gt; I just want to hammer that home, too. I'm so glad you brought that up because what we're seeing in this space especially are a lot of non-medical trained individuals that want to use the word as coaching and you hire them for coaching but what they're actually doing is an interpreting your labs recommending dosage of different medic uh different hormones for instance or even other medications and they are actually practicing medicine without a license and uh no matter how many disclaimers they have no matter how many you know consent forms you may sign they're not worth the paper they're written on. Once you take money, interpret labs, give medical advice, especially with dosage or you know adding or subtracting certain drugs, you are practicing medicine and it is a criminal offense. It's it's a felony in most states if not all. And so you're seeing that a lot uh presently in our space as well. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh not a client of mine and uh not you know uh but I can comment in general terms. Uh there was a a matter where uh basically a doctor um was using the health coach defense, we'll call it, and uh the medical board when they received a complaint and that lawyer uh made the argument, well actually this you you don't have jurisdiction because he is not using his medical license. And the medical board effectively their response was, you're right. This is unlicensed practice of medicine. we're going to refer it to the attorney general's office for criminal prosecution. So, it was really a slap in the face when they tried to use a a loophole. But just to, you know, put that point home. Um, yeah. So, that's &gt;&gt; So, so if you could look in the eye any of my colleagues or, you know, other providers that are thinking about tomorrow starting to prescribe these non-FDA approved peptides, what would be the take-home message that you would tell them? Yeah, don't do it unless you're you're willing to assume a lot of risk. Put your license on the line and also put yourself and your practice and your business on the line. Um, hold tight. I would say if you if this really is where you want to make your stand, then uh you know, lobby the FDA, go dig into the science and you know, go talk to representatives, but don't put your as it currently stands as of the recording of this episode. Uh more guidance is needed unless you want to put your license on the line. &gt;&gt; That's what I tell my colleagues and patients as well every day. I say, "Look, I I can't tell you which of these non-FDA approved peptides work or don't work. I'm not saying they work or they don't work. I don't have the medical studies in humans to tell you if they work or don't work and what population they would work in versus one that they wouldn't. So, we just don't have the information. So, it's not worth the medical license to do so. There are plenty other ways that we can, you know, improve people's health without resorting to to presently what are known as research chemicals. So, what patients do on their own, that's that's on them. But what these doctors are getting and what the patients are getting, there's really not any difference. you know, they can they can claim, well, I've got it from a special pharmacy and it's much better than what you're g. No, they're not. No, they're not. They're not. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, uh &gt;&gt; and &gt;&gt; so, but I really appreciate you sharing your knowledge with us today and I know you're going to be doing some lectures uh coming up for for Whirlink Medical and that's going to be wonderful. I think that uh that we as physicians sometimes we we get busy in our practice. we don't always, you know, understand the uh the consequences of some of our actions and uh especially when it comes to to doing along something like these peptides because if everybody's doing it, it must be okay. That that's kind of the the attitude they take and they certainly should be a little bit more cautious when it comes to these drugs. &gt;&gt; I would agree. I I don't enjoy being the party pooper. I usually like to have the, you know, the workaround, the exception, the, you know, something that I can give a lot of the prospective clients in this category. But a lot of what that advice has centered around is okay, what you're doing is technically illegal. How severe are the consequences and what does enforcement look like? Which effectively you're going against legal advice. We're approaching, you know, what I might consider a criminal defense attorney needed, but um that's the value that I'm offering now. And uh a lot of people aren't thrilled with what I say, but uh largely I'm just regurgitating what federal law says. I'm breaking it down. Read the blogs. Uh I always welcome feedback if uh I I'll I'll try and circle around the comments for this episode, too. But uh I take a very conservative reading of the rules. I will also say uh just this last week um I had a well more of a we'll just say prospective client um get a large amount of um unapproved peptides effectively seized at customs. So they're sitting on a ship right now. They'll probably be destroyed and we'll see I mean what what they need to do. it wouldn't be something that I would work with, but the FDA is starting to seize unapproved peptides that are coming in through, you know, China, Korea, wherever at the border, and that is starting to become a um a bigger enforcement priority. That again is not a fun place to be because not only do you lose all the money that you use to try and work around the US uh pharmacies that are not allowed to do that, now you could potentially face federal prosecution. So, uh, just another thing that I remembered from last week. &gt;&gt; Well, let let me reiterate this is not anything anti-eptide. Those peptides have got to be approved are miracle and wonderful drugs. I am propeptid. Uh, what I'm trying to do is help protect my colleagues from themselves sometimes. And, uh, you know, once again, if a person has a problem with it, like you say, it could be criminal, civil, and deal with your medical boards. So, who wants to who wants to have to deal with that? Well, David, I cannot thank you enough for coming on and uh providing us with this valuable information that you've given us today. Uh I just I hope it helps so many providers or at least makes them think twice before they do anything to potentially harm not only their reputation but once again face any criminal uh civil or even even board uh actions. So if people want to learn more uh like I said, I refer your website to every one of my patients that ask about peptides. Now I say this is this is all correct information that that that Mr. Mr. Holt has on his website. Please go read it and you understand why I can't write you a prescription for PPC127 or CJC-1295. So this is why I can't do it. And they all seem to be very understanding. I didn't know that, doc. Nobody told me. Everybody's doing it. I see all over the YouTube and Tik Tok and Instagram. And I said, I know, but I I know you do. But uh but nonetheless, David, if people want to get in touch with you or if they want to learn more, how can we go about doing that? &gt;&gt; It' probably be my website. So that's the one with the blog you referenced. It's just a djholtlaw.com and uh in the search function or if you say DJ Holtaw peptide it'll pro the the blogs that you want will probably be the top two search results. Uh I will note we work with the healthcare providers uh not the patients but we we always strive and we're happy to have anyone read our resources and we do a really good job of keeping those uh updated as guidance comes out. And I'll just say from a personal perspective, not an attorney perspective, I am very optimistic for what we could do with peptides in the health and wellness space being a a big wellness guy myself and benefiting quite a bit from supplements and uh you know working on my own health individually. So I I am a big fan. I I just from a legal perspective that's my my allegiances to my license which therefore is federal and state law. So &gt;&gt; happy to have people visit the blog. &gt;&gt; Well, I couldn't agree with you more and once again my perspective is that I want doctors to be able to prescribe it in the future whenever it's uh legal and we have all the studies and and they're not putting their license at risk. So, thank you once again for coming on. I think it's going to be valuable information. and uh it's been valuable information for me and I'm sure it's going to be for many others. So, thank you once again. &gt;&gt; Thank you. Appreciate it.