 B12 supplements. I'm not a huge supplement guy. The first thing I recommend is a complex B vitamin. I don't have any specific brand that I promote, but there's some evidence that androgens can increase your homocysteine levels, so B12 can help with that. And it's a super safe and super cheap supplement, so for me, that's one I recommend. Creatine, monohydrate, it's effective, maybe even latest evidence that might even improve your cognitive function if you use higher than 5 grams a day, I think at 10, maybe even higher than that. That's one of those things, is it going to change your life if you start taking creatine? No, but beneficial, effective, I think. Another supplement that I recommend to some patients, particularly because I have a lot of obese guys, is a supplement called HMB hydroxy beta methylbutyrate. And it's a supplement that reduces muscle protein breakdown while they're in a calorie deficit, which they usually are. So sometimes I'll recommend that. Macarote extract I'll recommend because it has proven effects on libido and sex drive. Sometimes L-carnitine, I will prescribe actually to patients, specifically with metabolic syndrome. And why? Because there's evidence that L-carnitine can help with the metabolic, what's called metabolic inflexibility. So when you have the obesity that I'm talking about, you usually have a dysfunction in your liver and fat cells. They develop metabolic inflexibility, which means they can't efficiently switch from burning sugar to burning fatty acids. It also happens in your testes, by the way, which is a huge problem because if you can't burn fatty acids, you can't make testosterone. So the L-carnitine actually helps in the process of alleviating the congestion in mitochondria. That's a very lay person's way of saying it. And the patients that benefit the most, I think, are the ones with very high C-reactive protein levels. So if you search L-carnitine, C-reactive protein metabolic syndrome, there's a few studies showing L-carnitine can help with that. But as far as supplements go, that's pretty much it. And everything's cheap, and I don't sell anything, any of those things directly. So beyond that, not many supplements that I would recommend. You asked me about peptides. So there are some patients that are interested in peptides, and I do sometimes use Tessa-Morlin. It's been a while since I've used it. But Tessa-Morlin does reduce your visceral fat, and probably faster than testosterone does. There's some questions about how durable the effect of Tessa-Morlin is. For example, if you go off of it, do you regain what you lost? Some studies seem to suggest that. But yeah, that's as far as ancillaries. And then obviously I use a lot of somaglutide, terzapatide. I use that like crazy. But that's not a supplement. That would just be another drug. Cialis, we use like... Cialis is virtually a supplement now. I live a lot of times in Latin America, and you can just go buy Cialis over the county. So if you consider Cialis a supplement, low dose Cialis is also very common. So that's a five milligram per dollar fill daily. Yep. Very safe. Beneficial, not only just for your erectile... Well, let's start with a rectile function. It's very good because even if you have moderate, mild erectile dysfunction, it's very important not to ignore that because the penile tissue, again, to put things in lay terms, I'm going to say it's a muscle, not a muscle, but if you just ignore it, it tends to get worse. So if you don't have strong erections regularly and you go that way for a long time, you can actually worsen the dysfunction. So I think it's important to treat early. And the other thing is Cialis has other benefits. There's ergogenic benefits, meaning it can increase hyperemia to your skeletal muscle while you're working out. So that may have anabolic benefits. It has mitochondrial effects. So there's some evidence that it can... That it has certain anti-aging properties, things like that. So, and it's very safe. Very few people have side effects from low dose Cialis. And I mean, I don't put everybody on it, you know, but if they even say they have a minor degree of EDM, it's pretty slam dunk, especially now that it's so cheap too. And then HCG, we use for fertility presby... We didn't talk about that, but that's another thing someone asked about it. We use a lot of HCG because that helps preserve your fertility in most cases. I mean, that's not 100% guaranteed, but the vast majority of men who start injectable testosterone, who also take 500 IUs of HCG the other day, will maintain a fertility level of sperm counts, maybe even some will use 250 every other day at the risk of increasing side effects, of course. I guess most men over 40, 45, they don't care so much about fertility anymore. They don't care about their fertility, but you know what some of them do care about is their testicular volume. So they don't like the fact that they get atrophy on the testosterone or they're put in late terms, their balls shrink. So for those guys, yeah, I'll still give them HCG, like if it's really important to them. But most people don't care. You know, we all care about different things, you know, I always mess with my guy. I mean, are they really that smaller than they used to be? But I, you know, I give my guys a hard time. Yeah, I don't care about that. I then don't care about my hair that I lost away before TRT. So yeah, yeah, I mean, that's good. I'm fighting a losing battle, unfortunately, but it is what it is. I got a good ball. You're one of the guys that looks you have a good you have a good face for baldness. I think if I was bald, I'd look like a creature from the black loom, but there are guys that can pull it off good. So you're one of them, maybe. That was good. Yeah. Anyway, you get used to it. Yeah.