 subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to I would hope to go by DJ, a transactional healthcare business attorney, work a lot and only with healthcare providers. And so have gotten a lot of questions over the last year in 2025 about peptides. What's legal? What's not legal? What if I am doing it anyway type questions? And so I'm excited to explore more as to what the law actually says with you. Well, let's get right into it. As a research, I'm under health and wellness practice, so I do a lot of research, a lot of literature reviews. And of course, every day I get a question on peptides, multiple questions on peptides from patients. And I used to take the time to write an extensive letter back to them. But now I just typically refer your website to them and specifically what you've written on your website because the information I found there was extremely valuable. And I want everyone to understand that this is not a podcast about peptides as far as good or bad. This is not what it's about. It's simply about trying to shed light on the truth about the prescribing of peptides by providers and the risks that they may be taking in doing so. And so David, if you can kind of lead us into this, you know, on your website and I'm going to, this will be attached to our podcast, of course, but the unregulated world of peptides, what you need to know before you inject. Can you kind of lead us through? I'll just start as a high level overview, assuming we know, you know, very little about peptides. And so the United States does not make it easy, in my opinion, as an attorney, you know, trying to explain this day in and day out as to what we can and can't do. So I will say that right out of the gate. What I tried to do here, and I'm sure we can share it in the show notes, is state specifically what the FDA or the federal government has said we can and cannot do, you know, right on the website, straight bullets in guidance from the FDA. And the FDA in the United States has full authority to regulate and say what can and cannot be used in humans, period. Some people may not like that. Some people may not be thrilled about that, but those are the rules. High level, effectively, a peptide, such as, you know, BPC-157 or, you know, a whole other list of peptides, it needs to be on what's called a final bulk list, or it has to be an FDA approved drug. And a lot of these are not yet all the way FDA approved, which therefore means it's then illegal to compound inside of the United States. So I'll say that again. If the FDA hasn't either put it on one of its lists or given it a blessing, I'll just paraphrase, then it is illegal to compound in the United States. So then everyone, you know, usually says, well, then how are all these other providers doing it, or how are all these peptides making their way into gyms and, you know, shipping to my front door and things like that, to which, you know, I say, well, I don't have all of the facts, but I could make some educated guesses on how that might be happening. I will say this. First off, as a licensed attorney, I take my marching orders from federal law, state law, and that's it. You know, I can talk about what it says if there are exceptions, but if the exceptions don't exist, that's where my advice and the party would be over. But I will say this, the FDA has their hands full with a lot of stuff right now as we move into 2026. Enforcement of pharmacies as well as the providers themselves, I just don't think that there is currently the enforcement priority and power for them to be able to do so, but that does not make it legal. So an analogy I would give is I was, you know, driving on the highway today. Going on that highway was going, you know, probably 10 to 15 over. I'm not going to say whether I was going 10 to 15 over, but, you know, there just aren't a lot of cops on the highway. And so not a lot of people get pulled over. That doesn't make it legal. But I would use that analogy to a small degree as to what I'm seeing happening in the current market, just with how many people are landing on, you know, my, the articles that I put out, plus the questions that I'm getting. So I'll pause there. I know that's a long-winded answer. But on the blog, what I try to go through, and it's very confusing. I did not set the system up. I just comment on it. There are a few different things that, that happen, and I'll try and paraphrase them without getting too technical. And so there's what's, there's their, what are called compounded drugs, which are technically, we'll just say unapproved new drugs, but they got a little legal pass because they met certain requirements by the FDA. So that's a mouthful right there, right? Why can't we just have yes or no? Well, you know, it's, it's on its way to a yes and a potential approval. But in the meantime, the FDA is giving it a classification. So the first type of compounding or traditional compounding would be 503A. And so this is, this regulates pharmacies, the compound medications for individual identified patients. And there's a valid prescription, right? Okay, good. That, that kind of makes sense. And those pharmacies are primarily going to be overseen by the local pharmacy boards. Okay. I can kind of follow with that. Then we got these 503B. So not A, but B. And those would be outsourcing facilities. Effectively, what they do is they allow a large bulk batch of, you know, patient specific prescriptions to be manufactured and then sell for office use at the local, you know, clinic hospital. They have to follow, I think you mentioned, see GMP guidelines or the good manufacturing practices. That's a lot stricter than 503A. So in order to ship a bulk peptide to a provider, you got to meet this very specific list of requirements. There are also other peptides like BPC-157 where the FDA has gone even further and said there is no specific human use that's approved at this time. That may change in the future. Therefore, not allowed for human use. And so providers will say, well, okay, there's clinical and then there's research. So research is a known exception to that rule. Well, you know, research has a very specific framework for how it's done in the United States and just saying that something is for research, but then handing it over to a patient for you as a doctor, hypothetically, would not only be putting your professional license at jeopardy, but you're also exposing yourself. And I say this with respect to plaintiffs' attorneys out there, you know, the personal injury attorneys. They have now basically unlimited access to you because you technically violated federal law. So you violated law, any damages, we have unlimited reign over you. So high level, that's what's going on. I know that was a mouthful, so I'll pause there. It's excellent information. Let's go with that a little bit. So one thing that some of the prescribers may not understand and may not realize is their malpractice policies, malpractice insurance. Now Rick Collins, good friend of mine, he's a very well-known attorney in the United States that deals with performance enhancement issues, people that get arrested or get in trouble for performance enhancement drugs. But Rick is very knowledgeable in that area. But I specifically asked Rick about peptides and Rick looked right at me, he's a defense attorney and he said, Keith, whatever you do, never prescribe peptides. I'm like, I don't plan on a rig, but why? And he goes, because if a patient has a problem with it, if they have an issue, they blame it on the peptide, it's indefensible. I cannot defend you. No one can. That struck home. And once again, this is not a tie-rit against BPC-157. It's about the legalities of prescribing as a provider. They're trying to protect the providers with this podcast today. So I did contact as many malpractice insurers as I could before our podcast today, not a single malpractice provider covers non-FDA approved drugs or research chemicals or peptides like we're talking about that are on the do not compound list, not one. So anybody that literally is accused of giving a peptide that may have caused a problem to a patient, they will have no defense and their malpractice policy will not cover them. And as you know, defending yourself can run into the tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars at times. All right? So that's the one issue that's very concerning is just that alone. And so a lot of our listeners, I see this on social media as well, they'll say, well, it's just the FDA. They just don't want you to have things that work. Well, whether I agree or disagree with that statement, I'm not a big fan of FDA, but nonetheless, the FDA is trying to look after the health of the individuals. And what I mean by that is that look, in order for us to prescribe a drug, an FDA approved drug, we have to have USPI information, which is prescribing information, the package insert that we get as physicians. And those are based off of randomized controlled trials in humans. So we develop this prescribing information. For these peptides and non-FDA approved, we don't have any of that information. And what is literally involved with an FDA approved drug, this is what is required in order for us to be able to prescribe it legally, you have to have certain information. And this is the information. You have to have a boxed warning. You have to have a section of indications and usage, dosage and administration, dosage forms and strengths, contraindications, warnings and precautions, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific populations such as pregnancy, lactation, females and male reproductive potential, pediatric use, geriatric use, drug abuse and dependence, overdosage, description, clinical pharmacology, mechanism of action, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenomics, immunogenicity, non-clinical toxicology and then clinical studies. Those are all part of the package inserts we have for the drugs that we prescribe every day even when we use them off-label. We have none of that information for VPC-1257 or CJC-1295, you name it. None of those that are on the do not compound list and that's why the FDA has not approved it for human consumption. Do you have anything to add to that, David? Yeah, 100% on the malpractice. I'll start there. So, that's the biggest one. You, any event and if you've ever been through a patient complaint or a medical malpractice allegation, a lot of that can become a he said, she said, you know, medical record is the best we can do. But again, your malpractice carrier would not cover it because you are not following the law. So, you have prescribed or you've broken the law in your administration of or your practice of medicine. Therefore, that's an excluded event. It's like if I committed, you know, legal malpractice, but I knew that I was doing something wrong, right? My malpractice carrier would say, well, that's excluded, right? It's the same reason why some, well, why most policies don't cover intentional torts. Like, I can't just go around and punch people and then expect my insurance company to pay the bill. Like, there are things that are excluded. This would be one of them. So, you'd have to pay out of pocket. I would agree that $100,000 would be a good day for some of those personal injury attorneys especially medical malpractice or sorry, medical malpractice plaintiffs attorneys. And the reason that plaintiffs attorneys like this is that unlike, you know, maybe a slip and fall case where you actually have to kind of prove, you know, well, was that a reasonable standard of care, right here? They just say unapproved peptide. Therefore, law broken. Therefore, all damages that result, right? So we're really only arguing about damages, which is never where you want to be as a provider. On top of that, now we're probably getting the attention of the local medical board, right? Now, you know, inadvertently, us having to deal with that patient complaint, I wouldn't be surprised if they also put, you know, a little complaint in with the medical board. You know, I won't comment on whether that's a good strategy from the plaintiff's perspective. I'm on the provider side. But now not only are you paying out damages and dealing with this patient and their attorney that's coming at you, but now you're also fending off the complaint from the medical board for which I don't think you're going to have a great defense. I'll even go one step further. And I wanted to make sure I got this right. But in Ohio this year, they actually, the board of pharmacy suspended a license of a effectively a medical spot. They did this by just going in, looking at some of the labeling and then saying, hey, this is according to our rules app. And effectively they're just kind of drawing upon FDA rules. Now simply saying the FDA is over burdened and, you know, the state isn't going to do anything. Medical boards, boards of pharmacies are starting to get involved. Also in New York and New Jersey, specifically for, you know, well, peptides, but set in a different way. It's being regulated for minors. So we're already starting to see a wave of state regulation come in. I actually think to go, you know, another step further on what you were saying, your biggest risk and some of the videos we were watching earlier, you know, I don't have all the facts. I can't comment on their situations. But I think actually your biggest risk now is the FTC or the Federal Trade Commission. So we have the FDA. Okay. That's one federal agency. Now we have the FTC. The FTC is generally in charge of regulating how advertising and how things are represented to consumers, a consumer in this situation being a patient. So if I have a website or a reel on a social media platform saying that something is far emigrate or misleading as to whether it's legal to use or not, the FTC has public record of you saying something. And the FTC under federal rules does not mess around in terms of season to sys as well as fines. And they're also allowed in some situations, not just to go after you civil, right? So okay, a fine season to sys, stop doing that, you know, money is one thing. But criminal charges as well, which is not never a good place to be. Well, do you mind if we, since you referred to the videos, there are YouTube shorts that anybody can go look at. There are hundreds of them probably, but do you mind if we play those videos? So are you sure? Yeah, yeah. Let's play some videos. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for sterility and potency. More importantly, I discussed the treatment plan, including proper dosing based on the medical literature and appear the right peptide for your specific goal. That's a powerful, but they're only as effective as the precision behind how they're used. So whether your goal is to heal, lose weight, grow muscle, or just live longer. Remember, the peptide isn't the magic. The science, safety and supervision behind the peptide is here's the part most people fail to understand. And this part's the critical part. When I started prescribing peptides about, say 15 years ago or so, they were thought of as something kind of fringe that only compounding pharmacies made and they had to be administered via subcutaneous injection. And then about 10 years ago, the FDA began very strict oversight of pharmacies that compounded peptides and medications. And that's why a lot of peptides now you're going to see online on some pop up website that says for research use only or not for human consumption. What that really means is they're not regulated. There's no FDA to enforce testing for purity or sterility. So when someone orders peptides off a random website, they're taking on major risks. Is this peptide even real? Is it five milligrams or maybe it's only three milligrams or worse? What if the peptide's not sterile and you inject it and now you're injecting bacteria into your system? Yes, these are injectable medications that go directly into your body. So sterility and quality control are non-negotiable. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for sterility and potency. Dr. Had, your board certified anti-aging and regenerative medicine MD here to talk to you guys about something very important, which is the difference between pharmaceutical grade or pharma grade peptides and research grade peptides. So pharma grade peptides are always going to be from a licensed pharmacy. Research peptides are going to be from a research facility. pharma grade peptides are regulated by the FDA, the pharmacy board they are licensed under as well as the DEA, whereas research peptides are unregulated because they're not meant for human use. They're meant for research purposes only. Pharmaceutical grade peptides have to be prescribed by a licensed physician in the state that you are getting them prescribed into. Research peptides can be given out by anybody, including naturopaths, chiropractors, therapists, health coaches, fitness trainers, influencers, the guy at the gym, or even you can get them yourself through the gray market online by yourself. pharma grade peptides require strict lab testing, which is regulated under CGMP and USP sterile pharmacy guideline rules, meaning that they have to be thoroughly tested for purity as well as for bacterial endotoxin to make sure they're safe, that you don't develop any serious life-threatening reactions, just like every other pharmaceutical that we have. There are strict rules that regulate and govern pharma grade peptides. Research grade peptides do not have these rules. There are some research peptide companies that are doing CGMP testing. I would recommend those over the ones that aren't, but just keep in mind this still is not a requirement because they're research grade or they're meant for research purposes only. pharma grade peptides, because there is a licensed physician obtaining the medication from a licensed pharmacy and a physician-patient relationship, there has to be an informed consent to take place, which means the physician has to talk to the patient about safety, risks and benefits, actually discuss and create an informed consent to see if the patient is not at increased risk. And if the patient is, then this needs to be discussed with the patient. With research grade peptides, people are able to get them without the patient, physician, risk and benefit, stratification, and assessment. So pharma grade peptides come to you from the pharmacy on ice generally in a vial that's reconstituted, ready to inject, and doesn't need to be mixed. Research peptides come to you generally in a lialaphalized powder, which either you have to mix yourself or the person giving them to you has to mix them for you, or they might give them to you in pre-filled syringes. Generally these would come as a powder that needs to be mixed. So make sure you ask these questions when somebody's giving you peptides. Are these research grade? Are they pharmaceutical grade? For your own long-term health and your own knowledge, it's important to know if it is research grade, look for that third-party testing, see if it's from a CGMP certified facility. Look for third-party testing, see if it's pure, and also see if other people have used that same company, have a good experience with it. If you want to know more about our pharmaceutical grade offerings for peptides, all of them are pharmaceutical grade, and all of them are meeting all the criteria that I mentioned on this side of the table. But it's important to know what you're taking so you can make the right, appropriate, actionable changes in your health and the safe changes that you need to make to optimize your health the most. I don't know the exact legal setup and all the facts with these individuals, but there is only one set of rules. They are the federal rules that are administered by the FDA. So suggesting it's something as pharmaceutical grade versus intended for research only, it misses how things are legally classified and I think is slightly misleading. You're either approved or you're not. That's step one for the FDA. And then in unapproved, you basically get placed into various different, well, we're on our way to approval. It's okay. Here's the public bulletin or holy cow, stay away from this one like BBC 157. So there is, I mean, there's no secret that there is a lot of money and there are a lot of consumers for peptides, period. I will just say that and acknowledge that because I think that's why there's a lot of pressure here. And I don't think consumers or doctors are thrilled that the FDA is saying what it's saying. I have no real input on that, but that doesn't mean that you can supersede the FDA or argue with science and say, well, best interests of the patient type arguments. And I also don't like the fact that there aren't any qualifiers on these videos. So I would have liked to have seen more of a reference to, well, if you want to know more, please visit the FDA website and then boom, boom, boom, boom, here is the current list because I think that would give a lot more context. How they actually got a hold of these peptide, compounded peptides, I'm just going to assume we're referencing BBC 157, but that may not be the case. That's my main question back to the video producers. So gray area, yellow area, I have a lot of questions, period. No respectable compounding pharmacy is compounding peptides. None. I know that it's illegal to do so. So the ones that these doctors are promoting are illegally obtained. It's not even a gray area. We both know that. So a couple of things to piggyback on what you said. So I do think, I hope I'm going to be wrong on this, but I do think you're going to see a wave of lawsuits and it's going to be a new avenue for plaintiff attorneys because once again, this thing going on for a year or two or more now and any problems that a person may have that's going to blame it on that peptide, no defense for that prescriber, none at all. And that's a dangerous spot to be in. And also you mentioned the medical board. So before our podcast today, I'm licensed in several states. I did contact some representatives of several medical boards and asked them specifically about non FDA approved peptides, for instance, once again, not standard of care. You're risking your medical license suspension or revoked or being revoked by doing so. I don't know why anybody works so hard to get their medical license and degree and then willing to take such a risk to lose it. It just makes no sense to me. But nonetheless, it is happening. And I can't say this enough. This is not anti-peptides. You know, GLP ones are wonderful. There's some wonderful peptides out there, FDA approved ones that are miracle drugs, but we're talking specifically about the non FDA approved ones that the FDA has put on the do not compound list. So let me read from your website real quick just so they can get the straightforward response. So in bold print, you say, can physicians prescribe non FDA approved drugs? And the answer is the short answer is no. Physicians may legally prescribe FDA approved drugs for either their approved uses or for other off label uses supported by medical judgment. But if a drug has never received FDA approval for any indication, it cannot be prescribed, dispensed or marketed for patient care. Doing so is considered the use of an unapproved new drug, which is prohibited under federal law and it can expose providers to FDA enforcement, state medical board discipline and liability risk. For providers, the critical takeaway is that administering or prescribing a substance classified as an unapproved new drug is a violation of federal law. This category includes many popular peptides and biologics marketed as research chemicals, which lack FDA approval for any therapeutic use. Engaging in such activity can be deemed unprofessional conduct by state medical boards and may attract federal scrutiny. I don't think you could have said it any more clearly in your in your in your website. I don't know what more we can really say on the subject. It took me a while to write it succinctly. So thank you. I appreciate it. It's not easy to to write it. It seems like it is. I'll go one step further to to your previous because I see a lot of the loopholes that people believe our exceptions is just treating yourself as a health coach. So I'm not using my medical license. I'm actually now, you know, magically relabeled myself quickly as a coach. I will say to this, I will say this. It would be like somebody saying, oh, I'm not an attorney. Now I'm just a layperson, but I'm still going to give legal advice, right? That the FDA looks down to the intended use and what is actually being done. They're not dumb. And on top of that, unlicensed practice of medicine, right, or unlicensed practice of acts is usually also, again, a criminal offense as opposed to a civil offense, which is bigger is a big deal damages money is one thing. Jail, a very different thing or the threat of jail. And so magically saying that you're a health coach or well, actually, I'm not prescribing. I'm just recommending or educating. You need to be very careful in your belief system that that is a legal loophole. Now you're out of the reign of the FDA now that you're not prescribing. So I just want to hammer that home too. I'm so glad you brought that up because what we're seeing in this space, especially are a lot of non medical trained individuals that want to use the word as coaching and you hire them for coaching. But what they're actually doing is an interpreting your labs, recommending dosage of different different hormones, for instance, or even other medications. And they're actually practicing medicine without a license. No matter how many disclaimers they have, no matter how many, you know, consent forms you may sign, they're not worth the paper they're written on. Once you take money, interpret labs, give medical advice, especially with dosage or adding or subtracting certain drugs, you're practicing medicine and it is a criminal offense. It's a felony in those states, not all. And so you're seeing that a lot presently in our space as well. Yeah. I've met a client of mine and not, you know, but I can comment in general terms. There was a matter where basically a doctor was using the health coach defense, we'll call it. And the medical board, when they received a complaint and that lawyer made the argument, well, actually, you don't have jurisdiction because he is not using his medical license in the medical board. Effectively, their response was, you're right, this is unlicensed practice of medicine. We're going to refer it to the Attorney General's office for criminal prosecution. So it was really a slap in the face when they tried to use a loophole. But just to, you know, put that point home. Yeah. So that's... So if you could look in the eye, any of my colleagues or, you know, other providers that are thinking about tomorrow starting to prescribe these non-FDA approved peptides, what would be the take home message that you would tell them? Yeah, don't do it unless you're willing to assume a lot of risk, put your license on the line and also put yourself and your practice and your business on the line. Hold tight, I would say. If this really is where you want to make your stand, then, you know, lobby the FDA, go dig into the science and, you know, go talk to representatives, but don't put your... As it currently stands, as of the recording of this episode, more guidance is needed unless you want to put your license on the line. That's what I tell my colleagues and patients as well every day, I say, look, I can't tell you which of these non-FDA approved peptides work or don't work. I'm not saying they work or they don't work. I don't have the medical studies in humans to tell you if they work or don't work and what population they would work in versus one that they wouldn't. So we just don't have the information, so it's not worth the medical license to do so. There are plenty of other ways that we can improve people's health without resorting to presently what are known as research chemicals. What patients do on their own, that's on them, but what these doctors are getting and what the patients are getting, there's really not any difference. They can claim, well, I've got it from a special pharmacy and it's much better than what you're going to buy. No, they're not. They're not. So, but I really appreciate you sharing your knowledge with us today and I know you're going to be doing some lectures coming up for Whirling Medical and that's going to be wonderful. I think that we as physicians sometimes we get busy in our practice. We don't always understand the consequences of our actions and especially when it comes to doing something like these peptides because if everybody's doing it, it must be okay. The attitude they take and they certainly should be a little more cautious when it comes to these drugs. I would agree.  I don't enjoy being the party pooper. I usually like to have the work around, the exception, the something that I can give a lot of the perspective clients in this category, but a lot of what that advice has centered around is, okay, what you're doing is technically illegal. How severe are the consequences and what does enforcement look like? Which effectively you're going against legal advice. We're approaching what I might consider a criminal defense attorney needed, but that's the value that I'm offering now. And a lot of people aren't thrilled with what I say, but largely I'm just regurgitating what federal law says, I'm breaking it down, read the blogs. I always welcome feedback. If I'll try and circle around the comments for this episode too. But I take a very conservative reading of the rules. I will also say just this last week, I had a, well, more of a, we'll just say perspective client, get a large amount of unapproved peptides effectively seized at customs. So they're sitting on a ship right now, they'll probably be destroyed and we'll see, I mean, what they need to do, it wouldn't be something that I would work with, but the FDA is starting to seize unapproved peptides that are coming in through China, Korea, wherever at the border. And that is starting to become a bigger enforcement priority. That again, is not a fun place to be because not only do you lose all the money that you use to try and work around the US pharmacies that are not allowed to do that, now you could eventually face federal prosecution. So just another thing that I remembered from last week. Well, let me reiterate, this is not anything anti-peptide. Those peptides that have to be approved are miracle and wonderful drugs. I am pro-peptide. What I'm trying to do is help protect our colleagues from themselves sometimes. And once again, if a person has a problem with it, like you say, it could be criminal, civil, and deal with your medical boards. So who wants to have to deal with that? Well, David, I cannot thank you enough for coming on and providing us with this valuable information that you've given us today. I just, I hope it helps so many providers or at least makes them think twice before they do anything to potentially harm not only their reputation, but once again, face any criminal, civil, or even board actions. So if people want to learn more, like I said, I refer your website to every one of my patients that ask about peptides now. So this is all correct information that Mr. Holt has on his website. Please go read it and you understand why I can't write you a prescription for PPC 127 or CJC-1295. So this is why I can't do it. And they all seem to be very understanding. I didn't know that doc. Nobody told me everybody's doing it. I see it all over the YouTube and TikTok and Instagram. And I said, I know, but I know you do. But nonetheless, David, if people want to get in touch with you or if they want to learn more, how can we go about doing that? It'd probably be my website. So that's the one with the blog you referenced. It's just a djholtlaw.com. And in the search function, or if you say djholtlaw, peptide, it'll prop the blogs that you want. It'll probably be the top two search results. I will note, we work with the healthcare providers, not the patients, but we always strive and we're happy to have anyone read our resources. And we do a really good job of keeping those updated as guidance comes out. And I'll just say, from a personal perspective, not an attorney perspective, I am very optimistic for what we could do with peptides in the health and wellness space, being a big wellness guy myself and benefiting quite a bit from supplements and working on my own health individually. So I am a big fan. I just, from a legal perspective, that's my allegiances to my license, which therefore is federal and state law. So happy to have people visit the blog. Well, I couldn't agree with you more. And once again, my perspective is that I want doctors to be able to prescribe it in the future whenever it's legal and we have all the studies and they're not putting their license at risk. So thank you once again for coming on. I think it's gonna be valuable information. It's been valuable information for me and I'm sure it's gonna be for many others. So thank you once again. Thank you, appreciate it.