So supplements, I'm not a huge supplement first thing I recommend is a like a complex B vitamin. I don't have any specific um brand that I promote, but there's some evidence that androgens can increase your homocysteine levels, so B12 can help with that. And B and it's a super safe and super cheap supplement, so for me that's that's one I recommend. Uh creatine monohydrate it's effective, you know, maybe even latest evidence it might even improve your cognitive function if you use higher than 5 g a day. I think at 10, maybe even higher than that. Um that's one of those things is it going to change your life if you start taking creatine? No, but beneficial, effective, I think. Um another supplement that I recommend to some patients, particularly because I have a lot of obese guys, is a supplement called HMB, hydroxy beta methylbutyrate. Um and it's a supplement that reduces muscle protein breakdown while they're in a calorie deficit, which they usually are. So sometimes I'll recommend that. Maca root extract I'll recommend because it has proven effects on libido and sex drive. Sometimes L-carnitine I will prescribe actually to patients specifically with metabolic syndrome. And why? Because there's evidence that L-carnitine can help with the metabolic what's called metabolic inflexibility. So when you have the obesity that I'm talking about, you usually have a dysfunction in your liver and fat cells. They develop metabolic inflexibility, which means they can't efficiently switch from burning sugar to burning fatty acids. Also happens in your testes, by the way. Uh which is a huge problem because if you can't burn fatty acids, you can't make testosterone. So the L-carnitine actually is helps in the process of um you know, alleviating the congestion in mitochondria. That's a very lay person's way of saying it. And um the patients that benefit the most I think are the ones with very high C-reactive protein levels. So if you search L-carnitine C-reactive protein metabolic syndrome, there's a few studies showing L-carnitine can help with that. Um but that's as far as supplements go, that's pretty much it. And everything's cheap. And I don't sell anything direct any of those things directly, so um beyond that, not not many supplements that I would would recommend. You asked me about peptides. So there are some patients that are interested in peptides, and I do sometimes use tesamorelin. It's been a while since I've used it. Um but tesamorelin does reduce your visceral fat, so you know, um and probably faster than testosterone does. There's some questions about how durable the effect of tesamorelin is. Like for example, if you go off it, do you regain what you lost? Mhm. Some studies seem to suggest that, but um yeah, that's as far as like ancillaries. And then obviously I use a lot of semaglutide, tirzepatide. Um I use that like crazy. But that's not a supplement, that would just be another drug. Yeah. Cialis we use like a Cialis is virtually a supplement now. You know, I live a lot of times in Latin America, and you can just go buy Cialis over the counter. So I if you consider Cialis a supplement, low-dose Cialis also very popular. So that that's a 5 mg tadalafil daily. Yep. Very safe. Beneficial not only just for your erect Well let's start with erectile function. It's very good because even if you have moderate mild erectile dysfunction, it's very important not to ignore that because the penile tissue again to put things in lay terms, it I'm going to say it's a muscle, it's not a muscle, but if you um if you just ignore it, it tends to get worse. So if you don't have strong erections regularly and you go that way for a long time, you know, you can actually worsen the dysfunction, so I think it's important to treat early. And uh the other thing is Cialis has other benefits. There's ergogenic benefits, meaning it can increase hyperemia to your skeletal muscle while you're working out, so that may have anabolic benefits. It has mitochondrial effects, so there's some evidence that it can that it has certain anti-aging properties. Um things like that. So and it's very safe. Very few people have side effects from low-dose Cialis, and I mean I don't put everybody on it, you know, but uh if they even say they have a minor degree of ED, I think it's pretty slam dunk, especially now that it's so cheap, too. Uh and then HCG we use for fertility preservation. We didn't talk about that, but Mhm. you know, that's another thing someone asked about. And we we use a lot of HCG because that helps preserve your fertility in most cases. I mean, it's not 100% guaranteed, but the vast majority of men who start injectable testosterone, who also take 500 IUs of HCG every other day will maintain a a fertility level of sperm counts. Maybe even some who use 250 every other day at the risk of increasing side effects, of course, but I I guess most men over 40, 45, they don't care so much about their fertility anymore. They don't care about their fertility, but you know what some of them do care about is their testicular volume. So they don't like the fact that they get atrophy on the testosterone, or their put in lay terms, their balls shrink. So for those guys, yeah, I'll still give them HCG like if it's really important to them. Um but most people don't care. You know. Mhm. Um you know, we all care about different things, you know. Yeah. I always mess with my guy. I mean, are they really that smaller than they used to be? But I, you know, I give my guys a hard time, so Yeah, I I don't care about that. I don't care about my hair that I lost way before TRT, so yeah. Yeah, yeah, I mean, that's that's good. I'm fighting a losing battle, unfortunately, but it is what it is. I I can't &gt;&gt; look good. Well, you're one of the guys that looks You have a good You have a good face for baldness. I think if I was bald, I'd look like a a creature from the black lagoon, but Yeah. there are guys that can pull it off good, so you're one of them, maybe. So that's good. Anyway, you'll get used to it.