Will TRT solve all my libido issues? It's a good one. Yeah, potentially. Potentially. If you don't have testosterone, that will affect your libido most likely. So, like um but you need more than that to have libido. So, if you you know, you got to have a partner you're attracted to. You've got to have other lifestyle things that are um addressed as well. You may or may not have other co-orbidities going on that are affecting it. So if you're feeling generally unwell, you're probably not going to have much of a libido. That's not commonly what I see. Most commonly what I see is just men often with no other health conditions with low libido secondary to testosterone. And in those patients, it does work. But the one thing to think of is a lot of people when they start testosterone replacement therapy expected to be like an on-off switch. So I take it and I'm better. And sometimes it takes a long time for that to happen. So you can end up with a lot of symptoms of low testosterone. So you can have uh you're losing muscle mass no matter what you do. You're gaining body fat. You can have like um psychological symptoms. You're very stressed, things like this. Uh brain fog and those improve at different rates. So sometimes what I've seen is I'm I've got all this muscle mass back and I feel sharp, but the libido is not there. What's going on? Or the other way around, the libido comes back, but nothing else. And that's the one thing you're not really in control of at the start. You kind of just got to be patient with it and and just wait to see what happens. And I often tell patients, don't really have any expectations for six months. Often you do you get something some benefit a lot faster than that. But I think six months is a good benchmark and that's take that lets us take into account your bloods and get everything right because we don't always get it right at first. Sometimes your levels are too high or too low both of which can give you symptoms you don't really want. Um, and the other thing with the beo is it just go into it relaxed and just don't don't have any expectations of the treatment. Just see what happens. I think if you're always anxious about something, that will also tank your libido significantly as well. Is that one of the most common low symptoms you hear men complain about? Low libido. It's up there. But funnily enough, the thing that bothers men more than low libido tends to be this tiredness. So, they're saying like, "I'd like to have libido. I find my partner attractive and all of this, but I'm so tired. I just want to feel not tired first, then I'll worry about the rest." Um, so which logically makes sense really, but libido is a very very common one. Yeah. Um, and different people are in a different um stage of relationship or in different kinds of relationship where a low libido can be life ruining really. it could end marriage and things like this in some cases. Other cases partner's not really that bothered and they just want the partner better. So it that's where the like tailor made approach and taking people's own lifestyle into account comes in