 aromasin.com.com. gebracht gebracht atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu atu at that spans one side of it is if your hematocrit or the percentage of your blood cells that are red blood cells, which testosterone increases, if it gets even a little bit high, okay, normally in men, roughly about 40 to 50% is considered normal, okay, that changes from lab to lab. But there are some doctors that think, okay, it's 51%, that's really dangerous, we need to immediately get this patient phlebotomized, we need to remove one unit of blood, removing one unit of blood, you know, they always taught us in residency about drops here, hematocrit about 3%. And so that's what every patient needs a second, it's even 50.1%. They have to go immediately to the hospital, not the Red Cross, they go right to the outpatient infusion center, and we remove blood, even if it's a Sunday, we have to do it. Okay, that's one side. The other side is, who cares? Don't even check it, doesn't matter, it's not dangerous. Why do they think it's not dangerous? Oh, well, look at all these people that live above 5,000 feet, okay? The Black Hills of South Dakota, I think Rapid City is like at 5,400 feet or something like that. A lot of these patients, especially if they live on a mountain in Rapid City, their hematocrit at baseline is already high, above average, okay? They don't die of blood clots, is what these proponents say, and so probably it's fine, okay? Because what used to be, we used to in medicine call anytime your red blood cells got high, something called polycythemia. It turns out that that's not the correct way to use the term. Polycythemia really means an increase in platelets, usually your white blood cell line, and your erythroid lineages too, so your red blood cells. However, the correct term for when it's just your red blood cells is erythrocytosis. So there are certain diseases, certain cancers of the bone marrow called myeloproliferative neoplasms. The most common one, and you'll understand once I say the name of this disease, if you're an audience, remember why it gets confused, is called polycythemia vera, which is a condition where, yes, your red blood cells are increased, and yes, you have a very high risk of developing blood clots. In fact, last I read, 40% of people with polycythemia vera are not even diagnosed until they have a blood clot. So they go to the hospital, they get diagnosed with blood clot, do some genetic testing, whatever. Now we know you have polycythemia vera. Okay, so using those terms interchangeably for many decades has just mistaught a lot of doctors in thinking that red blood cells going up is the same as this other condition that is highly associated with blood clots. And it's not true. So yeah, so those are the two extreme sides is one, you have to treat everybody like they have bone marrow cancer. And the second it gets even a little high, you have to either stop it or phlebotomize them. The other side is don't even check it. It doesn't matter. It's not dangerous. Never been proven to be dangerous. I'm in the middle of those two. Okay. I have a pretty high target for phlebotomy. I think it should be around 55%. I think it should be, there's a reason why it's why I have a target of 55% that I could explain it if you're interested. But that's what I use. So that gets me around 20% of people. And also another big thing we do is we check iron levels every three months. You know, we don't let people donate if they're already iron deficient. Or we replete their iron at the same time or whatever. We have some strategy because what does happen a lot is people go to TRT clinics. They're told, hey, you got to go donate blood every two months, regardless of what your hematocrit is. And they end up becoming iron deficient without anemia, which is possible. It's possible to be iron deficient and not have anemia, which a lot of guys don't understand. So some guys feel bad on TRT, not because of the TRT, but because of all the blood donation has depleted their iron stores. That I wouldn't say is super common, but it happens with fairly high frequency. I know a lot of men that will see this video later, they will ask, why the 55%? Again, it's a number, why 54 okay and 55 not okay? So the reason why it's why my target, again, this is a, this is like an opinion thing. It is not like I have so much data and this 55 is so much better than 54. It comes from the hematology society guidelines. When I say society, various international society guidelines on when you should phlebotomize someone with chronic hypoxemic lung disease. So if you have what people commonly refer to as emphysema, let's say you were a lifetime smoker, now you have emphysema or what should be called COPD. A lot of times you develop high red blood cells. Okay. The concern anytime your red blood cells get high or your hematocrit gets high is that your blood clot risk is higher. Okay. That's never really been proven in anybody but those bone marrow cancer patients I just told you about, which they have reasons other than just a red blood cell count for why they have an increased clotting risk. They have platelet issues. They have tumors that secrete various things that, that promote blood clotting that people with just as erythrocytosis don't have. So what happens with these chronic lung disease patients is they get phlebotomized, but at a 55% or above target, it's a high target because again, we want to balance the number one risk of iron deficiency. Chances are their stimulus for continuing to get erythrocytosis is still going to be there. They're still going to keep smoking in the same way that someone non-TRT, the stimulus will still be there. The way that smoking induced erythrocytosis or lung disease induced erythrocytosis, those mechanisms and with TRT, they're not exactly the same, but it's the T, the way that testosterone increases your red blood cells is definitely not the same as the way these bone marrow cancers increase your red blood cells. So I think it's a good balance between just like careful caution and recognizing that we don't fully understand the risks of high hematocrit. Certainly hematocrit that is a standard deviation above the normal range. There's not a lot of studies. There are some studies in people with high altitude induced erythrocytosis that shows, you know, they don't have an increased clotting risk. But again, those, the mechanisms are not the exact same. So it may be the case that in the future we find out there is no risk. It may be in the future we find there is a risk. But I think after 80 years of treating people with testosterone, it's, it's better to just balance between in areas where you don't fully have all the information, settle on something reasonable. You know, you don't need every patient to go donate blood every 60 days. That is incredibly overdoing it. At the same time, do you just ignore it? You know, I don't know that the medical legally, it's impossible to do because people will get blood clots. Okay. And you know, if they get a blood clot and they're on the testosterone, the testosterone is going to be blamed. Yeah. Even if they had a total knee replacement a month prior, you know, which is highly associated with blood clotting risk. You know, that's just the way it goes. So it's a mixture where I arrived at, it's a mixture of practical concerns and balancing a lot of unknown risk. And to be perfectly honest, since I'm known for being very blunt, medical legal concerns, because I don't want my patients going to their primary care doctor and then being like, what the hell is it? Your hematocrit 62% and no one's checked it in a year. Yeah. That makes you look really bad. Um, and that's just the truth. That's part of the consideration too. Yeah. Now that being said, do I have physician patients that say to me, yeah, I know my hematocrit's 57 and I know you're going to tell me I need to donate, but F you, I'm not. And that's fine. If it's their choice, that's completely fine with me if they choose to do that. Uh, but that's where things stand. And that's kind of where I stand.