What's your stance on it? Do you ever have patients having to donate blood? >> You know, I do. Um, it's not many. It's probably about, you know, 15 to 20% have an issue where they have to donate over time. Usually, we can get that down. You know, in other words, even people who initially have to donate a lot, we over time we reduce or eliminate the need for that. There's a huge controversy right now um that spans one side of it is if if you're hematocrit or the percentage of your blood cells that are red blood cells which testosterone increases if it gets even a little bit high. Okay, normally in men roughly about 40 to 50% is nor is considered normal. Okay, it changes from lab to lab. But there are some doctors that think, okay, it's 51%, that's really dangerous. We need to immediately get this patient flabbotomized. We need to remove one unit of blood. Removing one unit of blood, you know, they always taught us in residency about drops here um hematocrit about 3%. Um and so that's what every patient needs. The second it's even 50.1%. They have to go immediately to the hospital, not the Red Cross. They go right to the outpatient infusion center and we remove blood. Even if it's a Sunday, we have to do it. Okay, that's one side. The other side is who cares? Don't even check. It doesn't matter. It's not dangerous. Why do they think it's not dangerous? Oh, well, look at all these people that live above 5,000 ft. Okay, the Black Hills of South Dakota. I think um Rapid City is like at 5,400 feet or something like that. A lot of these patients, especially if they live on a mountain in Rapid City, their hematocrid at baseline is already high above average. Okay, they don't die of blood clots is what these proponents say. And so probably it's fine. Okay, because what used to be conf we used to in medicine call anytime your red blood cells got high something called polyythemeia. >> It turns out that that's not the correct way to use the term polyythemeia really means an increase in platelets usually your white blood cell line and your arythroidid lineages too. So your red blood cells however the correct term for when it's just your red blood cells is arythroytosis. So there are certain diseases um certain cancers of the of the bone marrow called myop proliferative neoplasms. Um the most common one and you'll understand once I say the name of this this disease if you're an audience remember why it gets confused is called polyythemeia vera which is a condition where yes your red blood cells are increased and yes you have a very high risk of developing blood clots. In fact, last I read, 40% of people with polyythemeia vera are not even diagnosed until they have a blood clot. So they go to the hospital, they get diagnosed with blood clot, do some genetic testing, whatever. Now, now we know you have polyythemeia vera. Okay. So using those terms interchangeably for many decades has has just mistaught a lot of doctors and thinking that red blood cells going up is the same as this other condition that is highly associated with blood clots. And it's not true. So, so yeah. So those are the two extreme sides is one you have to treat everybody like they have bone marrow cancer and the second it gets even a little high you have to either stop it or phabbotomize them. The other side is don't even check it. It doesn't matter. It's not dangerous. Never been proven to be dangerous. I'm in the middle of those two. Okay. Uh I have a pretty high target for phabbotomy. I think it should be around 55%. I think it should be there's a reason why it's why I have a target of 55% that I could explain it if you're interested. Um, but that's what I use. So, that gets me around 20% of people. And, uh, also another big thing we do is we check iron levels every 3 months. You know, we don't let people donate if they're already iron deficient. um or we replete their iron at the same time or what we have some strategy because what does happen a lot is people go to TRT clinics they're told hey you got to go donate blood every two months regardless of what your hematocrit is and they end up becoming iron deficient without anemia which is possible it's possible to be iron deficient and not have anemia um which a lot of guys don't understand so some guys feel bad on TRT not because of the TRT but because of all the blood donation has depleted their iron stores. That I wouldn't say is super common, but it happens with fairly high frequency. >> Mhm. I know a lot of men that will see this video later, they will ask why the 55%. Again, it's a number. Why 54 okay and 55 not okay? >> So, the reason why it's why my target again this is a this is like an opinion thing. is not um uh like I have so much data and this 55 is so much better than 54. It comes from the hematology society guidelines when I say society various international society guidelines on when you should phabbotomize someone with chronic hypoxmic lung disease. So if you have uh what people commonly refer to as emphyma, let's say you were a lifetime smoker, now you have emphyma or what should be called COPD. A lot of times you develop high red blood cells. Okay, the concern anytime your red blood cells get high or your hematocrit gets high is that your blood clot risk is higher. Okay, that's never really been proven in anybody but those bone marrow cancer patients I just told you about, which they have reasons other than just a red blood cell count for why they have an increased clotting risk. They have platelet issues. They have um tumors that secrete various things that that that promote blood clotting um that people with just as arythroytosis don't have. So what happens with these chronic lung disease patients is they get phbotomized but at a 55% or above target. It's a high target because again we want to balance the number one risk of iron deficiency. Chances are their stimulus for continuing to to get ariththroytosis is still going to be there. They're still going to keep smoking in the same way that someone on TRT the stimulus will still be there. the way that smoking induced ariththroytosis or lung disease induced ariththroytosis um those mechanisms and with TRT they're not exactly the same but it's the T the way that testosterone increases your red blood cells is definitely not the same as the way these bone marrow cancers increase your red blood cells so I think it's a good balance between um just like careful caution And um recognizing that we don't fully understand the risks of high hematocrit certainly hematocrit that is a standard deviation above the normal range. There's not a lot of studies there are some studies in people um with high altitude induced ariththroytosis um that shows you know they don't have an increased clotting risk but again those the mechanisms are not the exact same. So there it may be the case that in the future we find out there is no risk. It may be in the future we find there is a risk. Um but I think after 80 years of treating people with testosterone it's it's better to just balance between in areas where you don't fully have all the information settle on something reasonable. >> You know you don't need every patient to go donate blood every 60 days. that is incredibly um overdoing it. At the same time, do you just ignore it? You know, I don't know that the medical legally it's impossible to do because people will get blood clots. Okay. Um and you know, if they get a blood clot and they're on the testosterone, the testosterone is going to be blamed. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> even if they had a total knee replacement a month prior, >> you know, which is highly associated with blood clotting risk. >> Um, you know, that's just the way it goes. So, it's a mixture where I arrived at is a mixture of practical concerns and balancing a lot of unknown risk and to be perfectly honest since I'm known for being very blunt, medical legal concerns. because I don't want my patients going to their primary care doctor and then being like, "What the hell is it? Your hematocrit's 62% and no one's checked it in a year." >> That makes you look really bad. >> Um, and that's just the truth. That's part of the consideration, too. >> Yeah. >> Now, that being said, do I have physician patients that say to me, "Yeah, I know my 57, and I know you're going to tell me I need to donate, but f you, I'm not." And that's fine if it's their choice. That's completely fine with me if they choose to do that. >> Uh but that's where things stand and that's kind of where I stand.