I see it being such a huge huge problem where when guys come to me and I see how many alcoholic drinks they're drinking per week, I don't even have to read the rest of the questionnaire to say you're going to be having side effects with your treatment. So, I've seen that you've done videos explaining how weed and alcohol are just completely derailing not just bodybuilding progress, but all health progress in general. Can you explain to the guys in in in in your way and in your words why you can't smoke weed regularly and drink alcohol regularly and be fit, healthy, and feel >> in, you know, in a lot of America, you can still be considered healthy, but you're actively taking poison. That alcohol is [\h__\h] poison. Period. It is the worst [\h__\h] you could do. You're better off snorting coke and shooting heroin than doing alcohol. Assuming that it's sterile needle practices and it's pure cocaine in a reasonable amount and it's, you know, pure heroin in a reasonable amount, not laced with fentanyl, not like you're used to 20% pure and then you get slipped some pure stuff and you overdose. I'm not talking about that [\h__\h] I'm talking about the actual medical physiological changes that occur from cocaine and from heroin are way better than the [\h__\h] that happens on alcohol. As far as weed goes, the worst thing about weed is that you're smoking. That edibles or vaping in theory, if there's not the flavoring agents, it causes popcorn lung. In theory, that's not as bad. But the study showed that marijuana delays reaction times in pilots for up to 3 weeks after they use it once. Also, marijuana causes something similar to SHBG to be released, which mops up testosterone and basically lowers your testosterone effective androgen levels, which makes you relative estrogen dominant. So, like 30 years ago, girls didn't like d sleeping with dudes who smoked weed because they thought that they had lower sex drives. that girls avoided dudes that smoked weed. It was consider like he smokes weeds and plays video games and eats pizzas and drinks Mountain Dew, he's going to be bad in bed versus the guy who doesn't smoke weed, doesn't drink, lifts weights and exercises, then he's going to be better in bed. So, girls gravitated towards physically fit dudes because they wanted a good lay that I don't know what the [\h__\h] they make their criteria based on now with dad bods and feelings and all that [\h__\h] But, I mean, the point is is before all of the gender dist disruption that's occurred in the last 10 years, girls were pretty straightforward and normal. And it was just like, "Oh, that dude's hot. I want to [\h__\h] him." And then they would. And then it's like it made it simple. It's like get hot. Money is okay, but get as hot as you can and girls will want to [\h__\h] you. And then you don't have to do anything. You just have to smile, say, "Yeah," and talk and answer questions or ask them questions and [\h__\h] just worked out. Now I have no [\h__\h] idea what the girls are looking for. They're crazy. But back used to be simple that get them off, they come back for more, and that was all there was to it. So why on earth would you take drugs that make you worse in bed? Why? And it's like, well, I'm never gonna get laid anyway because I'm ugly and girls don't like me. It's like, okay, but but you're gonna be better at video games if you're not high on weed. You know, everything you do is better if you're not on weed. You feel better on weed until you're dependent on it. Now, you need to smoke weed just to feel normal. Now, you roll out of bed, smoke weed, you're high for 10 minutes, and then you have to smoke weed every 30 minutes for the whole day just to feel normal. and you're exhausted and you have something called a motivational syndrome and you accomplish nothing. Now with the alcohol thing, the alcohol ties up your liver. It's got to use alcohol dehydrogenase. The alcohol dehydrogenase uses water. So it's dehydrating you constantly and then more importantly it creates anifreeze which is a toxin. And then your body has to burn the alcohol before it can burn fat. So, alcohol completely derails any goals in athletics or physique. Now, you're going to be like, well, there's people like Michael Phelps got eight gold medals and he smoked weed, right? And he would have gotten nine if he didn't. You know, it's like the same thing that like Mike Israel said. It's like maybe Ronnie Coleman would have gotten eight Mr. Olympia, nine Mr. Olympias if he went deeper on his squats. It's like you can point at the one in a billion person who's successful despite a a a bad behavior and say look that but you can't correlate the bad behavior with a a positive outcome. Nor can you attribute a positive outcome to a bad behavior when okay we've got the survivorship bias and we got Michael Phelps smoke weed got eight gold medals. It's like right and there's 3 billion999,999,999 guys who didn't get gold medals. And of those, a billion of them smoke weed. That that despite being having this one handicap, he's still the greatest of all time. But that doesn't mean the handicap made him better. The dude had to eat 12,000 calories worth of pasta a day. He did it by giving himself the munchies with weed. So there's a there's more factors involved. This is something that scientists don't seem to understand is real life. Because when someone goes into academia, the way that they get a PhD is they know that if they left that university, they wouldn't be able to survive in the business world. So, they have to stay in school and just go back like, "Oh, I got my four-year degree, but I don't I'm not ready to work. Mommy and daddy are just going to pay for me to get another degree." And then they get a master's degree. Then they're like, "Oh, I I don't really feel like working. I'm just going to stay in school and have mommy and daddy get me another degree." And then they get a PhD. And then, I mean, some of those people work, but like not a lot. And then eventually, they have no choice. So, what do they do? Well, they got a PhD, so now they teach college. That's and and now they're going to teach other people how to get this useless piece of paper that helps them do nothing. And so that's basically how academia is. It's a bunch of snobs that have imposttor syndrome. They know they're not actually worldly or functional adults, but they are smart in their field. So they constantly try to make other people in their field look stupid so that they can feel better about themsel. And then that's all academia is. And then they take this grant money and they fund these studies that are there to push their narrative. Like they've got an idea of what outcome they want. So they construct the method section to get the outcome they're looking for. They're not applying real scientific theory, which is you have a hypothesis, you try to prove the null hypothesis. Try to prove yourself wrong every [\h__\h] way possible. And if you can't prove yourself wrong, you have no choice but to be right. So I'm not immune to this. What I do is I pay a researcher to watch my videos and read the stuff I do and try to find me prove me wrong. I actually pay someone to go through and try to prove me wrong all the time. And he's super brilliant with writing prompts for AI. So he is a genius whose special genius ability is getting the most out of AI. And then he con him and AI programs work on trying to prove me wrong. And most of the time it's like I'm 95% right and the 5% of the time I'm wrong is some nuance like well in this population in this country they have this genetic mutation where this might not happen. It's like but they're not the people watching the video so [\h__\h] them you know it doesn't really matter. So like there's there's like a coward's way out. One of the coward ways out is to say, "Well, maybe Masteron isn't an AI and maybe Primo is an AI in some people, but in some people it's reversed." It's like, but what is some people? The way that they worded it makes it sound like it's A-50/50 thing. It ain't A-50/50 thing. It's like a 9010 thing or a 955 thing. We don't have to address outliers. We don't need that level of nuance. that once you put a blanket statement down like everybody's different and you might have a weird response. Some people take um benzo and get anxiety, that doesn't mean that we shouldn't label like may cause anxiety on every anti-anxiety med. I mean, there's a certain shot that should have said may cause actual death, but you know, that's neither here nor there. But we don't have to say like that's like saying on a painkiller may cause increased pain. Well, then no one's going to buy it and it's not even relevant. It's not even a large percentage of the population. So, you got like a tiny fraction of people that lose their hair for Masteron because they're adding Masteron. They're not replacing test with Masteron. They're adding Masteron to a super overloaded test cycle and they're doing the test wrong. They're using a lot of tests twice a week or three times a week. So, their SHBG is high and it's holding a ton of DHT. Then they add mass to it. Mass to the cycle. The mass binds to the DH to the SHG, bumps the DHT off. All the DHT goes to their hair because they're taking finasteride, which blocks the prostate converting test to DHT, but it doesn't block the hair from converting test to DHT. And then they start losing their hair. And then they always say the same thing. It's like, "Oh, when I'm taking a shower, there's a handful of hair in my hand. It's filling my trash can." It's always word for word that exact story cuz they're lying. They basically saw this myth, this urban legend online. So, they dramatize it cuz they're [\h__\h] The When the [\h__\h] else do you touch your hair? You only touch your hair in the shower. So, obviously, if you're going to have any hair in your hands, it's in the shower. And you didn't start looking at your hand counting the hairs until you took the mastra. So you're having a hypocchondriacal perception of a response. >> Yeah. >> And that's all it is. You've got a little bit of hair shedding. >> You got a you've got a hypochondriacal response where you're now hyperfocused on the hair in your hands when you're taking a shower because you heard this story on the internet and you're only looking because you're on Mastron. And that would only happen if you're using too much test and you're taking infrequently. But everyone uses too much test and everyone takes it infrequently.