 absolutely Quemetra strainer, layman living in Europe, we have heard nothing about that. And before we start, maybe let's explain to the viewers who is in that panel exactly, and what is the goal of that panel? Yeah, yeah. So the, you know, so the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration here in the US, they oversee a lot of, you know, a lot of things, you know, medicine-wise and prescription-wise here. So they held a meeting on December 10th, so just, you know, a couple days before, you know, we're having this chat. And the purpose was to kind of revisit what's going on with testosterone, the labeling of it, which, you know, which dictates the reasons doctors can actually prescribe it. Here in the, you know, here in the US, it's actually a scheduled medication. So it has some, you know, it's a controlled substance. So it's on the same list as some, you know, drugs that people use to get high, basically. I mean, things like, you know, things like opioids and benzodiazepines and things that can cause addiction. So it's kind of strange that it's on that list, and it's been for a while. So that's what they wanted to revisit here. So, you know, the FDA recently has some new leadership, right? So with our new administration here, with our new president, we have a new, you know, Director of Health and Human Services, RFK, you know, RFK. He seems to be very pro-testosterone, pro-peptides. And with that, there's a new, you know, new leadership within the FDA. Dr. Macri is kind of the new leader of the FDA. So he kind of helped put, you know, put some of this, you know, put some of this together. Basically, you know, we had, I think there were 15 people total on this panel, and it consisted of clinicians, researchers. We had, you know, some government officials there. Some of the folks there, we had, you know, someone who was a CEO of a pharmaceutical company. And some of these, you know, some of these folks also, you know, they list their, you know, their conflicts on there. So some of them are also members of boards for some of these, you know, some of these pharmaceutical companies or testosterone replacement companies, that kind of, you know, that kind of thing. So they're pretty, you know, pretty, pretty mixed panel of folks. It was actually a lot of the talk was a lot better than I thought it would be a lot, you know, a lot of forward thinking stuff. And then kind of at the end, you know, the government officials threw some cold water on all of it. It seemed like, hey, we're, you know, we're slowing this thing down. Let's not get too excited too fast. That's kind of generally, you know, that's kind of the general, the general layout of what we are, what we're looking at here. And the recording is available on the FDA website or on the FDA YouTube channel, I should say. So your viewers should go, you know, should go watch it. It's a pretty, pretty good lesson. Sure. And what has been said exactly? What, what is new? What is new? So, you know, they basically came out and said, and it was really interesting that some of them were this blunt about it. They kind of, kind of said, even opening up with the FDA director, hey, you know, for the last 40 years, we've been kind of wrong about testosterone. You know, we've been giving people the wrong idea. You know, a lot of the warnings that were out there and now, you know, not only completely wrong, but the complete opposite things like, you know, testosterone causes heart disease. I'm a few, you know, several of the panelists mentioned, not only does it not cause heart disease, it prevents heart disease, right? Not only does it not cause prostate cancer, men who have low testosterone are more likely to get the worst kind of prostate cancer. So it's really just, just kind of the opposite. You know, some of them were even, you know, laughing during it and saying, it's just so ridiculous as that's the way, the way that it's been. But things change slow, right? So when the government gets involved and has, you know, restrictions on things to undo things can take, can take a long time. You know, the argument there is maybe they shouldn't have gotten so involved in the first place. It wouldn't have been a mess to begin with, but here we are. So it does seem like they're taking some steps to maybe kind of, kind of undo, undo some of this. But some of the biggest topics were descheduling testosterone, right? So for, you know, much of the United States is a schedule three drug, which again means it's reported. There's a whole system. If your doctor wants to write your prescription, he has to look you up and make sure you're not taking these other drugs. Because of that, as soon as you walk into the office and ask about it, they're a little bit skeptical. You know, they look at you with the same eyes, the same guy who's coming in looking for, you know, some, you know, some oxycodone or some Xanax, like, Hey, what do you, what do you want this for? And then on top of that, they're, they're just, you know, the, there's a lack of education in the general, you know, primary care community about how to, how to actually prescribe this stuff. And that's something else that the panelists even mentioned too. I believe as Dr. Morgenthaler said that he was, you know, he'd think it's an embarrassment and a stain on his generation of medicine. The testosterone is so, you know, so maligned and just not taught in medical school and everything that is taught has been the complete opposite of what's, you know, what's actually true and good. So that was one of the big things they want to do. They also want to change some of the labeling. So, you know, the current labeling has very specific indications for treatment. And one of them does not include age-related testosterone decline, which is the biggest and most, you know, because the biggest impact on health by, by addressing that one thing. So again, now even if you have your doctor who's on board, you go to see him, he looks into the details of this thing quickly because he only has two minutes to do this. And he sees, Hey, you know, you don't actually meet the criteria. So, you know, sorry, you know, maybe next time. So a lot of people are kind of, kind of falling through the cracks. So, you know, many of the panelists advocated for that as well and said, Hey, that's a big thing we need to, we need to undo. They also wanted to make sure they kind of push forward and get some of the other warnings removed. So recently they removed the, you know, the heart disease warning off of there. They replaced it with saying there's some high blood pressure, you know, risk, which, okay. All right. Split the difference there. We'll take it. But the, you know, the prostate stuff, the risk of prostate cancer is going to be just completely debunked. Right. I mean, it's just not, it's just not a thing, but it does still remain on some of the labeling. So it does seem like that's going to be removed. But they did, they did kind of highlight, highlight that too. Yeah, sure. And for, for everyday practice in a TRT clinic, what is going to change now? Yeah. That's a good question. I think for the most part, it's going to be business as usual. And I think that's mostly because the primary care providers that this would affect the most, they're still either not going to be interested in doing it. They're not going to have all the knowledge to do it. And this is going to be a pretty, a pretty slow moving thing. I think if they were to, you know, enact all this stuff tomorrow, when you say, Hey, it's not scheduled anymore, we can do it. We've changed the labeling. Now you're still down to, you know, best practices and what are they actually doing? We're still going to see primary care doctors trying to prescribe one shot every two weeks or even worse, you know, a shot every month. Whereas we know best practice is probably, you know, at least two or three divided, you know, divided shots, dividing a dose for guys. And then there's some, you know, fear about where we want levels to, to get to. So many of the panelists, they seem like they're a pretty, again, seem like a pretty forward thinking, thinking group. None of them really mentioned about, you know, levels for symptom resolution or that, or that kind of thing. At the very end, a few of them did mention something about very low levels and that levels above that resolution might just be placebo. So I think two of the panelists were going back and forth saying, Hey, you know, the, you know, based upon the research, we think that any, any, you know, people with very low symptom or very low testosterone under a total of 350, they probably get good symptom resolution, but someone with levels above that who's getting symptom resolution, we think it might be placebo. So hearing things like that, you know, other people are going to hear that. A doctor's going to kind of anchor on that, on that kind of thing. So I think, you know, back to your, you know, back to your, your question there though, I think because of that, people are still going to seek out good care and they're still going to want to use TRT clinics. You're still going to talk to an expert who's doing this day in and day out. I think that, you know, the, the, the, the time for where you can just easily get this through your primary care provider and they're doing the, you know, giving you the best care with it is still going to be quite a way down the road, but it's a start. It's a start. It's the first we've heard about it in years. So I think that's a good, we have to start somewhere. Mm-hmm. And was it only TRT that was discussed or were there combinations with other drugs or, I don't know? Yeah. You know, it was, it was mostly, mostly talking about TRT. One of the panelists did bring up some of the kind of, you know, some of the mixed use things like trying HCG and some concerns for, you know, fertility and young men and all that, all that kind of, kind of deal. It was really very strongly focused on, on testosterone replacement therapy though. And it was nice because, you know, some of the panels are actually clinicians too, and they're doing it day in and day out. So they had some real good insight and they kind of had the strongest, you know, the strongest words about it. But yeah, very, very, very testosterone focused. Good, good, you know, good listen. Here in our mainstream media here in Europe, everything, fitness, bodybuilding, testosterone, anabolics, it's all demonized and thrown on the same heap. Yeah. Is it the same over there in United States or is something becoming maybe a little bit better in mainstream media? Yeah. I feel like the testosterone replacement therapy and hormone replacement therapy in general has softened, has softened quite a bit. It really depends upon how you, how you catch it though. And here, who you hear, who you're talking about it. It's definitely more accepted. People are even just, even just hearing how open people are to just discussing it amongst themselves. It used to be, you know, 10 years ago, a guy on TRT would be pretty guarded about it. Hey, I don't want to tell anyone. There's a lot of stigma. There's a lot of, you know, a lot of judgment. And now people are telling their friends, Hey, you know, you're looking great, man. What are you doing? You look like, you know, you have a new, you know, new kick in your step here. What's happening with you? And they share that. So I think it's, there's less and less stigma there. I think it's just a hard, you know, it's, it's that stigma is having a harder time dying with the actual prescribers though. I think that's the biggest, that's the biggest barrier. And I think that's probably one of the reasons we saw this meeting come forward too, right? There's a, there's a lot of, a lot of clinics doing this kind of thing and they really have to pay attention. You know, so many people are doing it. What do, you know, what, what are we missing here? So it's nice that they, that they're addressing that. The typical things that we discuss on this channel that a lot of providers do wrong, maybe like blocking estrogen or advising patients to donate blood when their hematocrit is over 52, 53, were those things discussed? You know, they didn't really get into it. And that would, that would have been interesting, right? I think that would be, there was, you know, there was a gentleman there from the, the AUA, so your urological society. And he, you know, he said he was very involved in the, you know, in the most recent guidelines. And he was a, he was a pretty, you know, he was, he was very into treating the patient and not treating the numbers. And a lot of the things he said, it made me think that the guidelines that they put forward were purposefully a little bit vague because they are a little bit vague. But that allows the clinician some leeway to kind of treat the patient and not just, not just treat some numbers. So I think that was probably the intent of the thing, especially seeing, you know, seeing what, what this gentleman who was so deeply involved in it had to say. But I think people read it, you know, verbatim and now they take, you know, go to the lowest common denominator and the biggest, you know, the biggest fear. Like I think some of those guidelines talk about donating blood if, you know, hematocrites over 55 and people take that as written in stone and off they go. But that, that stuff was not addressed. They didn't, they didn't talk about that. That would be, that would be nice to hear in a, in a separate one, kind of some of the, you know, best practice and maybe some new guidelines. Yeah. Here, you know, European and especially, or more specifically, Belgian mainstream media, your president Trump is still demonized. He's still a clown or a bad man or a dangerous president, whatever. And together with him, it goes the same for your Kennedy, your minister of health. Same thing. He's also demonized or talked about like he's a madman because he's against vaccines. Right. What was the general feeling in the, in the media and the United States there? Yeah. You mean, you mean in general about, about RFK? Yeah. Yeah. You see, you see a mix on it. He has, I would say, you know, the, you know, the Democrat party or the, you know, the more liberal, liberal leaning folks. I think they hate him just because he's, you know, he's, he's on the other side, but they have, they have a lot of, a lot of negative things to say, a lot of negative things to say about him. I see a lot of people in healthcare kind of, kind of demonizing him a little bit, a little bit too. I get, I get the feeling those folks that I talked to were also politically leaning to the, you know, to the left also, and it has a lot, a lot to do with it. He does say some fringe stuff, like occasionally they'll say something like, oh, you know, I think you could have maybe phrased that better. You might've gone a little too far there, but he also has advisors that are going to pull him back. So he's not going to make, you know, big, big, crazy decisions. And he's kind of, you know, he's kind of the, you know, the figurehead. And he's also a huge patient advocate, right? And he cares what happens with people. He's pushing things forward like this, like this idea we see, you know, we see here. And sometimes until you shine light on something, you don't realize that, that, that it needs to be changed. Like this thing's been going on for, you know, these, these, this demonization of testosterone, it's like 40 plus years of stuff going on here. And finally, you know, finally it comes back up again. So, I mean, that, that alone gives him, gives him some credibility in my book. Um, I already, I already kind of liked him though. Yeah. Well, he's looking great for his, uh, age. He's also very much into fitness, healthy living. He's a good example, right? Right, right, right. Yeah. You see some, yeah, you see the, you see some of these former, um, uh, heads, you know, and they're kind of rolling onto stage and they just don't look, you know, they're not a, they're not a picture of health. It's hard to, it's hard to take what they're saying seriously. So yeah, you like to see someone who's kind of walking the walk for sure. Yeah. Uh, you've also, uh, talked very recently with the lawyer, Rick Collins. What was his take on all this? Yeah, no, it was great talking to him. But yeah, so Rick Collins, lots, lots of insight here, probably the most, um, he's probably covered the most cases surrounding testosterone and steroids and peptides and the legalities of all this. I think he was even involved in the, you know, the Balco case with the, you know, the baseball scandals here and the, you know, the clear and the, the cream and all that, all that stuff. So he had some, um, you know, some interesting talks about, uh, you know, about the history of all of it. Um, he was a little bit skeptical. I think we were on the same page about being, you know, feeling great and optimistic at the beginning of the, you know, beginning of the talk and man, this guy's a really great. They came out really strong, including, you know, the spokesman for the FDA is like, those are strong words, pro pro testosterone. Then we get to the end and some of the, um, you know, some of the, the regulators who were actually involved in how the policies change and what has to actually happen really kind of just, you know, they were kind of a buzzkill, you know, they were, they were the party pooper. They're like, man, you know, we need some more research and we need this and that. And, you know, we just spent an hour hearing about all this great research, um, you know, about how all the research done is basically with an aging population and it's shown all these fantastic benefits from them, you know, for them. And then this, you know, this gentleman comes out and says, Hey, you know, we can't make any big decisions. We're just here to listen and let's, let's see what we can do. We'll see what the research says. And, you know, before we can make any kind of label changes. So, uh, that was a little bit of a buzzkill and Rick had seemed to have kind of that same, you know, that same thought. So he was cautiously optimistic. Um, he had a really interesting, uh, you know, perspective though, too. So we're back to that, you know, it's a scheduled substance and it's illegal. So, you know, your doctor's worried about getting in trouble with the law and with their license for prescribing this stuff. Um, and then people will take things in their own hands, right? They see like, I really think I would benefit from this. And they go out and we hear about guys, you know, underground labs and they buy, they're buying steroids and, you know, things other than testosterone and doing all this. Um, but he, he's represented folks who, you know, they're trying to just treat their own, you know, do their own TRT. So they seek out this stuff when their doctor turns them down. Now they have this controlled substance obtained illegally and now they're in trouble. Now they have to call this guy and they're spending money. They're in legal trouble. It, you know, it turns their lives upside down. So he's had a few unfortunate cases like that. Um, and it was interesting because I actually have had some patients come to me who've been self-treating like that, right? And you think you hear, oh, you've been taking some underground stuff, man, this guy's been blasting roids and, you know, he's going to be a mass monster and all this stuff. And it's not, you know, it hasn't been the case with these guys are coming to me. I'm seeing guys in their fifties and sixties that, you know, they had a bad talk with their PCP. They heard about this stuff. They got it online and they're doing reasonable protocols, right? They're taking, you know, 150 milligrams per week and divided doses and doing all the things we advocate for. The only problem is, is again, they're breaking the law, buying this stuff and who knows what they're actually getting, right? So they have this, you know, they have this underground stuff that's a questionable quality. So that's a, so that's a problem. I think it's something else that it's a big reason to deschedule this. We have people getting into legal trouble over this, over this substance. It's, uh, you know, one of the panelists mentioned that it's, um, it's less, you know, has less addictive, um, uh, risk than caffeine. Right. And then here we are, here we are people getting in legal trouble and having, having a hard time getting this stuff. So that's a real, it's a real shame. Yeah. Well, testosterone is still our own, uh, manly hormone while caffeine is, uh, still, um, yeah, uh, foreign substance, uh, for, uh, and the same goes for a lot of, um, drugs like, uh, SSRIs and so on. Um, general practitioners, they rather prescribe SSRIs because young men are depressed instead of their own hormone, which they are lacking. So that's just mind blowing sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. They even brought that up a little bit in the, in the meeting too. They were talking about mental health, you know, the mental men's health crisis in general, but mental health and the, you know, the importance of, of fixing hormones for, you know, for correcting that. Uh, I thought that was a very, you know, a very important point and there's, there's definitely better ways to do it than throwing some, you know, some outside chemical. Let's work with our own, you know, what we already have. Let's maybe top, top it off a little bit and see what we can do. Yeah. Um, sometimes I see a patient in my practice become, because they become for acne, uh, seeing me and, uh, they are on terrible, uh, TRT protocols. They get from their, uh, GP, sometimes, uh, 250 milligrams of testosterone, one shot every two or three weeks. Some of them get, uh, Nibido. Uh, so that's one shot of, uh, 1000 milligrams every, uh, three months, all protocols like that. And then, uh, they do their own research online. They see they should get one or two injections per week and then they, they buy stuff underground. Just the same thing, like you mentioned. Yeah. Yeah. It's too bad. It's too bad. I mean, in a, the, the way the system should work is you should be able to go and have an honest, you know, an honest talk with your doctor. And even if, you know, even if they're not fully on board with it, the idea of a, you know, a health criminal, we don't, you know, we don't talk about that with other things in medicine. You know, someone who's an actual drug addict comes in, they're addicted to opioids. We don't just, we don't just shun them and throw them out. We try to help them. So it's a little, it's crazy. The, the stigma behind all this. So hopefully some of that starts to die starting with this, you know, with this meeting. And the more we could talk about this, uh, which is another reason I wanted to talk to you today, the more, you know, the more we could get this out there. Let's, uh, let's, let's put an end, let's put an end to this and see what we can, see what we can do. Okay. Sure thing. Uh, any other takeaway points from this, um, FDA panel on TRT? Yeah. So, you know, there's a, there's a couple of, a couple of things here, you know, I have some, I have some of the quotes from some of the, you know, some of the, uh, the panelists in here. Let me see if I can, if I can pull them up here. Um, so there's a, there's a lot of talk in there about, you know, testosterone being, uh, um, a lifestyle drug, right? So that's, that was kind of, kind of the biggest, you know, the biggest pushes there is, you know, it's a lifestyle drug. It's for cheating in sports. It's for vanity only. Um, you know, so one of the, you know, one of the panelists who's a, you know, she's a, she's a clinician, she's, you know, testosterone therapy is not a lifestyle drug. It's a cornerstone of preventative health, a therapy that restores health function and longevity. Uh, so I think, you know, a re, you know, a reframe of, of all that is a, is a, is a smart, is a smart thing. Um, you know, we were talking, you know, there, there's a lot of talk about how testosterone can actually increase, um, uh, longevity and improve health span. So it improves all the, you know, all the markers of aging. And this is, this is covered in depth in here by multiple, you know, multiple members of the panel. We see improvements in, you know, decrease in obesity, improvements in, in, uh, diabetes, um, bone density, reduce and reduce fractures, reduction in sarcopenia or muscle loss. So these are all, you know, all aspects of aging that are going to either, you know, make a difference how your, you know, how your years are going to go, how your older years are going to be, if you're going to be active and, uh, you know, able to participate and enjoy that time or not. But the current labeling says, you know, it's not an indication to be used for aging. So unless you have some real specific, you know, you're either, you know, dead on primary or secondary hypogonadism, these in-between things aren't, uh, you know, aren't as important. That was one of the, you know, one of the, you know, the, the buzz kills from the, uh, you know, the FDA official, he actually came out and said, Hey, you know, things like, you know, um, indications like fatigue, you know, can't be, can't be a thing. You can't say you have fatigue and low testosterone. That's just not, that's just not enough. It's not, I don't know. That sounds pretty good to me. Right. And we can fix you. And now you feel better and you're, you're getting, you're getting stuff, you know, you're getting stuff done. Um, but I think, you know, back, back to some of the, you know, some of the history on this thing too, when they opened up, it's one of the first times this has been acknowledged too, is that, you know, this was done for purely political reasons. Right. So in 1988, um, the Olympics, Ben Johnson, Canadian sprinter, he, um, uh, you know, one, I think it was a hundred meter and set a world record. Right. And then he tested positive for, uh, for Winstrel, which is a steroid, right. Which ironically is not testosterone. Right. So he didn't even test positive for testosterone. So, you know, Congress got very upset. Um, you know, the government was real, all worked up, Hey, we must end cheating in sports. You must protect the children. And then, you know, moving forward from there, you know, with a lot of steam, they, uh, you know, the past, the 1990, um, you know, steroid act that made all this, all this stuff, um, uh, controlled, including testosterone. But the, you know, the more interesting part there was that they had, you know, they, they asked for witnesses before this, they asked for an expert, expert witnesses. Right. So they had, they actually had someone from the FDA come to Congress and say, don't schedule this. It's not appropriate. You don't need to do this. They had someone from the DEA come in and say, you know, don't do this. This isn't the way to do it. Someone from the American medical association. Um, and there were several, several other groups too. So they had all the, all the experts they asked, they don't do this. This isn't what you need to do. And then what did the government do? They did it anyway, right. They already had a preconceived notion. They had a plan and, you know, we must protect the children and off we go. So, you know, it must, you know, must protect sports. Yeah. And then these, all these years later, they're trying to undo it. So my point there is, I hope they do listen to the experts this time. Right. So, I mean, you asked the experts last time, you didn't listen. So if we're going to have another chance this time, please, you know, please do, please do listen. Um, I think that would be, you know, that's a real, a real important point. And I hope they, I hope they take that into consideration. Yeah, sure. Yeah. It's incredible here, uh, here too. And as I said before, they all throw it on the same heap. It's all the same thing. Uh, Winstrel, anabolics, TRT, uh, even general practitioners, they, they don't make, uh, any distinction between the two. Sure. Yeah. It's a strange time to, to, to live in, uh, they, they say, Oh, you're on steroids, but they, they get this, uh, 13 year old girls on anticonceptive pills just, uh, because of their acne, for example. And they think that that is normal as, yeah, no, it's absurd. It's absurd. Even back to the, you know, even back to the lifestyle part about it, we were, we were chatting about this a little bit too. Another thing we were talking with Rick, you know, Rick Collins about is, um, you know, they say, Hey, it's not a lifestyle thing. It's not for cosmetics, but in 2025, I mean, even if it was just for that, who cares about that? Right. I mean, you can do, you can get Botox for your face. You can get plastic surgery and get, you know, I'm allowed to go get calf implants if I want to, but if I want to, uh, you know, if I want to get my calves back to the size they were when I was 20, because I'm losing some muscle mass, I can't do that, but I can go, I can go get a dangerous surgery. Meanwhile, I'm not allowed to take this medication that has proven health benefits is going to help me live longer in general and actually has some functional muscle. So that's a little bit, a little bit crazy. And it doesn't really, uh, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but it just goes back to show it's just purely, uh, you know, it's been purely a political, a political thing. Yeah. I think, you know, before I forget too, one of the other interesting points I noted too, was, um, you know, the FDA said that the process of doing this always includes, you know, some sponsorship from, uh, from a pharmaceutical company, right. By sponsorship, I mean, you know, some involvement and they have to kind of lead the charge and give them some ideas because the FDA doesn't have all the information and they need some, you know, need someone to kind of, kind of help lead the way. Uh, so they put it out there and said, Hey, you know, we really need some, you really need some folks to do that. Um, I did note that, you know, some of the members of the panel and they were all great too. They all had great things to say, seem like they're very focused on patients, but they're also involved in companies that, um, either, uh, you know, they use testosterone gels or long acting testosterone on deconate injections or oral testosterone on deconate, you know, some oral, some oral preparations. So it makes me kind of wonder, is that something that's going to be pushed more than some of these other known things that we know to work well? I would have liked to hear them address things about, you know, how about, uh, you know, compounded medications. What do you think about, um, you know, compounded cream or, you know, even compounded injectable testosterone. I don't think, I think it's going to be quite as stretched to have the government go for, you know, back, back that kind of thing. But it was, it was curious to see that, um, you know, the folks who were there did kind of represent those, you know, those companies. Um, and, and that part of that could be, you know, they, they want that to be on board because they're seen as things that have less, less abuse potential, right? You're not going to bathe yourself in jail and get, you know, total testosterone, 2,500 out of that, or you're not going to take, you know, oral testosterone on a deconate. You can actually, I have a few guys who have some decent levels on that, but they're not going to get, you know, crazy high end or, you know, really fantastic results probably. Yeah. So that was, uh, that was an interesting point. I'd like to see where, where all that goes to. Yeah. Talking about that. Uh, I don't know where these laws come from, but, uh, like here in Belgium, a pharmacist can not compound a higher concentration of testosterone than 4%. Yeah. Four. So yeah. When I started compounded TRT cream, uh, back in 2017, I was recommended by one of your American colleagues, uh, to, to have a 20% cream made. He gave me the formula. I asked that, uh, to my personal, uh, uh, pharmacist here and, uh, he made that for me and I was happy with it. And I reordered and reordered and all of a sudden he said, Oh, Steven, I, I cannot make that for you anymore. I said, why? Yeah. Uh, I looked it up and, uh, uh, there are laws that forbid to compound higher than a 4% in Belgium. I don't know who invented that law, uh, just to prevent abuse, uh, as you just said, but, uh, what you got to do. It's almost a good enough, almost a good enough concentration for a woman. Yeah. Right. Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah. So we can order it online in an, uh, international compounding pharmacy and have it sent, uh, to us. That that's completely legal, but you cannot, uh, order it in a local pharmacy here in Belgium. Yeah. That's crazy. Well, there's some other laws like that too, in another European countries too, I think, right? Like you're, you're allowed to possess, but you're not allowed to sell or that kind of thing too. Right. So it was a little, some, some gray areas there. Yeah. Like for, like for weed and cannabis, it's all, all those mixed signals. You, you, you, you can use it and you, you, you can, uh, possess it, but you cannot buy it. Mm. So where do you get it? So it's all. Right, right, right. Yeah. And I kind of, I was wondering a little about that, that, you know, with that too, you know, here, there's been a lot of change with marijuana laws. Um, and it was just, I think there was just so much pressure, like, Hey, everyone's, everyone's kind of doing it. It's everywhere. Are we going to arrest everyone? Yeah. So I kind of wonder what the, you know, what the testosterone thing, if that's getting to be the same kind of thing, like, ah, you know, do we really need to just need to be illegal anymore? I don't know. Yeah. Let's hope so one day that it's, uh, yeah, that it can be just, uh, used by everyone and those stupid laws, uh, yeah, are abolished. Yeah. I hope so. I hope so. Yeah. But yeah, I think, I think overall, I think this was a, you know, a great panel. It's a good, it's a good listen. Definitely, you know, definitely check it out. Um, I don't know what the next step will be here. Hopefully it doesn't take him another, you know, another 40 years to do something. Yeah. Let's hope they have another talk next year with some improvements. Yeah. I hope so. I hope, you know, hopefully they invite some other, some other experts back. It would have been nice to see, um, you know, some, some folks from our community, right? I'd like to see, you know, Rick Collins on that board would be great. I think, uh, you know, Dr. Jordan Grant on there would be awesome. That would be pretty, pretty cool. Get some good representatives like that in there. So I'm volunteering them. So there you go. There you go, guys. Get out there. Okay. And any more concluding remarks on this, Mike? You know, there was, there was one other bit in here too. I thought it was interesting. I just wanted to bring up, um, Dr. Morgenthaler, you know, he was kind of responsible for just really, you know, spearheading, just, um, dispelling all the myths about prostate cancer. Uh, he had, he had a quote in here where he said that all that research was just based upon one single patient. That's where it all stemmed from one single patient in 1969. And now here we are in 2025 and it's finally, you know, it's still, it's still on the label, ready to come off. All the research has been done, but just, just beaten to death and just completely wrong. And it's gone for that, for that long. Yeah. And it was just, it's just, it's just, you know, it's absurd. Yeah. That's how medicine goes. That's how medicine goes. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, a little bit of, uh, a little bit of progress, but we'll see, we'll see what we get. Yeah. Okay. So, um, let's, uh, look forward to what we're getting, uh, next year, maybe. And, um, any, uh, advice to the viewers still, uh, listening, Mike? I think, you know, go, go watch this thing, share it with a friend, share it with your doctor and let's, uh, let's, you know, let's, let's spread the word. Okay. Thank you so much for, uh, breaking this down. Thank you so much. Yeah. Thanks for having me.