Welcome back to the TRT and Hormone Optimization YouTube channel and back with us is Mike Belulkin. Welcome back, Mike. >> Hey, thanks for having me back, Dr. Dvos. Good to see you. >> Good to see you, too. And welcome back to the show. Today we wanted to talk about the FDA expert panel on TRT that was held very recently and um you wanted to talk about that and that's very interesting because uh me as a layman living in Europe we have heard nothing about that and before we start maybe uh let's explain to the viewers um who is in that panel exactly and what is the goal of that panel. >> Yeah. Yeah. So the, you know, so the the the FDA, the Food and Drug Administration here in the US, um they oversee a lot of um you know, a lot of things, uh you know, u you know, medicine wise and prescription wise here. Um so they held a meeting on December 10th, so just you know, a couple days before, you know, we're having this chat. Um, and the purpose was to kind of revisit what's going on with testosterone, the labeling of it, which, you know, which, um, which dictates the, you can actually prescribe it. Um, here in the, you know, here in the US, it's actually a scheduled medication. So, it has some, uh, uh, you know, it's a controlled substance. So, it's on the same list as some as some uh, you know, drugs that people use to to get high basically. I mean things like you know things like opioids and bzzoazipines and things that can cause addiction. So it's kind of kind of strange that it's on that that it's on that list and it's been for a while. Uh so that's what they wanted to revisit here. So you know the FDA uh recently has some new leadership right. So with our new administration here with our new president we have a new uh you know director of health and human services RFK you know RFK. um he's seems to be very protestosterone, pro peptides and with that there's a new uh you know new leadership within the FDA. Dr. Macker um is kind of the new new leader of the FDA. So he kind of helped put you know put some of this you know put some of this together. uh basically you know they we had I think there were 15 people total on this panel and it consisted of clinicians, researchers um we had uh you know some some government officials there some of the folks there we had you know someone who was a CEO of of a pharmaceutical company and some of these you know some of these folks also you know they list their um you know their conflicts on there so some of them are also members of boards for some of these you know some of these pharmaceutical companies or or testosterone replacement companies that kind of you know that kind of thing. So, it was a pretty, you know, pretty pretty mixed panel of folks. Um, it was actually a lot of the talk was a lot better than I thought it would be. A lot, you know, a lot of forward thinking stuff. And then kind of at the end, you know, the the government officials threw some cold water on all of it. It seemed like, hey, you know, we're slowing this thing down. Let's not get too excited too fast. That's that's kind of generally, you know, that's kind of the general um uh the general layout of what we what we're looking at here. And the the recording is available on the FDA website uh or on the FDA uh YouTube channel I should say. So your viewers should go you know should go watch it. It's a pretty pretty good listen. >> Sure. And um what has been said exactly what what is new? >> What is new? So you know they basically came out and said um and it was really interesting that some of them were this blunt about it. They kind of kind of said even opening up with the FDA director, hey you know for the last 40 years we've been kind of wrong about testosterone. you know, we've been giving people the wrong idea. Um, you know, a lot of the warnings that were out there are now, you know, not only completely wrong, but the complete opposite. Things like, you know, testosterone causes heart disease. Um, if, you know, several of the panelists mentioned, not only does it not cause heart disease, it prevents heart disease, >> right? Not only does it not cause prostate cancer, men who have low testosterone are more likely to get the worst kind of prostate cancer. So, it's really just just kind of the opposite. um you know some of them were even um you know laughing during it saying it's just so ridiculous is that's the way the way that it's been. Um but things change slow right so when the government gets involved and has you know restrictions on things to undo things can take can take a long time. Uh you know the argument there is maybe they shouldn't have gotten so involved in the first place. It wouldn't have been a mess to begin with but here we are. So it does seem like they're taking some steps to maybe kind of kind of undo undo some of this. Uh but some of the biggest topics were descheduling testosterone. Right. So for you know much of the United States is a schedule three drug which again means it's reported there's a whole system if your doctor wants to write you a prescription he has to look you up and make sure you're not taking these other drugs. Uh because of that as soon as you walk into the office and ask about it they're a little bit skeptical. You know they look at you with the same eyes the same guy who's coming in looking for you know some uh you know some oxycodone or some Xanax like hey what do you what do you want this for? Um and then on top of that there they're just you know the there's a lack of education. um uh in the general you know uh primary care community about how to how to actually um prescribe this stuff. Um and that's something else that the panelists even mentioned too. Um I believe his doctor Morgan Tyler said that he was you know he think it's an embarrassment and a stain on his generation of medicine that testosterone is so um you know so maligned and and just not taught in medical school and everything that is taught has been the complete opposite of what's you know what's actually true and good. Mhm. >> So that was one of the big things they want to want to do. Um they also want to change some of the labeling. So you know the current labeling has very specific indications for treatment. Um and one of them does not include age related testosterone decline which is the biggest and most you know uh we have the biggest impact on health by by addressing that one thing. So again now even if you have your doctor who's on board you go to see him he looks into the details of this thing quickly because he only has two minutes to do this and uh he sees hey you know you don't actually meet the criteria so you know sorry see you know maybe next time. Uh so a lot of people are kind of kind of falling through the cracks. So you know many of the panelists advocated for that as well and said hey that's a big thing we need to we need to undo. Um they also wanted to make sure they kind of push forward and get some of the other warnings removed. So recently they removed the um you know the heart disease warning off of there. They replaced it with saying there's some high blood pressure you know risk which okay all right split the difference there. We'll take it. But the um you know the prostate stuff uh the risk of prostate cancer is just completely debunked right. I mean it's just not it's just not a thing. Um but it does still remain on some of the labeling. So it does seem like that's going to be removed. Um but they did they did kind of highlight highlight that too. >> Yeah. Sure. and um for for everyday practice in a TRT clinic um what is going to change now? >> That that's a good question. I think for the most part um it's going to be business as usual and I think that's mostly because the primary care providers that this would affect the most it they're still either not going to be interested in doing it, they're not going to have all the knowledge to do it and this is going to be a pretty a pretty slowmoving thing. I think if they were to, you know, enact all this stuff tomorrow and you say, "Hey, it's not scheduled anymore. We can do it. We've changed the labeling." Now, you're still down to um uh, you know, best practices and what are they actually doing? We're still going to see primary care doctors trying to prescribe one shot every two weeks or even worse, you know, a shot every month, whereas we know best practice is probably, you know, at least two or three divided, you know, divided shots, dividing a dose for guys. Um and then there's some you know fear about um where we want levels to to get to. Um many of the panelists they seem like they were pretty again seem like a pretty forward thinking thinking group. None of them really mentioned about you know um levels for symptom resolution or that or that kind of thing. Um at the very end a few of them did mention something about very low levels and that levels above that resolution might just be um placebo. So I think two of the panelists were going back and forth saying, "Hey, you know that, you know, based upon the research, we think that any any um you know, people with very low symptom or very low testosterone under a total of 350, they probably get good symptom resolution. But someone with levels above that who's getting symptom resolution, we think it might be placebo. >> So hearing things like that, you know, other people are going to hear that. A doctor's going to kind of anchor on that on that kind of thing." So, I think, you know, back to your, you know, back to your your question there, though, I think because of that, people are still going to seek out good care and they're still going to want to use TRT clinics. You're still going to talk to an expert who's doing this day in and day out. Um, I think that, you know, the the the the time for where you can just easily get this through your primary care provider and they're doing the, you know, giving you the best care with it is still going to be quite a way down the road, but it's a start. It's a start. It's the first we've heard about it in years. So I think that's a good we have to start somewhere. >> Mhm. And was it only TRT that was uh discussed or were there combinations with other drugs or uh I don't know. >> Yeah, you know it was it was mostly mostly talking about TRT. Um one of the panelists did bring up some of the kind of you know some of the mixed use things like trying HCG and some concerns for you know fertility and young men and all that all that kind of kind of deal. It was really very strongly focused on on testosterone replacement therapy though and it was nice because you know some of the panelists are actually clinicians too and they're doing it day in and day out so they had some real good insight and they kind of had the strongest you know the strongest words about it. Yeah. very very uh very testosterone focused. Um good good you know good listen. >> Mhm. Here in our mainstream media here in Europe uh everything fitness, bodybuilding, testosterone, anabolics, it's all demonized and thrown on the same heap. >> Is it the same over there in United States or is something becoming maybe a little bit better in mainstream media? Yeah, I feel like the um testosterone replacement therapy and hormone replacement therapy in general has softened has softened quite a bit. Um it really depends upon how you how you catch it though and hear who you hear talking about it. It's definitely more accepted. People are even just um even just hearing how open people are to just discussing it amongst themselves. It used to be, you know, 10 years ago a guy on TRT would be pretty guarded about it. They don't want to tell anyone. There's a lot of stigma. There's a lot of, you know, a lot of judgment. And now people are telling their friends, hey, you know, you're looking great, man. What are you doing? You look like, you know, you have a new, you know, uh, new kick in your step here. What's happening with you? And they and they share that. So, I think it's there's less and less stigma there. Um, I think it's just a hard, you know, it's it's that stigma is having a harder time dying with the actual prescribers, though. I think that's the biggest that's the biggest barrier. And I think that's probably one of the reasons we saw this meeting come forward, too, right? there's a there's a lot of a lot of clinics doing this kind of thing and they really have to pay attention. You know, if so many people are doing it, what do you know what what are we missing here? >> So, it's nice that they that they're addressing that. >> The typical things that we discuss on this channel that a lot of providers uh do wrong maybe like blocking estrogen or advising patients to donate blood when their hematocrit is over 52 53. Uh were those things discussed? you know, they didn't really get into it and that would that would have been interesting, right? I think that would be um there was uh you know, there was a gentleman there from the um uh the AUA, the so urological society, and he you know, he said he was very involved in the you know, in the most recent guidelines and he was a he was a pretty, you know, he was um he was very into treating the patient and not treating the numbers and a lot of the things he said. It made me think that the guidelines that they put forward were purposefully a little bit vague because they are a little bit vague. Um, but that allows the clinician some leeway to kind of treat the patient and not just not just treat some numbers. So, I think that was probably the intent of the thing, especially seeing, you know, seeing what what this gentleman who was so deeply involved in it had to say, but um, I think people read it, you know, verbatim and now they take, you know, go to the lowest common denominator and the biggest, you know, the biggest fear. Like I think some of those guidelines talk about donating blood if you know hematocrits over um uh 55 and people take that as written in stone and off they go. But that that stuff was not addressed. They didn't they didn't talk about that. That would be that would be nice to hear in a in a separate one cut kind of some of the um you know best practice and maybe some new guidelines. >> Yeah. here in our European and especially or more specifically Belgian mainstream media, uh, your President Trump is still demonized. He's still a clown or a bad man or a dangerous president, whatever. And together with him goes the same for um um your um Kennedy, your minister of health, same thing. He's also demonized or talked about like he's a mad man because he's against vaccines, right? >> Um what what's the general feeling in the in the media in the United States there? >> Yeah. You mean you mean in general about about RFK? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Um you see you see a mix on it. he has um I would say you know the uh you know the Democrat uh party or the you know the more liberal liberal leaning folks um I think they hate him just because he's you know he's he's on the other side but they have they have a lot of a lot of negative things to say a lot of negative things to say about him um I see a lot of people in healthc care kind of kind of demonizing him a little bit a little bit too I I get I get the feeling those folks that I talked to are also politically leaning to the you know to the left also and that has a lot a lot to do with it. Um, he does say some fringe stuff like occasionally he'll say something like, "Oh, you know, I think you could have maybe phrased that better. You might have gone a little too far there." But he also has advisers that going to pull him back so he's not going to make, you know, big big crazy decisions and he's kind of he's kind of the, you know, the figurehead. Um, and he's also a huge um patient advocate, right? I he cares what happens with people and he's pushing things forward like this like this idea we see, you know, we see here. Um, and sometimes until you shine light on something, you don't realize that that that it needs to be changed. Like this thing's been going on for, you know, these these um this demonization of testosterone. It's like 40 plus years of stuff going on here. And finally, you know, finally it comes back up again. So, I mean, that that alone gives him gives him some credibility in my book. Um, I already I already kind of liked him, though. >> Yeah. Well, he's looking great for his age. He's also very much into fitness, healthy living. He's Yeah, he's a good ambassador of health example. Right. >> Right. Right. Right. Yeah. You see some Yeah. You see the you see some of these former um uh heads, you know, and they're kind of rolling on the stage and they just don't look, you know, they're not a they're not a picture of health. It's hard to it's hard to take what they're saying seriously. So, yeah, you like to see someone who's kind of walking the walk. For sure. >> Yeah. Uh you've also talked very recently with the lawyer Rick Collins. What was his take on all this? >> Yeah. No, it was great talking to him. But yeah, so Rick Collins, lot lots of insight here. Probably the most um he's probably covered the most cases surrounding testosterone and steroids and peptides and the legalities of all this. I think he was even involved in the, you know, the Balco case with the, you know, the baseball scandals here and the, you know, the clear and the the cream and all that all that stuff. So he had some um, you know, some interesting talks about the, you know, about the history of all of it. Um, he was a little bit skeptical. Well, I think we were on the same page about being, you know, feeling great and optimistic at the beginning of the, you know, beginning of the talk and man, these guys are really great. They came out really strong, including, you know, the spokesman for the FDA. Like, those are strong words, pro protestosterone. Then we get to the end and some of the um, you know, some of the the regulators who are actually involved in how the policies change and what has to actually happen really kind of just, you know, they were kind of a buzzkill. You know, they were they were the party pooper. They're like, "Man, you know, we need some more research and we need this and that." And, you know, we just spent an hour hearing about all this great research um you know, about how all the research done is basically with an aging population and it's shown all these fantastic benefits from them, you know, for them. And then this, you know, this gentleman comes out and says, "Hey, you know, we can't make any big decisions. We're just here to listen and let's let's see what we can do. We'll see what the research says and you know, before we can make any kind of label changes." So, uh, that that was a little bit of a buzzkill. And Rick had seemed to have kind of that same, you know, that same thought. So, he was cautiously optimistic. Um, he had a really interesting, you know, perspective, though, too. So, we're back to that, you know, it's a scheduled substance and it's illegal. So, you know, your doctor's worried about getting in trouble with the law and with their license for prescribing this stuff. Um, and then people will take things in their own hands, right? They see like, I really think I would benefit from this. and they go out and we hear about guys, you know, underground labs and they buy they're buying steroids and, you know, things other than testosterone and doing all this. Um, but he he's represented folks who, you know, they're trying to just treat their own, you know, do their own TRT. So, they seek out this stuff when their doctor turns them down and now they have this controlled substance obtained illegally and now they're in trouble. Now, they have to call this guy and they're spending money. They're in legal trouble. It, you know, it turns their lives upside down. She's had a few unfortunate cases like that. Um, and it was interesting because I I actually have had some patients come to me who have been self- treating like that, right? You think you hear, "Oh, you've been taking some underground stuff, man. This guy's been blasting roids and, you know, he's going to be a mass monster and all this stuff." That's not, you know, it hasn't been the case with these guys are coming to me. I'm seeing guys in their 50s and 60s that, you know, they had a bad talk with their PCP. They heard about this stuff. They got it online and they're doing reasonable protocols, right? right? They're taking, you know, 150 milligrams per week in divided doses and doing all the things we advocate for. The only problem is is again they're breaking the law buying this stuff and who knows what they're actually getting, right? So they have this, you know, they have this underground stuff that's of questionable quality. So that's a so that's a problem and I think it's something else and it's a big reason to deschedu this. We have people get into legal trouble over this over this substance. It's uh you know one of the panelists mentioned that it's um it's less you know has less addictive um uh risk than caffeine, right? And then here we are here we are people getting in legal trouble and and having a having a hard time getting this stuff. >> So that's a real it's a real shame. >> Yeah. Well, testosterone is still our own uh manly hormone while caffeine is still um yeah a foreign substance for our body. And the same goes for a lot of um drugs like SSRIs and so on. General practitioners they rather prescribe SSRIs because young men are depressed instead of their own hormone which they are lacking. So that's just mind-blowing sometimes. >> Yeah. Yeah. And they even brought that up a little bit in in the meeting too. They were talking about mental health, you know, the mental men's health crisis in general, but mental health and you know, the importance of of fixing hormones for, you know, for correcting that. Uh, I thought that was a very, you know, a very important point and there's there's definitely better ways to do it than throwing some, you know, some outside chemical. Let's work with our own, you know, what we already have. Let's maybe top top it off a little bit and see what we can do. >> Yeah. Um, sometimes I see patients in my practice become because they they come for acne seeing me and they are on terrible TRT protocols. they get from their GP. Sometimes 250 milligrams of testosterone, one shot every two or three weeks even. Some of them get nibbido. So that's one shot of 1,000 milligrams every three months. All protocols like that. And then they do their own research online. They see they should get one or two injections per week and then they they buy stuff underground. It's just the same thing like you mentioned. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's too bad. It's too bad. I mean in a the the way the system should work is you should be able to go and have an honest, you know, an honest talk with your doctor. And even if, you know, even if they're not fully on board with it, the idea of a, you know, a health criminal, we don't, you know, we don't talk about that with other things in medicine. You know, someone who's an actual drug addict comes in, they're addicted to opioids, we don't just we don't just shun him and throw him out. We try to help them. So, it's a little it's crazy the the stigma behind all this. So hope hopefully some of that starts to die starting with this, you know, with this meeting and the more we could talk about this, uh, which is another reason I wanted to talk to you today. The more, you know, the more we could get this out there, let's uh, let's put an end let's put an end to this and see what we can see what we can do. >> Okay, sure thing. Uh, any other takeaway points from this um, FDA panel on DRT? >> Yeah, so you know, there's a there's a couple of a couple of things here. You know, I have some I have some of the quotes from some of the, you know, some of the uh the panelists in here. Let me see if I can if I can pull them up here. Um, so there's a there's a lot of talk in there about, you know, testosterone being a um a lifestyle drug, right? That's that was kind of kind of the biggest, you know, the biggest pushes there is, you know, it's a lifestyle drug. It's for cheating in sports. It's for vanity only. Um, you know, so you one of the, you know, one of the panelists who's a, you know, she's a she's a clinician. which is, you know, testosterone therapy is not a lifestyle drug. It's a cornerstone of preventative health, a therapy that restores health, function, and longevity. Uh, so I think, you know, a re, you know, a reframe of of all that is a is a is a smart is a smart thing. Um, you know, we were talking there there's a lot of talk about how testosterone can actually increase um, uh, longevity and improve health span. So, it improves all the, you know, all the markers of aging. And this is this is covered in depth in here by multiple you know multiple members of the panel. >> We see improvements in you know decrease in obesity improvements in in uh diabetes um bone density reduce and reduce fractures reduction in sarcopenia or muscle loss. So these are all you know all aspects of aging that are going to either you know make a difference how your you know how your years are going to go how your older years are going to be if you're going to be active and uh you know able to participate and enjoy that time or not. [snorts] But the current labeling says, you know, it's not an indication to be used for aging. So unless you have some real specific, you know, you're either, you know, dead on primary or secondary hypogonatism, these in between things aren't, uh, you know, aren't as important. And that was one of the, you know, one of the, you know, the the buzz kills from the, uh, you know, the FDA official. He actually came out and said, hey, you know, things like, you know, um, indications like fatigue, you know, can't be can't be a thing. You can't say you have fatigue and low testosterone. That's just not that's just not enough. >> It's not I don't know. That sounds pretty good to me. Right. If we can fix you and now you feel better and you're you're getting you're getting stuff, you know, you're getting stuff done. >> Um but I think, you know, back back to some of the you know, some of the history on this thing too when they opened up. It's one of the first times this has been acknowledged too is that, you know, this was done for purely political reasons, right? Right. So in 1988 um the Olympics Ben Johnson Canadian sprinter he um uh you know won I think it was the 100 meter and set a world record right and then he tested positive for uh for winstrol which is a steroid right which ironically is not testosterone right so he didn't even test positive for testosterone >> so you know congress got very upset um you know the government was very all worked up hey we must end cheating in sports we must protect the children and then you know moving forward from there you know with a lot of steam came they u you know they passed the 1990 um you know steroid act that made all this you know all this stuff um controlled including testosterone but the you know the more interesting part there was that they had you know they they asked for witnesses before this they asked for expert expert witnesses right so they had they actually had someone from the FDA come to Congress and say don't schedule this it's not appropriate you don't need to do this they have someone from the DEA come in and say you know don't do this this isn't the way to do someone from the American Medical Association. Um, and there were sever several other groups, too. So, they had all the all the experts they asked said, "Don't do this. This isn't what you need to do." And then what did the government do? They did it anyway, right? They already had a preconceived notion. They had a plan and, you know, we must protect the children and off we go. So, you know, it must, you know, must protect sports. >> Yeah. >> And then these all these years later, they're trying to undo it. So, my point there is I hope they do listen to the experts this time, >> right? So, I mean, you asked the experts last time, you didn't listen. So, if we're going to have another chance this time, please, you know, please do please do listen. Um, I I think that would be, you know, that's a real a real important point and I hope they hope they take that into consideration. >> Yeah, sure. Yeah, it's incredible here too in I said before, they all throw it on the same heap. It's all the same thing. Uh, Winstrol, anabolics, TRT. Uh e even general practitioners they they don't make uh any distinction between the two. >> Sure. >> Yeah. It's a strange time to to to live in. They they say, "Oh, you're on steroids." But they they get this 13 year old girls on anticonceptive pills just uh because of their acne, for example, >> and they think that that is normal. >> Yeah. >> No, it's absurd. It's absurd. Even back to the, you know, even back to the lifestyle part about it. We were we were chatting about this a little bit too. Another thing we were talking with Rick, you know, Rick Collins about is um you know, they say, "Hey, it's not a lifestyle thing. It's not for cosmetics." But in 2025, I mean, even if it was just for that, who cares? Yeah. >> How about that, right? I mean, you can do you can get Botox for your face. You can get plastic surgery and get, you know, I'm allowed to go get calf implants if I want to. But if I want to, uh, you know, if I want to get my calves back to the size they were when I was 20 because I'm losing some muscle mass, I can't do that. But I can go I could go get a dangerous surgery. >> Meanwhile, I'm not allowed to take this medication that has proven health benefits, is going to help me live longer in general, and actually has some functional muscle. Yeah. >> So, that's a little bit a little bit crazy and it doesn't really uh it doesn't make a whole lot of sense, but it just goes back to show it's just purely uh you know, it's been purely a political a political thing. >> Mhm. >> Yeah. And I think, you know, before I forget too, one of the other interesting points I noted too was um you know, the FDA said that the process of doing this always includes, you know, some sponsorship from uh from a pharmaceutical company, right? By sponsorship, I mean, you know, some involvement and they have to kind of lead the charge and give them some ideas because the FDA doesn't have all the information and they need some, you know, need someone to kind of kind of help lead the way. Uh, so they put it out there and said, "Hey, you know, we really need some, you know, really need some folks to do that." Um, and I did note that, you know, some of the members of the panel, and they were all great, too. They all had great things to say. basically they're very focused on patients but they're [clears throat] also involved in companies that um either uh you know they use testosterone gels or long acting testosterone on deckate injections or oral testosterone on deckate you know some oral some oral preparations. So it makes me kind of wonder is that something that's going to be pushed more than some of these other known things that we know to work well. I would have liked to hear them address things about, you know, how about uh, you know, compounded medications. What do you think about um, you know, compounded cream or, you know, even compounded injectable testosterone? I don't think I think it's going to be quite a stretch to have the government go for, you know, back back that kind of thing. But it was it was curious to see that um, you know, the folks who were there did kind of represent those, you know, those companies. Mhm. >> Um and and that part of that could be, you know, they they want that to be on board because they're seen as things that have less less abuse potential, right? You're not going to bathe yourself in jail and get, you know, total testosterone of 2500 out of that or you're not going to take, you know, oral testosterone a decanate. You you can actually I have a few guys who have some decent levels on that, but they're not going to get, you know, crazy high-end or, you know, really fantastic results probably. >> Yeah. >> So, that was uh that that was an interesting point. I'd like to see where where all that goes too. >> Yeah. Talking about that, uh I don't know where these laws come from, but like here in Belgium, a pharmacist can not compound a higher concentration of testosterone than 4%. >> Yeah. Four. So >> that's crazy. >> Yeah. When I started compounded TRT cream back in 2017, I was recommended by one of your American colleagues to to have a 20% cream made. He gave me the formula. I asked that to my personal uh pharmacist here and he made that for me and I was happy with it and I reordered and reordered and all of a sudden he said, "Oh, Stephen, I I cannot make that for you anymore." I said, "Why?" Yeah, I I looked it up and there are laws that forbid to compound higher than 4% in Belgium. >> I don't know who invented that law just to prevent abuse as you just said, but what you got to do >> almost a good enough almost a good enough concentration for a woman. >> Yeah, >> right. >> Yeah, that's crazy. Oh yeah, >> we so so we can order it online in an international compounding pharmacy and have it sent to us. That that's completely legal, but you cannot order it in a a local pharmacy here in Belgium. >> Yeah, that's crazy. Well, there's some other laws like that too in in other European countries too, I think. Right. Like you're you're allowed to possess but you're not allowed to sell or that kind of thing too, right? So there's a little >> some some gray areas there. >> Yeah. Like for like for weed and cannabis, it's all all those mixed sil you you you you can use it and you you can possess it but you cannot buy it. >> Mhm. >> So where do you get it? So it's all >> right. Right. [laughter] Right. >> Yeah. And I kind of I was wondering a little about that that you know with that too you know here there's been a lot of change with marijuana laws. Um and it was just I think there was just so much pressure like hey everyone's everyone's kind of doing it. It's everywhere. Are we going to arrest everyone? Yeah. >> So, I kind of wonder with the, you know, with the testosterone thing if that's getting to be the same kind of thing like, ah, you know, do we really need to need to be illegal anymore? >> I don't know. >> Yeah. Let's hope so. One day that it's uh yeah, that it can be just uh used by everyone and those stupid laws uh yeah are abolished. >> I hope so. I hope so. >> Yeah. >> But yeah, I think I think overall I think this was a you know, a great panel. It's a good it's a good listen. Definitely, you know, definitely check it out. Um, I don't know what the next step will be here. Hopefully it doesn't take him another, you know, another 40 years to do something. >> Yeah, let's hope they have another talk next year with some improvements. >> Yeah, I hope so. I hope, you know, hopefully they invite some other some other experts back. It would have been nice to see um, you know, some some folks from our community, right? I'd like to see, you know, Rick Collins on that board would be great. I think, uh, you know, Dr. Jordan Grant on there would be awesome. That would be pretty pretty cool. Get some good representatives like that in there. So, I'm volunteering them. So, there you go. There you go, guys. Get out there. >> Okay. Um, any more concluding remarks on this, Mike? >> You know, there was there was one other bit in here, too, I thought it was interesting. I just wanted to bring up. Um, Dr. Morgan Taller, you know, he was kind of responsible for just really, you know, spearheading just um dispelling all the myths about prostate cancer. uh he had he had a quote in here where he said that all that research was just based upon one single patient. That's where it all stemmed from. One single patient in and now here we are in 2025 and it's finally, you know, it's still it's still on the label ready to come off. All the research has been done, but just just beaten to death and just completely wrong and it's gone for that for that long. Yeah. >> And it just it's just it's just a you know, it's absurd. Yeah. That's how medicine goes. That's how medicine goes. >> Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, a little bit of uh little bit of progress, but we'll see. We'll see what we get. >> Yeah. Okay. So, um let's uh look forward what we're getting uh next year maybe. And um any uh advice to the the viewers still uh listening, Mike? I think, you know, go go watch this thing, share it with a friend, share it with your doctor, and let's uh let's, you know, let's let's spread the word. >> Okay. Thank you so much for uh breaking this down. Thank you so much. >> Yeah, thanks for having me.