And I think the secret goals can be great, but a lot of it's going to depend upon the health of your system, right? Because we're asking the pituitary to now now now secrete more growth hormone on its own and is it healthy and up to that task, right? So you get you get to a point where what are you actually going to get out of it? Uh and I think at best too, you know, some some of the levels that they that they show with these maybe you get like a 30 or 40% boost from that, right? Right. So maybe if you had a healthy, you know, a healthy pituitary, maybe you're getting the equivalent of like, you know, people who understand growth hormone, you know, if you're talking about it in units, maybe you're getting like the equivalent of a unit or two of of what you'd get from exogenous growth hormone out of a secret go, which could be pretty good right now. You're getting better sleep, you're getting better recovery. Um, but it's hard to know what um what you're going to get until you until you try. So I think it's an okay thing to try, right? I think older guys, you know, the expectation should be, you know, this might work, it might not. You can give it a try. Maybe you check an IGF-1 level, which is a, you know, it's an okay test and an okay measure. I don't put a lot of a lot of weight on it. A lot of things can affect that, you know, that uh that number. Um, so I like to see how people feel. I think uh you know some of the secret goggs just um improve people's sleep. I think that's a great metric to go by right if you're taking something like uh you know a lot of these things in the US just aren't available anymore but if you're taking something like tessamellin or or smearellin and you're uh you know using it you know five six nights a week and you're getting five six nights a week of way better sleep I think it's a win right there. I don't care what it's doing to your growth hormone or what it's actually doing to your IGF levels long term. you're gonna get some you're going to get some benefit from that alone. So I so I do like it for that and I think that's a f I think that's a fine way to a fine way to use those things.