Can you talk about using HCG only to restore fertility when FSH is cost prohibitive? Yeah. So, uh, Dave came to town recently and we had some discussion on this topic because there's there's a lot of talk in, um, the forums and on some of your other videos about the use of both HCG and FSH for the return of fertility when you're on testosterone therapy. But here in the states, FSH is both extremely expensive and it's kind of difficult to actually even prescribe or get because it's um classified as a biologic. So, it is not something that I have access to easily prescribe to patients and um I don't use it in my my practice at all. So, when we have someone on testosterone that desires to get their sperm count back up, we use HCG by itself. Um, one thing to note is I think there's a lot of um, misstep from patients on following up to check sperm analyses. So, you know, I think guys are told from a young age don't get people pregnant and then they think in their head that they can get people pregnant very easily and then they fail to understand that it's more difficult than it really is. So, when they're on testosterone, they think it's just going to be really easy. They'll get on HCG and everything will be fine. And sometimes it is um and even very low dosing of HCG I've seen have some um like you know they return to normal very quickly versus some people do need higher dosing of it. Um but really you don't know what dose a person needs unless you recheck a sperm analysis. Um even HCG has some you know not low cost associated with it. It's going to be lower than taking the combination of HCG and FSH for sure. Um, but you know, some people just start a very high dose out the gate to get that sperm count back up as quickly as possible. And that needs to, I think, be decided more based off of how long has the patient been on testosterone, what is their age currently, and how quickly are they trying to get things back to where they were. Um, also if they don't know if they've uh had low tes uh low sperm count to begin with, that's something to to consider too because um if they had a baseline sperm analysis that showed they already were abnormal, then they're going to probably need some additional support. Um, but the dosing that, you know, the lowest dosing that I've seen used, um, both in studies and in my practice, 500 units twice weekly. I've seen some guys get back to completely normal sperm counts and have no problem conceiving on. Um, most the studies I think more support at least three times a week or every other day dosing. Um, but again, you can kind of see what how the if if you have a little bit of time, you can start kind of low and then recheck sperm analysis and increase from there because we know some guys just won't feel well on HCG. And um, just adding a lot more of that in all at once might not be the best approach depending on the person. >> How long would it take? was the timeline when you inject HCG before your sperm count is enough to impregnate the wife. >> Good question. So I mean theoretically testosterone might not cause um aospermia in the first place. So some guys get pregnant without even taking HCG um or their wives do I should say. Um so you know the if they are at zero let's say and then they start HCG um the sperm count's going to start going back up after you take it just the amount of uh recovery period is going to vary considerably personto person. Some they might reach that baseline amount within 3 months. Um others maybe it'll take longer. But I I think it's reasonable to look at starting it at least 8 weeks prior to trying to conceive to give yourself that leeway of um you know you're not going to just make 100 million sperm overnight. So it's it is going to take some time