Welcome to the TRT and Hormone Optimization YouTube channel. And as the new guest today, we have Dr. Sean. Welcome to the channel. >> Thanks for having me. I appreciate you uh having me here. >> It's our pleasure. Always nice to see new doctors coming involved. So, uh maybe start with introducing yourself uh to the viewers. >> Yeah, so I I'm Dr. Sean Sadiki. I'm board certified in family medicine. Um but you know pretty much right out of residency I started training in functional medicine and really incorporated HRT and TRT into my practice uh along with peptide. So uh I I would say I I take a very try to take a very holistic approach to hormone replacement and TRT. >> And why did you come so interested in hormone and testosterone replacement? >> Oh man, that's such a good question. And uh you know I think the the big one is that it's such a um underlooked problem. You know you go to your primary care doctor um over here and that the standard panel is like a CBC, CMP, thyroid, lipid. So you're not even really looking for testosterone generally, right? So very underdiagnosed. Um and then when I was in residency, I worked at a university clinic. I was seeing a lot of students a ton of anxiety and depression. We're never checking hormones, right? like we're handing out anti-dopressants, but maybe the problem is the low testosterone, right? Which will impact your mental health. So, I found that we just weren't looking. It was a problem that wasn't being addressed, and you know, you get somebody on testosterone, you're putting on muscle, you're decreasing body fat, you're improving mental health, we've just saved you from three different medications potentially, right? So there's this it's cheap, it's effective, it's available. Um, and it's it's something the body makes. So there's so much positive elements to TRT and HRT. And I felt like this is something I want to make available to my patients. I want as many tools in my toolbox as possible so that I can give patients the best care that I possibly can. >> Yeah. Awesome. That's something I see in my personal practice as well. I see a lot of young patients, some 30, 40 year old guys coming in, they're on anti-depressants, SSRIs, and um instead of checking the hormones, they're just giving all out Yeah. chemicals that uh just suppress your brain really, instead of um attacking the root cause of the problem. >> Um you told me you are more into a holistic approach uh to HRT as well. What does that mean exactly? Yeah. I mean, so I like to look into why is your testosterone low? Now, this is a very difficult question. There's so many things at play here. So, head trauma, gut health, um stress levels, heavy metal exposure, viral exposures, inflammation levels, uh sleep, right? So, it's I like to try to take that approach, but I want to meet the patient where they are because it takes a lot of uh patience, discipline, um trial and error to try to figure out why is your testosterone low. Not everybody has that time or that patience to try to figure it out. So, I would like to do that, but it's also expensive, right? Like, we're getting into heavy metal testing. Um we're getting into more extensive functional medicine tests, gut health tests, maybe neurotransmitter testing. um even hormone metabolism testing. So that can all add up very quickly. Whereas you know just a a quick testosterone free total estrogen and you know your LHFSH that's it's not cheap but it's not it's not unreasonable. So I do like to try to take that approach. I would love to identify what the cause is for the person that's leading to their low testosterone. Um but you know it's often very difficult to find. So that's kind of uh what I like to do, but it's not feasible for everybody. >> Yeah, we've learned on the channel from other doctors throughout the years. Uh we're always talking about primary or secondary hypogonatism. Um but you just said there's much more to it, much more different causes. Yeah. Um like I I really love to start with gut health. Um, so gut health is going to impact your hormones in in many different ways. So the microbiome can impact how you're recycling your testosterone. So whether you're um excreting your testosterone or you're pulling it back in to um use it again, right? So that can impact your testosterone levels. Your gut microbiome is going to impact that. Um and then we can get into leaky gut syndrome where your gut barrier is not as strong as we'd like. There's gaps in the barrier. things are getting through the barrier that we don't want. Your body may start to attack those that creates inflammation that can increase your cortisol levels. Increases in cortisol will lead to decreases in testosterone and then increases in cortisol can also further increase gut inflammation. So it becomes this cycle of worsening inflammation, worsening of your hormones. Uh some people can even have lowgrade endotoxin exposure through their um gut bacteria where the endotoxin is going into the blood. It's damaging their testicles, but it's very lowrade. It's not sepsis. It's you you wouldn't even feel it. You'd be asymptomatic, but it is cause causing organ damage. Um so I'm I'm a really really big fan of trying to start with the gut, heal the gut lining, and see if we can improve testosterone levels that way. At the very least, I find people's uh mood improves, their sleep improves, immune function improves, um if they're not bloated as much, they tend to feel better. So, um a lot of benefits to approaching the gut health. >> And what kind of investigations do you start with? >> Yeah. So, I mean, I like to just start with a CBC. Even just looking at monocytes, xenophils, and basopils can tell us uh you know, there's gut health patterns, functional patterns we can look at. Um, and then really if you're looking at somebody's lifestyle, if they're not sleeping enough, they're stressed out, they're drinking alcohol on a regular basis, they're eating processed food, uh, seed oils, gluten is a problem for a lot of people. Um, so even just taking a good history can tell me you pro you likely have gut inflammation. So between the CBC and the history, we can tell. But then you can get into stool testing where they're looking at zulin. um they're looking at what bacteria do you have any pathic bacteria do you have any parasites so you can go much deeper even blood testing for like anti-gladin you know you're looking for Crohn's um so the investigation can can be very deep but you can also keep it uh pretty simple and just uh I would say treat for gut health which is thing nothing that's overly aggressive you know um colostrum is great glutamine is great these are things you could take even if you weren't sure if you had gut inflammation, you'd still probably have some benefit from them and there's very little risk of something bad happening. >> Mhm. So, are there men with low testosterone symptoms and levels that you can help completely get back to normal levels um with these uh measures without giving them testosterone? >> I would say yes. Yes, you can. I have seen it happen. Um, a lot of men don't give me the chance uh to do so. Like, you know, the the problem I find with men in general is that they're not coming to you until the problem's really bad, right? And then they they want a solution as soon as possible. So, there have I have had cases where I've been able to improve the gut health and we've been able to improve the testosterone, but honestly, I don't get a ton of chances. Usually I'm doing both at the same time. Uh so I can't say I'm consistently getting to see those results in action. >> Yeah. And um do you give out next to the supplements also um special diets to heal for example leaky gut? >> Yeah. Um I'm I'm a big fan of the Paleo diet. Um it's a very low inflammation, high nutrient-dense diet. Um bone broth is great for gut health. So, I I like to think of it as a balance between two things. You need to decrease what's going to make your gut health worse, and you need to increase what's going to make it better. What I do also find is if you're like 50/50, it's going to be on the worst side. Like, you need to significantly do more of the good and less of the bad. I would say like 7030, 8020 for most people. Um, so that I've kind of um that's my starting point for people is to start with paleo. Now, some people you you may need to do like a food sensitivity test or like a DNA test to see what foods you process um best, what is best for you, what nutrients do you need to focus more on. Like for me, for example, um I did a DNA test that told me um I'm going to be at high risk for low vitamin C, low B12, and low antioxidants. So now those are essential parts of my supplement routine. Um, a lot of people are the type where they'll take 10 15 supplements in a day. I'm not honestly like I I'll probably consistently take like five things. So, I have my core supplements that I'm always going to take and then I'll take things um for what I feel like I need in that moment. Uh, you know, my focus isn't as good. Okay, I'll take supplements for that. Oh, my energy is not as good. I'll take supplements for that. um maybe sleep's not as good or I feel a little stressed. You know, I I'll kind of rotate other supplements, but I have my core supplements that are focused on, you know, my DNA. And often for me, definitely gut health. I have done a gut test on myself. I did have um glyadin um or anti-glyin in my test that came up. Um and I know guts been a major issue for me. That's probably part of the reason I got I get so into this and I get uh passionate about it. Um I recently did a treatment on myself with some peptides. I find I'm sleeping better. I'm more energized. I'm more relaxed. Um it's uh you know the gut has connections to the brain um to the heart. It's impacting our immune system. Our neurotransmitters are made in the gut and sent up to our brain. So, if the gut is inflamed and that connection isn't optimal, it's going to impact you in many, many different ways, even if it's not just your testosterone. >> Mhm. Before we get into the peptides and TRT, um, talking of supplements, uh, what supplements and what doses maybe do you recommend every man takes? Um, yeah, to heal his gut. >> Um, so glut I like glutamine. I'll do five grams of glutamine a day. Um, I'll mix that with um I like to take a magnesium powder. Um, that the one I'm not honestly not sure of the dose of that one, but I mix that I mix those two together. Um, BPC-157 is great. Um, laurazzide is great. That's another one I like to use. Um, BPC at about somewhere between like 300 and 500 micrograms a day is pretty good. I believe the laorazzide is 500 micrograms. Don't quote me on that. I'm not 100% sure of that one. Um I like colostrum. So there's a lot of great colostrum brands. Um Armra is pretty good. You can take a scoop of that, put it in. I like to mix it all together. I So what my morning tonic you could call it is electrolytes, colos uh colostrum, glutamine, um and the magnesium powder. I just mix those all together and that's my um it's like 750 ml and I kind of drink that throughout like the first two three hours of my day. [snorts] >> Awesome. So if men are impatient or you cannot help their gut enough um when do you start TRT actually? >> Um I mean I have a pretty low threshold. Um, if if they're symptomatic, then I'm, you know, as long as their testosterone is not like really high and they're symptomatic, okay, then I would pause and evaluate like, well, it's probably not your testosterone that's making you feel this way. Let's optimize everything else and then we'll re-evaluate. Uh but you know if patients are symptomatic like you know uh increased abdominal fat, trouble putting on muscle, poor stamina, poor recovery, uh brain fog, anxiety, depression, erectile dysfunction, um decreased sex drive, if they have a combination of any, you know, you don't have to have all of them, but if you have a combination of them, your labs are showing your suboptimal, I mean, I'm def I'm open to starting on TRT. >> Yeah, sure. And what are the most common um administration routes? Um you get patients um yeah on injections on cream. Uh I guess >> yeah um I would say for me most common is injection. I mean creams are great. Um I I have inconsistent results with creams. I would say sometimes I know some guys they they respond really really well. Some people don't. And then I always worry about the the cream fatigue like the buildup on. Uh, so I just kind of chat with patients about that and let them know that you need to rotate. Uh, you can't just put it in the same spot all the time. U, but injections I would say get the most consistent results. We can alter um the dosing very easily. You know, with cream is a little more difficult. When you're doing clicks, um, you're getting like certain amounts with, you know, we can alter to the 0.1 ml, right? 0.01 ml of testosterone. So, there's a lot of flexibility. So, I do like that. Um, and then there's a compounding pharmacy. I've been working with that does a sublingual testosterone. Uh so patients have been enjoying that one as well, but I would say my go-to is definitely injectable. >> Yeah. Right. Um a question I've asked many other providers before, but I'll ask you as well. Um what typical dose do you start with? Do you start very low and increase gradually or do you start high and uh decrease uh after? >> Well, I like to start low. Um, you know, I I will base my dosing based on how bad the symptoms are and how low the testosterone is, but I would say a a a low starting point for me is 0.15 ml or 30 milligrams three times a week. Um, not everybody will start that low, but I honestly I find a lot of patients respond really well to that dose. Um, and then if they need to go higher, that like that's fine. We keep a close eye on it. I like to recheck um at least every three months in the beginning while we're kind of a tailoring the dose then but I also tell patients you've at 6 weeks you're not feeling any better then I don't anticipate you're going to feel better by 3 months. So then we'll we'll increase the dose at that point. Um so 0.15 0.2 ml or uh sorry uh let's say 30 milligrams or 40 milligrams three times a week is like a a dose I like to start at >> and then take it up from there. Yeah. I guess next to TRT, you also recommend people uh start working out, healthy diet like you mentioned. >> Of course. Yeah. So, usually the first half of my consult is we're just chatting about lifestyle. And I tell everybody there's three things that need to be in order or I can give you all the stuff in the world. You're never going to feel your best. You're not going to feel the way you want to feel. And that's going to be sleep, diet, and exercise. I rank sleep as number one. Diet and exercise are 2A and 2B. I would say those two are tied. But, you know, if you're not getting enough sleep, right off the bat, you're having low testosterone, right? I think there was a study that showed um just from not sleeping enough, there's a an initial 40% decrease in your testosterone. So, so that's a big one. You know, that's a for a lot of people, it's lowhanging fruit, but unfortunately with hustle culture, it's not always easy to prioritize sleep. So, you know, if the guy if the guy can't get the sleep and we can't get their levels up naturally, then yeah, TRT is going to be helpful um in getting them to at least feel better in the meantime. And I always tell people like either you're going to make health a priority or your pri your health is going to be made a priority for you. And you don't want you don't want that. You know, when um part of why I'm so passionate about this is when I was in residency, I'm in the hospital. I'm on the south side of Chicago. I'm seeing patients on dialysis, patients with amputated feet, um skin ulcerations, like just the quality of life was just terrible, you know, terrible. They can't travel. Um they can't eat the things they want to eat without their blood sugar spiking or their blood blood pressure going up. So, we really want to get ahead of that. You know, we want to avoid that as much as humanly possible. And in my opinion, these are very avoidable problems. Um, >> these are like blood pressure. Diabetes for most people is a lifestyle problem >> and it's not easy once you have AI don't want to just say like oh just stop eating sugar like it's not that easy. It is a very addictive substance. Um, and what if you're maybe your testosterone is low, you're depressed, your happiness comes from consuming sugar. We know it gives you a dopamine spike. So, it's going to be this, you know, this cycle that's very tough to break if you're not working with a functional doctor who's give who's focusing on getting you the right nutrients. Let's help with your sugar cravings. Let's speed up the weight loss. Let's get your hormones up. Let's get you motivated. Let's get you feeling good. Let's get you a a workout plan that you can stick with. Um, so to treat those people, in my opinion, you need a very well-rounded holistic approach. Throwing diabetes medication at them is just a temporary solution. I found all my my my toolbox was what medication can I add next? You know that that's all I knew how to do and uh I was not happy with that. I thought that was crazy. And the the human species has been around for so many years. You were telling me my only solution is a pharmaceutical. That's all I have to offer. We learn nothing about lifestyle in medical school. Nothing about nutrition. It's and these are the foundations of health which is which is crazy. So, you know, it is what it is. Um, it's an industry, right? Um, >> and shareholders are the priority. These are hospital systems. These are pharmaceutical companies. Shareholders are going to be put before patients. So, in that system, it's just impossible to put patients first. You know, they these companies have a responsibility to put their shareholders first. Legally, they have to put their shareholders first, and they're supposed to be taking care of patients. So >> same here in Europe, especially in Belgium, uh same thing goes on. Um yeah, at the university, uh conferences, uh and so on and so on, it's always disease uh pharmaceutical product, always disease pill, disease pill. Uh nobody talks about diet, resistance, training, lifestyle, sleep. We learn nothing about that. We don't learn anything about HRT as well during our medical um education. >> Nothing. I always tell people if I could roll up all the benefits of exercise into a pill, I'd be a trillionaire. There's nothing out there that is as good for you as exercise. It treats everything. >> Um it improves your sleep, it improves depression, improves blood pressure, improves blood sugar. Um obviously you're going to look better. You're going to feel better if you you know you look good, you feel good, right? So, um, and that's just that's like a very superficial tip of the iceberg of the benefits of testosterone. I mean, sorry, of of, uh, resistance training and working out, right? Like we could have a whole podcast just talking about the benefits or a whole series, I'm sure, not even just one podcast. >> Here, even in mainstream media, uh, fitness for youngsters is demonized. like testosterone is demonized, supplements, creatine is demonized. Uh going to the fitness and wanting to look good, it's all demonized. It's all bodybuilding, anabolics, it's all thrown on the same heap. It's uh yeah, it's it's incredible. It's nothing about health. It's all about Yeah. pharmaceutical agents. You you just wait till you get sick and then we'll treat you. >> Right. Right. Um, you know, like I when I was in uh residency, we'd be like, "Oh, you're pre-diabetic. You know, maybe we'll get you some metformin." Now I'm like, "You're pre-diabetic, man. We got to like turn the ship around like right now or this is going to get worse." Um, but it's very, you know, I I don't want my goal isn't to throw anybody under the bus, right? Because the problem is when you get 15 or 20 minutes with a patient and they're on a bunch of medications, you need to make sure they're safe. You need to evaluate for new disease processes. you need to check that, you know, what interactions are they having with their medication. You don't even really have time to talk to these patients about lifestyle. So, I think the system is unfortunately more to blame than uh I mean, yeah, medical education is a problem, but who's making our medical education, right? Um, so I I don't think it's I I don't think it's the doctor's fault. I think it's a very systemic problem. uh lack of education, lack of prioritizing um prevention, you know, it's unfortunate. >> You were talking about sleep. Um how do you help patients manage their sleep better? Uh any supplements or peptides? >> Oh man, sleep is honestly a very very tough one. Um for some people it's very easy. You know, all people are like, "Oh, I started taking magnesium. Now I'm sleeping way better." Right. Uh I would say magnesium I get great response on in general. Um but for often people it's it's how do they turn off their brain, right? Like how do they stop stressing? How do they relax? I think if we can find that problem, then the sleep will take care of itself. Uh for some people it's low blood sugar in the middle of the night. So um they're waking up because their blood sugar crashes, they get a cortisol spike to get their blood sugar back up and then they have trouble going back to sleep. So for those people, you can do it. You can investigate by getting yourself a blood glucose monitor, which is the expensive way of doing it. Uh the other way is to just have something with a little bit of fat, protein, and carbs right before you go to bed. If you don't wake up, we know it was a blood sugar problem. So that one's a easy thing to look into. Um so I like uh DIP is an a very interesting peptide. What it does is it decreases uh the uh inflammation in sleep centers of the brain. So, it's not going to put you to sleep that night, but it will over time supposed to help you with improving your sleep. Um, growth hormone peptides are great. Growth hormone can help with sleep. So, that'll increase sleep quality. I can't say. So, what I find is people report to me they sleep better. It's not actually helping them uh with falling asleep if that's the problem for them. But maybe for people who have trouble staying asleep, it works pretty great. Um, but then sleep hygiene is super important, right? Like so what I do in my home is I turn off all the lights. Um my wife and I have set up a red light strip into our uh like TV console in our living room where we hang out. We don't have a TV in our bedroom. The bedroom is not used for anything other than sleep and you know whatever else we do in the bedroom. Um but that's it. We do not hang out in there. It's a very >> strict space for rest, right? Um, so all our lights are off. We only have a red light on at night. We have this eight-month old baby. I found it's been very helpful for him to uh get back into sleep schedules because we we fly her family's on the West Coast. So whenever we fly and come back, his sleepru uh structure gets a little bit messed up. And I do find that him just being in the dark um helps him to kind of chill out and um get tired. So I think sleep hygiene is super important. So the other thing is blue light, right? Um, so there's been a lot of uh interesting research coming out about blue light and how it's hijacking um your circadian rhythm. So your body is not putting out nighttime hormones. Um it's sapping your dopamine. That's why a lot of people are doom scrolling on Instagram because they're they're searching for a dopamine hit, but their dopamine is actively being uh sapped by the the blue light in the screen. So blue light blocking glasses, I think, are helpful for a lot of people. Um so and then hormones, right? like uh a hormone your testosterone can help people with sleep. Now I I don't look at it as like oh take testosterone it's going to help you sleep but I do have a lot of patients who report to me oh once they started their sleep was better. >> Um gut inflammation is going to impact sleep because it's going to impact your neurotransmitters. Um thyroid function is going to impact your sleep. So you know this was a very long-winded answer to say sleep is incredibly complex. there's a lot of moving parts and I try to address the person as a whole and usually that will result in at least some improvement of sleep. There's still people who like it's it's just very difficult. Uh that's that's very much the minority of people. I think most people will respond to any one of those things or combination of the things that I mentioned. >> Yeah. You mentioned growth hormone peptides. Uh what's your opinion on GH secrets? Do you use it just to optimize uh growth hormone? >> I do. I do. Uh so I like to use it so I work with a lot of athletes. Uh so I like to I love using it with BPC um to uh improve their recovery from an injury. Um recently I had seen an article saying that the possible mechanism of BPC uh improving injuries was actually improving sensitivity to growth hormone. Now, I don't think that was proven. Uh, but we know growth hormone can help with injury recovery. We know BPC helps with injury recovery. So, I think naturally they go together very well. Uh, regardless of what the mechanism is. Um, so, you know, and then a lot of people who are like, you know, I really don't want to get on testosterone. I'm really worried about my fertility, but I want to improve my uh my my gym, like my uh my gains, my stamina, my recovery. Um, and I think they're great if they're IGF-1 is low or sub-optimal. I think they're really great candidates uh for growth hormone peptides. Um, so yeah, I'm I'm a big fan. >> You talk about um ceremorulin, tesamorin, things like that. >> Yeah, I I curl is great. Obviously, it's FDA approved. Um, so that one is uh it's the least controversial, I guess we could say. Tesla Morlin is also FDA approved. Um, I have had a few patients have some side effects from it. Nothing nothing scary, but it's kind of made me put it like, okay, let's try something else first, and if that's not working for you, then we can go to Tesla Morland. But, I mean, it is the most powerful. I find it gives the most boost to the IGF-1. Um, and then it does have the abdominal fat. Um, it it improves or decreases your abdominal fat. So, obviously, it's a very uh wanted um effect for a lot of people, but it's also the priciest of the of the growth hormones of Greg Gogg. So, um I I kind of like to discuss all of them and use that as like a backup unless somebody's like, "No, no, I really want that one." Then, okay, fine. But I just want them to be aware that I do find that there's more side effects with that one. Do you do you use peptides in your practice? >> No. No. As a dermatologist, uh sometimes people ask for melanotan, but I cannot recommend that in good. >> Sure. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Um it's it's interesting, you know, and there's a lot of different um there's different quality of peptides, right? A lot of people are ordering things online, which I would definitely recommend not doing. Um you can't we don't know about their sterility. We don't know how much of the product they're actually putting in there. Um, we don't know how they're storing the product. Um, so I mean that's that's kind of a big issue over here right now. But I mean I use a compounding pharmacy so I feel very comfortable with the peptides that I I offer. >> Yeah, sure. Um, do you also optimize other hormones like DHEA and pregnenolone? >> Um, DHEA. Yes, definitely. I don't often check pregnen alolone um because it's I mean it's almost half the price of my hormone panel alone um but I will I've started to do so more recently incorporating more pregnalone into my u uh into my recommendations u dha definitely I'm a big fan of DHEA um you know it's uh it has mood benefits brain benefits it's anti-inflammatory obviously it's a weaker version of testosterone. So, it does have some androgen effects. So, I really do like to use DHEA. >> Yeah. Awesome. Um yeah, I I I was told by other doctors before that starting from a certain age, maybe 40 45. So, for men getting older, you should um yeah, optimize all the hormones at once and DHA and pregnnenolone and thyroid and testosterone and so on. Um you have the same opinion? Um, well, I'm I'm looking at labs, right? So, if if something's optimal, my goal is to start with supplementation, you know, other than testosterone, like with thyroid, um, there's great supplements out there that'll support your thyroid function. Healing the gut will support your thyroid function, but when you're on TRT, you I do commonly see a decrease in pregnenolone and DHEA. So, it's definitely not a bad idea uh to monitor and have people supplement with those as well because if you're when you're on testosterone, there is going to be at least somewhat of a shutdown to the HBA access and that is going to impact your pregn and DHEA. So, in my opinion, it is wise um to evaluate uh and take them if you need to, which you probably will. Mhm. Um, concerning fertility, if you have relative young uh patients, maybe 30, 35 getting on TRT, uh, what do you do for fertility or to maintain fertility? >> Yeah, great question. Um, so for some people I start with incl. Um, and then if they want to maintain fertility while they're on TRT, then they can do either ATCG or inclapene. And I tell them like, our goal is to just have everything operational. We're not trying to get you to actively put out testosterone. We just want your body not to forget how to do so. Uh, so that's really the goal. And um, so yeah, definitely in younger men, I'm I'm having conversations about this. I'm always bringing up fertility. Even if you're 99% sure you're never going to have another kid, that's too much. We're still I still want to put you on something to maintain your fertility because you have the right to change your mind, right? Of course, just like anybody does and we don't want a decision you made five or 10 years ago to be the reason that you can't have a family in the future. So to me that's always a high priority. Um you know some a lot of guys are like I had a vasectomy like I you don't need to worry about this and okay fine then we definitely don't need to worry. So then I don't worry about it too much. But yeah, my cuto off is like men under 50, we're having a very much a conversation about your fertility and where you stand on that. >> You you don't get all those men on ACG, do you? >> Um, I don't force anybody uh because of course there is a price component to that. The more things you're adding uh the more expensive uh your protocol is going to be. Um, but it's it's very much personto person. Um, and I want them to know like if you want to make sure that you are able to get off testosterone and have kids again, you need to be on something to help maintain fertility. And uh, most I don't get too much argument on that one. Most people are just fine with it. >> All right. All right. Okay. So, maybe to round this up uh, let's get back uh to to the gut. what we started with. I asked myself, where do the endocrine disrupting chemicals come in? Do they enter the bloodstream more easily in people with leaky gut? Is that the reason? >> Wow, that's a great question. Um, you know, I I can't say I've looked into that specifically, but if I had to guess, I would say definitely. Um, because, you know, the gut is actually outside of the body, right? The area between the mouth and the rectum is outside of us. So we really want a strong powerful barrier to keep things out that shouldn't be. Now you know endocrine disruptors also come in this uh in the form of fragrances which is a big one. So those are bypassing the GI system entirely and getting into the blood you know through the lungs. Um but I would say anything that's an oral endocrine disruptor will likely cause more problems in somebody who has leaky gut and definitely somebody who doesn't eliminate properly. So, you know, I've heard I've heard doctors say it's okay to have a bowel movement once a week. That is crazy to me. Like, no, it's not okay to have a bowel movement once a week. Like, you're you're recycling all kinds of toxins. Everything that your body is trying to get rid of, it's either going through sweat, stool, or urine. And and stool is going to be a big one. So, we need healthy forms of elimination. So, you know, if somebody is having bowel movements once a week and they haven't had like their T3 levels checked, they they're not taking magnesium, you there's so much lowhanging fruit to having normal bowel function. That's very much not non-invasive and just really just nutrient uh repletion, not even, you know, we're going extra and above and beyond here. Um, increasing your fiber intake. Um so all all of those things are are super important. Elimination is super important. Um so yeah in if you are getting no endocrine disruptors but you have healthy um elimination then those are definitely going to be less of a problem for you. So not only yes leaky gut I would I would hypothesize it will impact how much you're absorbing these things and then also how poorly or how efficiently you're eliminating is going to further impact how well you're absorbing these. >> Yeah. Sure. Makes sense. Okay, Dr. Sean, thank you so much uh for being on uh and for sharing your knowledge. Anything more you wanted um to add or advice to the viewers? Um well, thank you so much for having me. I really enjoyed having this conversation with you. Um you know, I would say it always comes back to sleep, diet, exercise. Everything else comes after those things. Um, obviously get your hormones checked, get your labs checked first. We need to know if there's a problem to fix the problem, right? Um, and I think too many people wait uh too long, you know, the sooner you go um the more data we have, right? Like even if you're healthy, let's just know what your normal is. You can do labs once a year or once every two years and you can start to trend. Oh, something changed. My my testosterone levels are starting to go down. What habit has changed? what have I created or what am I doing that's that's impacting this. So, I think we're at a point um where it's never been easier to get this data. Um you know, it's it's not super expensive and I think it's a very worthwhile investment because if your health is good, your focus is good, your concentration is good, that's going to pay dividends in all other aspects of your life and it starts with your health. So, data is is very helpful, very important. >> Great advice. Even myself as a doctor, I only checked testosterone for the first time when I was 42 and then it was 210 nanogs per deciliter. So I checked it when I was symptomatic and low. So that was too late. I've never known my normal. >> Yeah. And I mean and doctors uh we're the worst. I find like doctors are don't make good patients, but also our lifestyles like you know uh I don't know what training is like in Europe, but I'm sure it's very rigorous and stressful and you know the residency like there was a study that showed it takes years off of people's lives. Their DNA was shortening. Our telomeres were shortening during residency. So you know our hormones take a hit, our inflammation levels go crazy, our stress hormone goes high. Um, you know, it's it's tough, but you know, we do it because we love it, right? >> Yeah, sure thing. Okay, thank you so much and talk to you next time. >> All right, sounds good. Nice meeting.