 l-valesetsin, respecting L-carnitine, integrated HRT and TRT into my practice, along with peptides. So I would say I take a very, try to take a very holistic approach to hormone replacement and TRT. And why did you come so interested in hormone and testosterone replacement? Oh, man, that's such a good question. You know, I think the big one is that it's such a underlooked problem. You know, you go to your primary care doctor over here, and the standard panel is like a CBC, CMP, thyroid, lipid. So you're not even really looking for testosterone generally, right? So very underdiagnosed. And then when I was in residency, I worked at a university clinic, I was seeing a lot of students, a ton of anxiety and depression, never checking hormones, right? Like we're handing out antidepressants. But maybe the problem is the low testosterone, right, which will impact your mental health. So I found that we just weren't looking, it was a problem that wasn't being addressed. And you know, you get somebody on testosterone, you're putting on muscle, you're decreasing body fat, you're improving mental health, we've just saved you from three different medications, potentially, right? So there's this, it's cheap, it's effective, it's available. And it's, it's something the body makes. So there's so much positive elements to TRT and HRT. And I felt like this is something I want to make available to my patients, I want as many tools in my toolbox as possible, so that I can give patients the best care that I possibly can. Yeah, awesome. That's something I see in my personal practice as well. I see a lot of young patients, some 30, 40 year old guys coming in, they're on antidepressants, SSRIs. And instead of checking the hormones, they're just giving out chemicals that just suppress your brain really, instead of attacking the root cause of the problem. And you told me you are more into a holistic approach to HRT as well. What does that mean exactly? Yeah, I mean, so I like to look into why is your testosterone low? Now, this is a very difficult question. There's so many things at play here. So head trauma, gut health, stress levels, heavy metal exposure, viral exposures, inflammation levels, sleep, right? So it's, I like to try to take that approach, but I want to meet the patient where they are, because it takes a lot of patience, discipline, trial and error to try to figure out why is your testosterone low? Not everybody has that time or that patience to try to figure it out. So I would like to do that. But it's also expensive, right? Like we're getting into heavy metal testing, we're getting into more extensive functional medicine tests, gut health tests, maybe neurotransmitter testing, even hormone metabolism testing. So that can all add up very quickly. Whereas, you know, just a quick testosterone free total estrogen and you know, your LHFSA, that's, it's not cheap, but it's not, it's not unreasonable. So I do like to try to take that approach. I would love to identify what the cause is for the person that's leading to their low testosterone. But you know, it's often very difficult to find. So that's kind of what I like to do, but it's not feasible for everybody. Yeah, we've learned on the channel from other doctors throughout the years, we're always talking about primary or secondary hypogonadism. But you just said there's much more to it, much more different causes. Yeah, like, I really love to start with gut health. So gut health is going to impact your hormones in many different ways. So the microbiome can impact how you're recycling your testosterone. So whether you're excreting your testosterone, or you're pulling it back in to use it again, right? So that can impact your testosterone levels, your gut microbiome is going to impact that. And then we can get into leaky gut syndrome, where your gut barrier is not as strong as we'd like, there's gaps in the barrier, things are getting through the barrier that we don't want, your body may start to attack those that creates inflammation, that can increase your cortisol levels increases in cortisol will lead to decreases in testosterone, and then increases in cortisol can also further increase gut inflammation. So it becomes this cycle of worsening inflammation, worsening of your hormones. Some people can even have low grade endotoxin exposure through their gut bacteria, where the endotoxin is going into the blood, it's damaging their testicles, but it's very low grade, it's not sepsis, it's you wouldn't even feel it, you'd be asymptomatic. But it is causing organ damage. So I'm a really, really big fan of trying to start with the gut, heal the gut lining and see if we can improve testosterone levels that way. At the very least, I find people's mood improves, their sleep improves, immune function improves. If they're not bloated as much, they tend to feel better. So a lot of benefits to approaching the gut health. And what kind of investigations do you start with? Yeah, so I mean, I like to just start with a CBC, even just looking at monocytes, xenophils and basophils can tell us, you know, there's gut health patterns, functional patterns we can look at. And then really, if you're looking at somebody's lifestyle, if they're not sleeping enough, they're stressed out, they're drinking alcohol on a regular basis, they're eating processed food, seed oils, gluten is a problem for a lot of people. So even just taking a good history can tell me you probably you likely have gut inflammation. So between the CBC, and the history, we can tell, but then you can get into stool testing where they're looking at zonulin, they're looking at what bacteria do you have any pathologic bacteria? Do you have any parasites? So you can go much deeper, even blood testing for like anti gliadin, you know, you're looking for Crohn's. So the investigation can can be very deep, but you can also keep it pretty simple. And just, I would say, treat for gut health, which is nothing that's overly aggressive, you know, colostrum is great, glutamine is great. These are things you could take, even if you weren't sure if you had gut inflammation, you'd still probably have some benefit from them. And there's very little risk of something bad happening. So are there men with low testosterone symptoms and levels that you can help completely get back to normal levels with these measures without giving them testosterone? I would say yes, yes, you can. I have seen it happen. A lot of men don't give me the chance to do so. Like, you know, the problem I find with men in general is that they're not coming to you until the problem's really bad, right? And then they want a solution as soon as possible. So there have, I have had cases where I've been able to improve the gut health, and we've been able to improve the testosterone. But honestly, I don't get a ton of chances. Usually I'm doing both at the same time. So I can't say I'm consistently getting to see those results in action. Yeah. And do you give out next to the supplements also special diets to heal, for example, leaky gut? Yeah, I'm a big fan of the paleo diet. It's a very low inflammation, high nutrient dense diet. A bone broth is great for gut health. So I like to think of it as a balance between two things. You need to decrease what's going to make your gut health worse, and you need to increase what's going to make it better. What I do also find is if you're like 50-50, it's going to be on the worst side. Like you need to significantly do more of the good and less of the bad. I would say like 70-30, 80-20 for most people. So that's my starting point for people is to start with paleo. Now, some people, you may need to do like a food sensitivity test or like a DNA test to see what foods you process best, what is best for you, what nutrients do you need to focus more on. Like for me, for example, I did a DNA test that told me I'm going to be at high risk for low vitamin C, low B12, and low antioxidants. So now those are essential parts of my supplement routine. A lot of people are the type where they'll take 10-15 supplements in a day. I'm not, honestly. Like I'll probably consistently take like five things. So I have my core supplements that I'm always going to take, and then I'll take things for what I feel like I need in that moment. You know, my focus isn't as good. Okay, I'll take supplements for that. Oh, my energy's not as good. I'll take supplements for that. Maybe sleep's not as good. I feel a little stressed. You know, I'll kind of rotate other supplements, but I have my core supplements that are focused on, you know, my DNA. And often for me, definitely gut health. I have done a gut test on myself. I did have gliadin or anti-gliadin in my test that came up. And I know gut's been a major issue for me. That's probably part of the reason I got, I get so into this and I get passionate about it. I recently did a treatment on myself with some peptides. I find I'm sleeping better. I'm more energized. I'm more relaxed. It's, you know, the gut has connections to the brain, to the heart. It's impacting our immune system. Our neurotransmitters are made in the gut and sent up to our brain. So if the gut is inflamed and that connection is an optimal, it's going to impact you in many, many different ways, even if it's not just your testosterone. Before we get into the peptides and TRT, talking of supplements, what supplements and what doses may be do you recommend every man takes to heal his gut? Um, so gluten, I like glutamine. I'll do five grams of glutamine a day. Um, I'll mix that with, um, I like to take a magnesium powder. Um, that the one, I'm not honestly not sure of the dose of that one, but I mixed that, I mixed those two together. Um, BPC one, five, seven is great. Um, lorazetide is great. That's another one I like to use. Um, BPC at about somewhere between like 300 and 500 micrograms a day is pretty good. Uh, I believe the lorazetide is 500 micrograms. Don't quote me on that. I'm not a hundred percent sure of that one. Um, I like colostrum. So there's a lot of great colostrum brands. Um, Armora is pretty good. You can take a scoop of that, put it in. I like to mix it all together. So what my morning tonic, you could call it is electrolytes, colostrum, glutamine, um, and the magnesium powder. I just mix those all together. And that's my, um, it's like 750 ml. And I kind of drink that throughout like the first two or three hours of my day. Awesome. So if men are impatient or you cannot help their good enough, um, when do you start TRT actually? Um, I mean, I have a pretty low threshold. Um, if, if they're symptomatic, then I'm, you know, as long as their testosterone is not like really high and they're symptomatic, okay, then I would pause and evaluate like, well, it's probably not your testosterone that's making you feel this way. Let's optimize everything else. And then we'll reevaluate. Uh, but you know, if patients are symptomatic, like, you know, uh, increase abdominal fat, trouble putting on muscle, poor stamina, poor recovery, uh, brain fog, anxiety, depression, erectile dysfunction, um, decreased extract. If they have a combination of any, you know, you don't have to have all of them, but if you have a combination of them, your labs are showing your suboptimal. I mean, I'm deaf, I'm open to starting on TRT. Yeah, sure. And what are the most common, um, administration routes? Um, you get patients, um, yeah, on injections on cream, uh, I guess. Yeah. Um, I would say for me, most common is injection. I mean, creams are great. Um, I, I have inconsistent results with creams. I would say sometimes I know some guys, they, they respond really, really well. Some people don't. And then I always worry about the cream fatigue, like the buildup on, uh, so I just kind of chat with patients about that and let them know that you need to rotate. Uh, you can't just put it in the same spot all the time. Uh, but injections, I would say, get the most consistent results. We can alter, um, the dosing very easily. You know, with cream is a little more difficult when you're doing clicks. Um, you're getting like certain amounts with, you know, we can alter to the 0.1 ml, right? Uh, 0.01 ml of testosterone. So there's a lot of flexibility. So I do like that. Um, and then there's a compounding pharmacy I've been working with that does a sublingual testosterone. Uh, so patients have been enjoying that one as well, but I would say my go-to is definitely injectable. Yeah. Right. Um, a question I've asked many other providers before, but, uh, I'll ask you, uh, as well. Um, what typical dose do you start with? Do you start very low and, uh, increase gradually or do you start high and, uh, decrease, uh, after? Well, I like to start low. Um, you know, I, I will base my dosing based on how bad the symptoms are and how low the testosterone is, but I would say, uh, uh, a low starting point for me is 0.15 ml or 30 milligrams three times a week. Um, not everybody will start that low, but I honestly, I find a lot of patients respond really well to that dose. Um, and then if they need to go higher that like, that's fine. We keep a close eye on it. I like to recheck, um, at least every three months in the beginning while we're kind of a tailoring the dose then, but I also tell patients you've had six weeks, you're not feeling any better than I don't anticipate. You're going to feel better by three months. So then we'll, we'll increase the dose at that point. Um, so 0.15, 0.2 ml, or, uh, sorry, let's say 30 milligrams or 40 milligrams three times a week is like a dose I like to start at and then take it up from there. Yeah. I guess next to TRT, you also recommend people, uh, start, uh, working out healthy diet, like you mentioned. Yeah. So usually the first half of my consult is we're just chatting about lifestyle and I tell everybody there's three things that need to be in order, or I can give you all this stuff in the world. You're never going to feel your best. You're not going to feel the way you want to feel. And that's going to be sleep, diet, and exercise. I rank sleep as number one diet and exercise are two a and two B. I would say those two are tied, but you know, if you're not getting enough sleep right off the bat, you're having low testosterone, right? I think there was a study that showed, um, just from not sleeping enough, there's an initial 40% decrease in your testosterone. So, so that's a big one, you know, that's a, for a lot of people, it's low hanging fruit, but unfortunately with hustle culture, it's not always easy to prioritize sleep. So, you know, if the guy, if the guy can't get the sleep and we can't get their levels up naturally, then yeah, TRT is going to be helpful, um, in getting them to at least feel better in the meantime. And I always tell people like either you're going to make health a priority or your, your health is going to be made a priority for you. And you don't want, you don't want that. You know, when, um, part of why I'm so passionate about this is when I was in residency, I'm in the hospital, I'm on the South side of Chicago. I'm seeing patients on dialysis, patients with amputated feet, um, skin ulcerations, like just the quality of life was just terrible, you know, terrible. They can't travel. Um, they can't eat the things they want to eat without their blood sugar spiking or their blood blood pressure going up. So we really want to get ahead of that. You know, we want to avoid that as much as humanly possible. And in my opinion, these are very avoidable problems. Um, these are like blood pressure, diabetes for most people is a lifestyle problem. And it's not easy once you have, I don't want to just say like, Oh, just stop eating sugar. Like, it's not that easy. It is a very addictive substance. Um, and what, if you're, maybe your testosterone is low, you're depressed, your happiness comes from consuming sugar. We know it gives you a dopamine spike. So it's going to be this, you know, this cycle that's very tough to break. If you're not working with a functional doctor, who's give, who's focusing on getting you the right nutrients, let's help with your sugar cravings. Let's speed up the weight loss. Let's get your hormones up. Let's get you motivated. Let's get you feeling good. Let's get you a workout plan that you can stick with. Um, so to treat those people, in my opinion, you need a very well-rounded holistic approach, throwing diabetes medication at them is just a temporary solution. I found out my, my, my toolbox was what medication can I add next? You know, that that's all I knew how to do. And, uh, I was not happy with that. I thought that was crazy. And the human species has been around for so many years. You were telling me my only solution is a pharmaceutical. That's all I have to offer. We learn nothing about lifestyle in medical school, nothing about nutrition. It's, and these are the foundations of health, which is, which is crazy. So, you know, it is what it is. Um, it's an industry, right? Um, and shareholders are the priority. These are hospital systems. These are pharmaceutical companies. Shareholders are going to be put before patients. So in that system, it's just impossible to put patients first. You know, these companies have a responsibility to put their shareholders first legally. They have to put their shareholders first and they're supposed to be taking care of patients. So same here in Europe, especially in Belgium. Uh, same thing goes on. Um, yeah, at the university, uh, conferences, uh, and so on and so on. It's always disease, uh, pharmaceutical, uh, product, always disease pill, disease pill. Uh, nobody talks about diet, diet, resistance, training, uh, lifestyle sleep. We learn nothing about that. We don't learn anything about HRT, uh, as well, uh, during our medical, um, education. Nothing. I always tell people if I could roll up all the benefits of exercise into a pill, I'd be a trillionaire. There's nothing out there that is as good for you as exercise. It treats everything. Um, it improves your sleep. It improves depression, improves blood pressure, improves blood sugar. Um, obviously you're, you're going to look better. You're going to feel better. If you, you know, you look good, you feel good. Right. So, um, and that's just, that's like a very superficial tip of the iceberg of the benefits of testosterone. I mean, sorry, of, of, uh, resistance training and working out, right. Like we could have a whole podcast just talking about the benefits or a whole series. I'm sure not even just one podcast here, even in mainstream media, uh, fitness for youngsters is demonized. Like testosterone is demonized supplements. Creatine is demonized, uh, going to the fitness and wanting to look good. It's all demonized. It's all bodybuilding anabolics. It's all thrown on the same heap. It's, uh, yeah, it's, it's incredible. It's nothing about health. It's all about, yeah, pharmaceutical agents. You, you just wait till you get sick and then it will treat you. Right. Right. Um, you know, like, uh, when I was in a residency, we'd be like, Oh, you're pre-diabetic, you know, maybe we'll get you some metformin. Now I'm like, you're pre-diabetic, man. We got to like turn the ship around like right now, or this is going to get worse. Um, but it's very, you know, I, I don't want, my goal isn't to throw anybody under the bus, right? Because the problem is when you get 15 or 20 minutes with a patient and they're on a bunch of medications, you need to make sure they're safe. You need to evaluate for new disease processes. You need to check that, you know, what interactions are they having with their medication? You don't even really have time to talk to these patients about lifestyle. So I think the system is unfortunately more to blame than, uh, I mean, yeah, medical education is a problem, but who's making our medical education. Right. Um, so I don't think it's, I don't think it's the doctor's fault. I think it's a very systemic problem, uh, lack of education, lack of prioritizing, um, prevention, you know, it's unfortunate. You were talking about sleep. Um, how do you help patients manage their sleep better? Uh, any supplements or peptides? Oh man, sleep is honestly a very, very tough one. Um, for some people it's very easy and you know, all the people are like, Oh, I started taking magnesium. Now I'm sleeping way better. Right. Uh, I would say magnesium. I get great response on in general. Um, but for often people it's, it's how do they turn off their brain, right? Like how do they stop stressing? How do they relax? I think if we can find that problem, then the sleep will take care of itself. Uh, for some people it's low blood sugar in the middle of the night. So, um, they're waking up because their blood sugar crashes. They get a cortisol spike to get their blood sugar back up and then they have trouble going back to sleep. So for those people, you can do it. You can investigate by getting yourself a blood glucose monitor, which is the expensive way of doing it. Uh, the other way is to just have something with a little bit of fat, protein, and carbs right before you go to bed. If you don't wake up, we know it was a blood sugar problem. So that one's a easy thing to look into. Um, so I like, uh, D-sip is an interest, a very interesting peptide. What it does is it decreases, uh, the, uh, inflammation and sleep centers of the brain. So it's not going to put you to sleep that night, but it will over time supposed to help you with improving your sleep. Um, growth hormone peptides are great growth hormone can help with sleep. So that'll increase sleep quality. I can't say, so what I find is people report to me, they sleep better. It's not actually helping them, uh, with falling asleep if that's the problem for them, but maybe for people who have trouble staying asleep, it works pretty great. Um, but then sleep hygiene is super important, right? Like, so what I do in my home is I turn off all the lights. Um, my wife and I have set up a red light strip into our, uh, like TV console in our living room where we hang out. We don't have a TV in our bedroom. The bedroom is not used for anything other than sleep and, you know, whatever else we do in the bedroom. Um, but that's it. We do not hang out in there. It's a very strict space for rest, right? Um, so all our lights are off. We only have a red light on at night. We have this eight month old baby. I found it's been very helpful for him to, uh, get back into sleep schedules because we, we fly, her family's on the West coast. So whenever we fly and come back, his sleep, uh, structure gets a little bit messed up. And I do find that him just being in the dark, um, helps him to kind of chill out and, um, get tired. So I think sleep hygiene is super important. So the other thing is blue light, right? Um, so there's been a lot of interesting research coming out about blue light and how it's hijacking, um, your circadian rhythm. So your body is not putting out a nighttime hormones. Um, it's sapping your dopamine. That's why a lot of people are doom scrolling on Instagram because they're, they're searching for a dopamine hit, but their dopamine is actively being, uh, sapped by the, the blue light in the screen. So blue light blocking glasses, I think are helpful for a lot of people. Um, so, and then hormones, right? Like, uh, a hormone, your testosterone can help people with sleep. Now I don't look at it as like, Oh, take testosterone. It's going to help you sleep. But I do have a lot of patients who report to me, Oh, once they started, their sleep was better. Um, uh, gut inflammation is going to impact sleep because it's going to impact your neurotransmitters. Um, thyroid function is going to impact your sleep. So, you know, this was a very long winded answer to say sleep is incredibly complex. There's a lot of moving parts and I try to address the person as a whole. And usually that will result in at least some improvement of sleep. There's still people who like, it's, it's just very difficult. Uh, that's, that's very much the minority of people. I think most people will respond to any one of those things or a combination of the things that I mentioned. Yeah. You mentioned a growth hormone peptides. Uh, what's your opinion on the GH secretagogues? Do you use it just to optimize a growth hormone? I do. I do. Uh, so I like to use it. So I work with a lot of athletes. Uh, so I like to, I love using it with BPC, um, to, um, improve their recovery from an injury. Um, recently I had seen an article saying that the possible mechanism of BPC, uh, improving injuries was actually improving sensitivity to growth hormone. Now, I don't think that was proven, uh, but we know growth hormone can help with injury recovery. We know BPC helps with injury recovery. So I think naturally they go together very well, uh, regardless of what the mechanism is. Um, so, you know, and then a lot of people who are like, you know, I don't, I really don't want to get on a testosterone. I'm really worried about my fertility, but I want to improve my, um, my, my gym, like my, uh, my gains, my stamina, my recovery. Um, and I think they're great if their IGF one is lower suboptimal, I think they're really great candidates for growth hormone peptides. Um, so yeah, I'm a, I'm a big fan. Uh, you talk about, um, sermorelin, tesamorelin, things like that. Yeah. I, I, uh, sermorelin is great. Obviously it's FDA approved. Um, so that one is, uh, it's the least controversial, I guess we could say. Tesamorelin is also FDA approved. Um, I have had a few patients have some side effects from it. Nothing, nothing scary, but it's kind of made me put it like, okay, let's try something else first. And if that's not working for you, then we can go to tesamorelin, but I mean, it is the most powerful. I find it gives the most boost to the IGF one. Um, and then it does have the abdominal fat. Um, it improves or decreases your abdominal fat. So obviously it's a very, uh, wanted, um, effect for a lot of people, but it's also the priciest of the, of the growth hormones of retogog. So, um, I, I kind of like to discuss all of them and use that as like a backup unless somebody is like, no, no, I really want that one. Then. Okay, fine. But I just want them to be aware that I do find that there's more side effects with that one. Do you, do you use peptides in your practice? No, no. As a dermatologist, uh, sometimes people ask for melanotone, but I cannot recommend that in good ways. Yeah. Yeah. Um, it's, it's interesting, you know, and there's a lot of different, um, there's different quality of peptides, right? A lot of people are ordering things online, which I would definitely recommend not doing. Um, you can't, we don't know about their sterility. We don't know how much of the product they're actually putting in there. Um, we don't know how they're storing the product. Um, so I mean, that's, that's kind of a big issue over here right now, but I mean, I use a compounding pharmacy, so I feel very comfortable with the peptides that I, I offer. Yeah, sure. Um, do you also optimize other hormones like DHEA and a pregnant alone? Um, DHEA? Yes, definitely. I don't often check pregnant alone, um, because it's, I mean, it's almost half the price of my hormone panel alone. Um, but I will, I've started to do so more recently, incorporating more pregnant alone into my, um, uh, into my recommendations. Uh, DHEA, definitely. I'm a big fan of DHEA. Um, you know, it's, uh, it has mood benefits, brain benefits. It's anti-inflammatory. Obviously it's a weaker version of testosterone. So it does have some androgen effects. Uh, so I really do like to use DHEA. Yeah. Awesome. Um, yeah, I was told by other doctors before, uh, that starting from a certain age, maybe 40, 45. So for men getting older, you should, um, yeah, optimize all the hormones at once and DHEA and pregnant alone and thyroid and testosterone and so on. Um, you, you, you have the same opinion? Um, well, I'm, I'm looking at labs, right? So if, if something's optimal, my goal is to start with supplementation, you know, other than testosterone, like with thyroid, um, there's great supplements out there that'll support your thyroid function. Healing the gut will support your thyroid function. But when you're on TRT, you, I do commonly see a decrease in pregnant alone and DHEA. So it's definitely not a bad idea, uh, to monitor and have people supplement with those as well. Because if you're, when you're on testosterone, there is going to be at least somewhat of a shutdown to the HBA access, and that is going to impact your pregnant alone and DHEA. So in my opinion, it is wise, um, to evaluate, uh, and take them if you need to, which you probably will. Um, concerning fertility, if you have relative young, uh, patients, maybe 30, 35 getting on TRT, uh, what do you do for a fertility or to maintain fertility? Yeah, great question. Um, so for some people I start with in clomiphene or a clomid or in clomiphene on its own, uh, some people HCG, depending on, uh, what they're interested in. Um, and then if they want to maintain fertility while they're on TRT, then they can do either HCG or in clomiphene. And I tell them like, our goal is to just have everything operational. We're not trying to get you to actively put out testosterone. We just want your body not to forget how to do so. Uh, so that's really the goal. So, and, um, so yeah, definitely in younger men, I'm, I'm having conversations about this. I'm always bringing up fertility. Even if you're 99% sure you're never going to have another kid, that's too much. We're still, I still want to put you on something to maintain your fertility because you have the right to change your mind, right? Of course, less like anybody does. And we don't want a decision you made five or 10 years ago to be the reason that you can't have a family in the future. So to me, that's always a high priority. Um, you know, some, a lot of guys are like, I had a vasectomy. Like I, you don't need to worry about this. Okay, fine. Then we definitely don't need to worry. So then I don't worry about it too much, but yeah, my cutoff is like men under 50. We're having a very much a conversation about your fertility and where you stand on that. You, you don't get all those men on the ACG, do you? Um, I don't force anybody because of course there is a price component to that. The more things you're adding, uh, the more expensive, uh, your protocol is going to be. Um, but it's, it's very much person to person. Um, and I want them to know, like, if you want to make sure that you are able to get off testosterone and have kids again, you need to be on something to help maintain fertility. And, uh, most, I don't get too much argument on that when most people are just fine with it. All right. All right. Okay. So, uh, maybe to round this up, uh, let's get back, uh, to, to the gut, what we started with. Uh, I asked myself, where do the endocrine disrupting chemicals come in? Do they enter the bloodstream more easily in people with leaky gut? Is that the reason? Wow. That's a great question. Um, you know, I, I can't say I've looked into that specifically, but if I had to guess, I would say definitely. Um, because you know, the gut is actually outside of the body, right? The area between the mouth and the rectum is outside of us. So we really want a strong, powerful barrier to keep things out that shouldn't be now, you know, endocrine disruptors also come in this, uh, in the form of fragrances, which is a big one. So those are bypassing the GI system entirely and getting into the blood, you know, through the lungs. Um, but I would say anything that's an oral endocrine disruptor will likely cause more problems in somebody who has leaky gut and definitely somebody who doesn't eliminate properly. So, you know, I've heard, I've heard doctors say it's okay to have a bowel movement once a week. That is crazy to me. Like, no, it's not okay to have a bowel movement once a week. Like you're, you're recycling all kinds of toxins. Everything that your body is trying to get rid of, it's either going through sweat, stool, or urine and stool is going to be a big one. So we need healthy forms of elimination. So, you know, if somebody is having bowel movements once a week and they haven't had like their T3 levels checked, they they're not taking magnesium. There's so much low hanging fruit to having normal bowel function. That's very much not non-invasive and just really just nutrient, uh, repletion, not even, you know, we're going extra and above and beyond here, um, increasing your fiber intake. Um, so all, all of those things are, are super important. Elimination is super important. Um, so yeah, if you are getting endocrine disruptors, but you have healthy, um, elimination, then those are definitely going to be less of a problem for you. So not only yes, leaky gut, I would, I would hypothesize it will impact how much you're absorbing these things and then also how poorly or how efficiently you're eliminating is going to further impact how well you're absorbing these. Yeah, sure. Makes sense. Okay. Dr. Sean, thank you so much, uh, for being on, uh, and for sharing your knowledge, anything more you wanted, um, to add or advice to the viewers? Um, well, thank you so much for having me. I really enjoyed having this conversation with you. Um, you know, I would say it always comes back to sleep, diet, exercise, everything else comes after those things. Um, obviously get your hormones checked, get your labs checked for, we need to know if there's a problem to fix the problem. Right. Um, and I think too many people wait, uh, too long, you know, the sooner you go, um, the more data we have, right? Like even if you're healthy, let's just know what your normal is. You can do labs once a year, once every two years, and you can start to trend. Oh, something changed. My, my testosterone levels are starting to go down. What habit has changed? What have I created or what am I doing? That's, that's impacting this. So I think we're at a point, um, where it's never been easier to get this data. Um, you know, it's, it's not super expensive and I think it's a very worthwhile investment because if your health is good, your focus is good, your concentration is good. That's going to pay dividends in all other aspects of your life. And it starts with your health. So data is, is very helpful. Very important. Great advice. Even myself as a doctor, I only checked testosterone for the first time when I was 42 and then it was 210 nanograms per deciliter. So I checked it when I was symptomatic and low. So that was too late. I've never known my normal. Yeah. And I mean, in doctors, uh, we're the worst. I find like doctors are don't make good patients, but also our lifestyles. Like, you know, uh, I don't know what training's like in Europe, but I'm sure it's very rigorous and stressful. And, you know, residency, like there was a study that showed it takes years off of people's lives. Their DNA was shortening. Our telomeres were shortening during residency. So, you know, our hormones take a hit, our inflammation levels go crazy. Our stress hormone goes high. Um, you know, it's, it's tough, but you know, we do it cause we love it. Right. Yeah. Sure thing. Okay. Thank you so much. And talk to you next time. All right. Sounds good. Nice to meet you. All right. All right.