What do I do if my doctor tells me I need to donate blood, but I feel completely fine for over four years? Hemoglobin was at 18.7, hematocrit was 57. &gt;&gt; I mean, that's going to be up to you and how you comfortable you are standing up to your provider. I wouldn't want to joust with a provider. Um, a lot of these people are very passionate about where their stances are, even though they have no clue about this topic. They just that's just how they roll. That's that's common in medicine. It's common in life. People are dogmatic about things they've never actually studied. And so if they're cool with you doing that, if they just sort of flippantly, you know, recommend it, but then you're like, "No, I'm good. I feel fine. I don't think there's any issues." And they're like, "Okay, well, that may be fine." If they're like, "No, you have to do this." To the point where they're changing your dosing and withholding it, find another doctor. Like there's no reason for that four years heat 18s, upper 50s. That's very common with guys on TRT. And you know I just I was that guy. I had a hemat hemoglobin in the 18s and a hematocritic at 57 58. I felt fine and I I didn't have any strokes or blood clots or anything like that. Like so all these people making claims about being causitive just you're not seeing that in reality. You can you can theoretically think about that stuff all you want and say well this could mechanism. It's like no it doesn't matter. I can come up with any explanation for it but it doesn't matter if it's not true. So but back to your question with the doctors. Yeah, that's going to come down to the personality of the doctor and how comfortable you are. I mean, some people want to literally joust with their doctors and be like, "Oh, you claim that. Well, give me backup for it. Show me studies." They're not going to do that. Those doctors are not going to go look up stud. Most of them. Now, some might, if they're open-minded, they might go, "Oh, you know, that's a good point. I don't actually know that. Let me go look into it a little bit." Most won't do that. Even if they do go look into it, they won't know how to look into it. they'll just go find some abstracts and read them out and some correlative studies and and just call it as as fact. So, you you got to find the right provider if you really want it uh that's going to look deeper in these things in an open-minded way and kind of sometimes meet you in the middle on these things because it really is about that in the end. But they they have their boundaries too and that's fine. If you don't if they're set on their boundaries, it's not right for us to push try to push them over those boundaries if they're not comfortable just like guys do with me. Hey, if they're like, "No, I you need to prescribe an aromatase inhibitor." I'm like, "You need to find another doctor because that's my boundary. I am not going to do it." So, either you live without it or you do it on your own or you go find somebody. And that's okay. Like, we don't all have to agree. And I don't I don't want people paying me who don't agree with my philosophy on things, right? Like that. That's that's the beauty of the market and choices is that we there's so many different ways. So yeah, find somebody if you can who's like-minded, but if you can find somebody who's just cool and they're like they're just throwing that out there as a recommendation, but they're not being like stickler about it, that's probably fine, too. &gt;&gt; Exactly.