How easy is it to get TRT? Or maybe how can I get my doctor to prescribe me TRT? How do I get uh it in in general? &gt;&gt; Right. Yeah, it it should be easier than it is. And a lot of uh a lot of people get shut down pretty quick. So, um you know, in in um you know, in standard medicine, you go to your primary care doctor. There's a couple of things. One is sometimes they just they just don't know a lot about it. Uh, and then if they do know a lot about it, you have to, you know, have them willing be willing to actually prescribe this stuff. So, one, you have to get them to run the test in the first place. That's that's your first hurdle. So, you go to your primary care doctor. Uh, why do you want to run this test in the first place? If you're lucky, they run the test. And now you get your levels back. They look at these levels. They say, "Hey, look at this. It's in normal range." Or, "Oh, it's just below normal range. That's close enough. You're getting old. Don't worry about it." Uh the next barrier there is even if they did check a total testosterone, they probably didn't get a free testosterone. Whether that's, you know, done directly or more ideally they did it calculated by getting some other lab numbers like an SHPG um to kind of calculate that number because that number is the more important number and the one that's most correlated with symptoms and it's the number you want to see. So you could have a a normal looking total testosterone where in the meantime your free testosterone is falling in the background and probably is as your aging. It really does for for everyone as your SHPG goes up. It binds up that uh that total testosterone. So you have all these factors to get past. Um and now a lot of times the bottom line is your primary care doctor won't or can't do it and they just it's just not going to happen. Even if you do get him to do it, the chances of him giving you a good protocol are pretty terrible. I I hear from guys daily telling me about these ridiculous things where their doctors giving them some low super low dose it's not even enough to overcome their own natural low levels that they've that they've, you know, gotten to or it's an amount that's given so infrequently it's just not going to be effective. Maybe they'll feel good for a few days like they're getting a shot once every two weeks, that kind of thing. then they report back to their doctors not feeling great that you know the primary care doctor says well I guess it doesn't work for you they quit and go away. Uh so you know so the bottom line is is you know if you find someone a primary care doctor who's really into this kind of thing and knows what they're doing and interested in helping you with it might work. Uh but for the most part you're better off going to a place that specializes in this kind of thing. And there's you know there's many clinics around that do do this sort of you know do this sort of thing. That's the reason why it's become such a you know such a big thing. Um there's a big a big gap in the um you know standard medicine as far as that goes. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you you guys in the United States actually are very lucky because you have a lot of men's health clinics, TRT clinics uh here in Europe. You really have to try hard to find one. &gt;&gt; Sure. Sure. And I'll mention too, I mean, like anything else, any other business or anything else you run into in life, there's going to be varying qualities there, too. So really vet vet the place you're, you know, you're talking to. Ask ask the right questions. go in a group like yours and see what the basics are and come in as a as an informed consumer. &gt;&gt; You can avoid avoid the setbacks you get from having some bad treatment for years before you finally get it straight. So, so it's possible. It definitely takes some leg work on the, you know, by the consumer. And unfortunately, it's not as easy as just talking to your primary care doctor about it most of the time.