 Cu Cu Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok Cuadok his body wash to dry out instead of being dry. Yes, I doubt it. I doubt that's what's going on there. You know, and we just talked a little bit about thyroid. I would check out your thyroid though too. I see a lot of skin issues with some thyroid. I would want to see what your numbers look like there. You know, beyond just the TSH, you'll see what a free T3 looks like. See how that's going. Take a good look at your diet too. I see a lot of guys, maybe you noticed this too. We're pretty deficient in essential fatty acids. Not a lot of guys are eating fatty fish three, four times a week to get enough of that kind of thing. So sometimes substituting with some fish oil can go a real long way. It depends upon your environment here too, right? I'm here in Phoenix in the desert. We see people running pretty dry on top of all of it. So staying well hydrated, keeping an eye on your essential fatty acids. I think those are all important things. Take a look at your thyroid. I don't think it's the testosterone doing that though. But one should accept getting older, the skin becomes drier anyway in everyone. Especially I always tell my patients, it goes from a bottom up. It starts with your feet, your legs, everything is just getting drier. So you just make it a habit of putting on a little bit of body cream, hydration every day after the shower. Yeah. You start getting flakier, you're flakier, right? You take off your socks and there's a plume of skin cells floating around. Yeah. That's what I see in my practice every day, Mike. You gotta hold your breath. Don't inhale. Older guys or women, 80 years, they take off their pants and it's snowing everywhere. So yeah. Yeah. You know, I'm just normally getting older. So... ... ...