Stephen, so let let me ask you a question and maybe we can we can go this. So the issue that I'm still having with my patients on any it's acne and we tend to see a lot of acne on our patients. So what we do with our patients of course the cleaner you eat the better you tend to do. We try to improve their gut health. Um if we see acne we'll kind of do to decrease the peak. So we'll go three times a week micro doing daily but we have some patients no matter everything we do they still have acne. What do you do with your patients that you you see acne on TRT? Yeah I I I love to go directly to esoterinuine that's Accutane and us but I'd like to uh give very small dosing. So a micro doing um eotinoin like only 10 milligrams a day that's very well tolerated minimal side effects just maybe a bit of dry lips and after a while it takes a while to build up because uh the it's compounding the dose in your system but after a few months it gives really good effects on acne and especially if you go up to 100 to 150 milligrams per kilogram of body um you tend to get off uh your acne for always. So after this accumulated dose 100 150 milligrams per kilogram uh you can just stop it and um yeah be forever without your acne. So I see that in a lot of patients if they are on TRT or not. Sometimes I I get men from 40 years old still with cistic acne and even with micro doing esoterin but that can take up to one year and a half two years at that dose but eventually they're uh can they can stop. Amazing. Yes, that that's what I've done with some of my patients. you know there's a fear of Accutane because of the liver toxicity but at the low do like you said we monitor the levels I haven't seen any liver toxicity so I didn't know that micro doing so 10 milligram a day and you give it time yeah you just give it time to build it up up to 100 150 milligrams per kilogram of body weight so that can take up to 18 24 months at that dose but hey after a few weeks it will already start to get better And as you say, toxicity it's just dose dependent. It's like having alcohol beverages. If you take just one a week, it's no problem. If you have four each day, uh that will hurt your liver as well. So at 10 milligrams, even if you do blood exams once in a while, you never see any liver changes in the enzymes of our liver. Very good. What about the use of antibiotics like doxycyc? Usually what I do, I'll do a course of doxycyc first and a lot of patients improve with this. And if they don't then I'll do the yakutane. Tell me about your use of of antibiotics with acne patients. Yeah, the problem with antibiotics is always the same in most men and women and teenagers. They work, but as soon as you stop, the acne comes back. So I I've seen young adults telling me, "Oh, I've been on my orthroycline, whatever. I've been taking them for five years and I can't stop because when I stop everything comes back. It's much healthier to do one year of micro doing esoterinino than five years of minocy. So the antibiotics they work fine sometimes quicker and without any side effects but you can't get off them. It will all just come back the acne. Wow amazing pearls. Thank you Stephen. Do you ever combine them maybe to do the minocycine for a little bit to kind of get it to go away quickly? No, it's it's contraindicated the the cichlines. So the the antibiotics that are most indicated for acne, you cannot combine them with the retinoids likeinoine because there's a rare side effect when you combine these um intra cranial hypertension. That's one risk if you combine those. So it's a no-go. Very good. So it seems what's the usual typical dose of acute of the tininoine because 10 milligram is micro dose. What's the usual dose that I see they use usually? Oh, you you can go up to your body weight in kilograms. So if you weigh 70 kilos, you can titrate up to 70 milligrams a day. But that's very heavy on the liver, on the lips, dry skin everywhere. So um if we do a good dose and you want it if you have if you have um a good young liver you you don't take any other medications you don't drink alcohol at all I sometimes give people half of their body weight like 60 no 30 40 milligrams that's just a normal dose and with that dose you will get up to your accumulated um 100 150 in six months time and then you can stop amazing and then maybe the 10 milligram if you're even more worried but you stay micro dose but long term. Yeah. Yeah. Perfect man. This is look at this. This is this is the dermatologist. Well, who else can give such great advice? I will bring that back to my patients. Thank you. Yeah. Sure. Sure. I I have over Yeah. 22 years of um clinical practice now. So I've been doing this every day for the last two decades. Yes. Yes. Yes. Are there any acne washes that you like? any of the benzoxil preparation. Yeah, we have a lot of salicylic acid, benzoic acid type containing uh cleansers, those standard things. But once once you get on isotriinoin, you don't have to use those anymore because they will dry out your skin even more. So you just wash yourself with a very gentle wash once on retinoids. But if you don't take or but if you are not taking retinoids just antibiotics oral antibiotics for example then you try to dry out your sibic skin with one of those washes salicylic acid benzoic acid there are others. Perfect. Thank you Stephen. You're welcome, Frzy.