Is there any specific diet that you recommend for people especially on TRT? Something like keto diet or carnivore? Is there something you prefer? >> Sure. Sure. No, it's a great question. I I could go you you might have to stop me here. I can go about on about this for for the whole the whole show. Um yeah, so I think there's there's a few a few general diet, you know, diet things here and then the rest you kind of fill in for your preference. Um, I like to see everyone uh get a gram somewhere around a gram per pound of body weight or ideal or ideal healthy body weight, right? So, if you have a lot of fat to lose and you're 300 lbs, maybe you don't actually need 300 grams. Maybe, you know, maybe 200 is your number. So, get get that in protein per day. I think that's I think that's a very important thing. Um, you know, we talked about, you know, fats earlier. So, I think making sure you're getting some essential fatty acids. You know, if you need to supplement that, great. Um, but as far as fats go, you know, somewhere around like.3 to point 6 grams per pound of body weight just for general health and digestion and good, you know, good functioning, I think that's kind of the, you know, the minimum amount of fat you should be getting. And then you fill in the rest with carbs, right? Carbs aren't the devil. They're not evil. They're, you know, their body's pref preferred fuel source. Um, especially for someone who's, you know, exercising hard and wants to perform. I know someone will, you know, someone will comment and say, "I know a guy who's an ultramarathoner or an elite powerlifter and he's, you know, he's keto." That's great. You know, it can it can work for some folks, but in general, that's a that's a pretty a pretty good way to do it. Um, but if you have a preference towards eating a little bit, you know, some some some fattier foods, I think, as long as you're hitting your caloric goal, um, and you're meeting your protein requirements, the rest of it is is is, um, is negotiable. Things like keto or carnivore, um, it it can be tricky. It can be tricky. they can skew some, you know, some other health markers. Some people it doesn't affect them at all. But I think, you know, don't don't, you know, don't fool yourself. I think it's some, uh, you know, some magical thing to do. Um, something like a carnivore diet, I think, can be a nice thing as a uh as a base for an elimination diet. And some people need a gut reset. We take in a lot of stuff. Even if you think you're eating healthy good stuff, there's all these additives and artificial sweeteners and all this junk out there. If you just want to give your gut a good reset, give yourself, you know, three months of just eating, you know, meat and water and then, you know, maybe you don't eat like that forever, but that that'll change you. That'll fix your gut and get you get you feeling pretty good. >> Um, you know, but as far as, you know, order of importance of things. I mean, it's the, you know, the amount of calories you're eating per day to meet your goal, whether that's maintenance, right? So, you're eating isocoric, you're not trying to gain or lose weight, right? Uh, if you want to be in a, you know, you want to lose fat, you're going to need to be in a deficit, whatever that amount is. If you want to gain some muscle, you probably had to be in a little bit of a of a surplus. You know, if you're a new beginner, you could probably make those same gains at maintenance for for a period of time. And then the next, you know, the next thing on the priority list is meeting that uh you know, meeting that protein goal. The rest the rest is negotiable. >> Yeah, sure. I agree. I've always uh been a proponent of flexible dieting. So, you just >> Sure. >> eat what you want. Everything uh Yeah. can be good if as long as if it's not too much processed food. Try to avoid that all additives and colorants and so on. But uh yeah, just try to eat healthy within your caloric uh restrictions, your protein, your healthy fats. Completely agree, Mike. That's what I do. >> Yeah, you do that. You do that 80% of the time and you're doing better than 90% of the world. So, >> yeah, >> that extra bit of time, give yourself a break. It's fine, right? Someone's birthday and you want a piece of cake or something, have the cake. It's okay. Oh, yeah. It's easier than being too strict and then fall off the boat. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. That's what I see a lot with people who go with something like a like a keto diet. They think this is the end all be all and then they fall off their wagon and what do they what do they have? >> Exactly. >> Or they start finding keto treats and now they're back up to being, you know, eating too many calories anyway and the whole plan falls apart. So, >> yeah. Hey, hey, hey.