I'm on TRT and HCG. Should I take Nulvidex or Tamoxifen for gynecomastia? I've already done surgery for Janikcomia before. So, questions like this are basically like, you know, do I want you to punch me or kick me in the face? Um, neither. Um, so it's a closed question, but the answer is is is neither. So if you've had gynecomastia surgery previously and you're still getting gynecomastia growth on TRT, it generally means one of the following if not both. Is that one the surgery was not done properly and they didn't remove the entire gland. I I've heard surgeons often say, "Oh, you can't remove the entire gland." Maybe they can't, but other surgeons can. That's it's called a skill issue. But I've heard other surgeons say, "Oh, well, if you remove the whole gland, the nipple will cave in." There's two massive flaws to this. One, men who don't have gyno, don't have caved in nipples. This is what happens to women. But number two, I'd rather have does any man care if their nipple is caved in? Like really, no one cares. We just don't want gyno. So that's not a problem. It's it's it's a skill issue. So you need to find a surgeon who will take the whole thing out. But with that said, this is typically a problem that guys have when they're abusing steroids because on TRT typically if gyno becomes present, it's flaring up gynecomastia that was there already from when they were hypogonatal. This is when gynecomastia occurs when you have low levels of androgens. You high levels of androgens within the physiological range don't cause men to grow female mammorary glands. It's just not how biology works. So, if you're in a situation where you've had the majority of the gina removed and you're on TRT and it keeps coming back, there's something wrong with the overall health or the protocol. And something that often causes this is guys are using, you know, higher doses of TRT and they might not be injecting it often enough, but they've got underlying issues that are leading to elevated levels of prolactin and estrogen together, which is typically, and again, this is not saying you need to use an AI or you need to use these medications. It's typically an issue with liver problems, too much alcohol, or insulin resistance. So if you're in a situation where you're highly insulin resistant and you're taking a large amount of testosterone and you're prone to gynecomastia, then that can continue the growth of gyno because you're putting a very large amount of testosterone into an environment that wouldn't usually have it and it's like pouring gasoline on a fire that you've only partially put out. So I would be getting comprehensive blood work done with someone who knows how to assess for these things. Hypothyroidism can also be a factor that can impact it a little bit, but it would have to be pretty severe, but I would be looking at alternate routes. Both tmoxifen and Clomid cause uh non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Um they also make you that both of them will make you feel terrible and if you took them in a dose high enough to prevent gynecomastia growth, you would solve one problem but probably create 10 more in the process. So, I would uh take a left when you're taking a right