In this video I’m going to tell you exactly How To Reduce Injection Pain. As a weight lifting dermatologist, performing all kinds of injections on a daily basis, and experienced with hormone replacement therapy, I will share with you some tips and tricks on How To Reduce post injection pain or PIP. Stay tuned! Please like and subscribe. Thank you! And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. Luckily I can tell you right away that most reactions to TRT injections will be temporary. Maybe you’re watching this video because you are experiencing injection problems now at this very moment, but I can reassure you that more than 99% of injection reactions and pain do not cause serious long-term problems. However, if any doubt, go find yourself a medical doctor that can help you out. This is only general advise, and without studying the skin up close, it is impossible to give any personalized advice. It is very important to make a distinction between an infection and purely inflammation and pain. Signs of infection are -next to redness, swelling and pain- systemic reactions like fever and/or the presence of pus at the injection site. This can be under the form of a pustule or an abscess. In case of an infection, you really need to go see a doctor to get a prescription of local and/or systemic antibiotics. Sometimes an abscess needs to be drained by a doctor. If there is only inflammation, under the form of redness, swelling, pain, and the feeling of a hard subcutaneous nodule or lump, then the following actions can be taken. You can be conservative, and just wait it out. As said before, in most cases the reactions will be temporary. The inflammation reaches its maximum after one to two days, and then slowly fades down. The whole process can take up to 2 weeks. Sometimes a painless subcutaneous lump can still be palpitated months after the injection. Next, cold is recommended in the first 48hours of appearance of the skin reaction. It is especially helpful to reduce swelling and control pain. Ice is most effective when it is applied early and often for the first 48 hours. Local application of creams, containing anti-inflammatory cortisone can be very helpful. Check out the video in this card if you want to learn more about the different kinds of cortison cream and which type is best for this very purpose. Systemically, an over the counter antihistamine drug, like for example Cetirizine or Loratadine, can help with the swelling, a painkiller type paracetamol or aspirin (if you’re not allergic to it) can of course help with the pain, and a Non Steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, like for example diclofenac or ibuprofen, can be useful to fight the pain, the swelling and the redness. Remember these drugs are more than just pain relievers. They also help to reduce the inflammation and they lower fevers. Some subcutaneous nodules or lumps can remain for several weeks, and sometimes even months. They are mostly seen when doing subcutaneous injections or when there is a leakage out of the muscle after doing an intra-muscular injection. These lumps do not require any treatment once the pain is gone. They gradually will decrease. You know, I made another video about this, go and click on this thumbnail to watch it right now. I hope you found this info useful, and if you have any more questions, or simply want to share your experiences, go ahead and leave them in the comments. I try to answer every comment every day.