How Do You Know You Have Low Testosterone? Take this low testosterone test! This video is for men only! Sorry ladies! I introduce to you: the Quantitative ADAM Questionnaire. Please like and subscribe. Thank you! And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. First we’ll start with the “normal” Non-Quantitative ADAM Questionnaire. ADAM stands for Androgen Deficiency in Aging Males, and the questionnaire consists of 10 questions that help determine if a male patient suffers from androgen deficiency (low testosterone) and whether or not further testing and follow-up are needed. Let’s start: (1) Do you have a decrease in libido (sex drive)? Yes or No (2) Do you have a lack of energy? (3) Do you have a decrease in strength and/or endurance? (4) Have you lost height? (5) Have you noticed a decreased "enjoyment of life"? (6) Are you sad and/or grumpy? (7) Are your erections less strong? (8) Have you noticed a recent deterioration in your ability to play sports? (9) Are you falling asleep after dinner? (10) Has there been a recent deterioration in your work performance? Now count the number of ‘yes’-answers. A positive questionnaire result is defined as a “yes” to questions 1 or 7 (about the libido, and about the less strong erections), or any 3 other questions, meaning testosterone deficiency (low testosterone) is likely. Consult your physician for additional testing and possible treatment options. And now, the more novel screening tool, the quantitative Androgen Deficiency in the Aging Male (qADAM) questionnaire. It is successful in quantifying the severity of androgen deficiency and research has found that there is a statistically significant correlation to serum testosterone, as shown on this graph. Since this questionnaire is quantitative, it allows to more accurately screen for earlier unrecognized androgen deficiency, as well as monitor a patient’s response to treatment. The qADAM provides results that may be quantified and, thus, more easily followed over time. All questions are weighted equally. The summation of these responses yield a total qADAM score between 10 and 50, with 10 being the most symptomatic and 50 being the least symptomatic. So now, score your answers to the same questions: (1) How would you rate your libido (sex drive)? (2) How would you rate your energy level? (3) How would you rate your strength and endurance? (4) How much height have you lost? (5) How would you rate your enjoyment of life? (6) How would you rate your happiness level? (7) How strong are your erections? (8) How would you rate your sports ability over the past 4 weeks? (9) How often do you fall asleep after dinner? (10) How would you rate your work performance It’s easy to do this short test for yourself, note the score. You can do that before treatment, after start of TRT, and later on to keep track of your progress. Check your blood testosterone levels around the same moments, and try to relate your score to the serum testosterone. Hi, let me know your qADAM score right now, under this video. Okay? I want to thank all the guys in our Facebook Group “TRT and Hormone Optimization Therapy HOT”, that helped me out with this list of questions, especially dr. Merrill Matschke, and especially concerning the question about falling asleep after dinner. If you found this video interesting, do this: go and watch this video next explaining more details about the 10 signs of low testosterone in men.