How To Start TRT? If you have asked yourself that exact question, and if you're wondering if TRT is something for you, you have come to the right video. Keep watching! Please like and subscribe. Thank you! And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. Do I need TRT? Where to start? Believe me, I know how you feel. I have asked myself those exact questions a few years ago. And not only have I gotten all the answers to those questions, I got myself fully optimized, educated in hormone optimization therapy, and I surrounded myself on this very channel with all the best doctors in the world concerning hormone optimization. And I am so thankful for all the info I got that I want to share all of this with you guys here. So, okay, let’s get right into it. First, if you came to this video, you are probably experiencing some symptoms that could be those of low testosterone. I made several videos about the low T symptoms. I will link 2 of those under this video: one is called “10 signs of low testosterone in men”, the other one is a test you can do to get a score about your low T symptoms. Maybe you want to listen to the typical story of someone starting off on TRT: I will also link to the video in which Danny Bossa tells his story, called “Things to know before starting Testosterone Replacement Therapy”. Then you might be wondering what kinds of delivery methods are there, how do I find a doctor that can prescribe me TRT, what are the mistakes I should avoid, what is the best TRT dosage, how long does TRT take to work, and many more typical questions. I will link to all the videos I made about these specific questions in the description below. Of course, personalized help you will only get from a doctor, but beware: not all doctors are educated in this matter! Even worse: most doctors are not educated in this matter! What more can you do to make sure you get the best help you need? Join our closed (and free!) Facebook group “TRT and Hormone Optimization Therapy HOT”, where all the top-of-the-spear hormone optimization doctors are as well, ready to help you out with further questions. Thanks for watching, and make sure to go and watch one of the videos I linked in the description below.