 Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky Sky optimization, weight loss. We have an aesthetic side as well, but our bread and butter is going to be hormone optimization. And then we sprinkle weight loss metabolic health in there as well. Why exactly did you become so interested in HRT and TRT? Yeah, it started. I was just men's health only a couple of years ago. I've been doing it for a little over three and a half years and I was men's health only. And then it kind of branched into the GLP-1s started becoming a little bit more popular and I started using them for the guy patients. I had their wives. I had them on GLP-1s. They're doing really well. And then I kind of got to where I really wanted some, I was missing a piece and it was really the female hormone optimization part. And so we kind of started doing a lot of female hormone training and education and learning a lot by that. So we implemented that. And so just kind of to overall take care of, you know, couples and the entire person as a female, not just focus on weight loss, but to where it all started from. My main background is emergency medicine. So I was in the emergency department for about 10 years. And, you know, it's funny. I talk with a lot of clinic owners and people in the space and a lot of them seem to move from the emergency department to this. And so I don't know if it just naturally gravitates to where, you know, in the emergency department, you see them 10 years after they needed to make changes and, you know, and so now I'm hoping to, I'm hoping to prevent that ER visit in 10 years, whether it's from a heart attack, a broken hip, you know, hormones have incredible health and metabolic parameters that help keep people's hearts healthy, keeps their bones healthy. And so I think it mainly just came to be, I just didn't want to be the sickly, frail patient in the ER that I was having to take care of. And so I think that's kind of how it really stemmed. And now it's just awesome keeping happy people happy, healthy, and as optimal as possible. Awesome. What are your typical clients like? Are they overweight? Are they already 40, 45 and older? Or are they a diverse population? Yeah, we kind of see a mixture of everybody. I really, whenever I started as men's health only, I thought my population was really going to be about 50 to 70. Because I was mainly focusing on testosterone. And I wasn't really expecting to see the amount of low testosterone guys as I see. And even once we started taking care of women and everything, they have kind of hormonal derangement earlier and earlier as well. So I would say, typically, probably 30 to 70. And then women, we do a lot of postmenopause hormone optimization as well. So they're kind of older guys, of course, have, I mean, just any age can really benefit from testosterone. The younger ones are the harder ones to manage to, you know, just right off the bat, in terms of their fertility. And if they're a female of childbearing age, make sure we're not doing anything that could harm a baby. But for the most part, our population, clientele is, I mean, across all ages. Right. I can tell from the views on the videos we make, that a lot of men especially are interested in TRT add-ons. So what can we do extra on top of our TRT to feel even better to optimize our health even better, maybe to lose weight or to make sure we live a qualitative lifestyle? So you're also doing peptides, you told me. Yeah. So I'll give kind of the unsexy answer at first, you know, first, I really want people, you know, to do the lifestyle stuff first. I know that's boring, you know, just kind of get a sigh, like, no, I just want to hear the cool stuff. But if you're not, you know, prioritizing your sleep, if you don't have a good exercise regimen, if you're not watching, you know, your nutrition, you know, eat like an adult, and, you know, you're not in control of your mental health, and, you know, your hormones prior to peptides and everything are out of whack, you're just not going to get much out of them. So we kind of first want to address the lifestyle things. And then, of course, with guys, testosterone fixes a lot of the stuff, the low energy drive, motivation, clears up brain fog, helps libido, helps improve muscle gain, muscle recover, all that stuff. And then all the other lifestyle factors only get more out of it. But on top of that, say we do have a decent testosterone level, they are working on their lifestyle, you know, add-ons first, I'll throw in thyroid, make sure, you know, vitamin D, that kind of stuff is good as well. And then say they are pulling all the big leverage, you know, they're sleeping well, they're working out four or five days a week, and they just kind of looking for an extra edge, then I do, I will bring on peptides. And I mean, we just had the conversation before, you know, the peptides from a legitimate compounding pharmacy can get pretty expensive pretty quick. So I don't want them to be wasting their money and feel that they're not getting much out of them. So we just kind of have the conversation, you know, if you don't have a good workout regimen, if you're not sleeping, and trying to recover appropriately, you're not hitting your nutrition goals. And I just, I don't want them to be bad at me, because they're not getting what they wanted out of them. But there are a few that have good results. I mean, the main ones that I use for Moreland, CJC-1295, Ipamoreland, Tessamoreland are probably the top ones that I use. I like Tessamoreland, one that has great visceral fat mobilization, and it actually has a lot of human studies. You know, there are tons of peptides these days, and they're all pretty good. But really, the Tessamoreland, Cermoreland have FDA equivalents. And so they have human data for us to kind of base off treatments and see what people have done good and bad. So those are the main ones that I do. Tessamoreland typically helps visceral fat the most. CJC-1295 and Ipamoreland, the combo works really well, and kind of touching all of the benefits. And then Cermoreland, I would say kind of the daily driver, in a sense, it's mild across the board, helps kind of across the board. But typically more fat loss with Tessamoreland, typically a little better sleep muscle recovery with CJC-1295 at Ipamoreland. And I'll say the top two benefits are going to be sleep and muscle recovery. And those are the ones that you'll see a little faster. There are benefits, especially muscle building and fat loss, but they got to be doing the big levers to make sure they're maximizing those. And that's going to be with continued use and, you know, decent training regimen, decent nutrition. And that's where they'll really get the benefits of the extra fat loss and extra muscle building. But nobody's going to get huge muscle gains just off peptides alone, especially if they're not eating, especially if they don't sleep, they're just not going to get the benefits that they're wanting to. I mean, social media hypes them up like they're just amazing. And they are really cool and they're good, but they're kind of more truthfully on the tail end. I want all the other lifestyle metrics in place. I want testosterone, thyroid, those kind of being optimized and worked on if they're not. And then we bring in the peptides for the performance and everything. And they do have better sense of well-being. You do feel a little better on them day to day. And then with continued use, you can kind of get some of the anti-aging benefits, the hair, skin, and nails and everything. So they do have a use. I just want to make sure we're hitting all the big levers prior to really bringing them on. Yeah, sure thing. So those GH secretic oaks, do you give them in a kind of cycle for a certain amount of time? Do you have to post them and restart or is that just continuously for life? Yeah. And I kind of let it just help people want to use them in a sense. Like eGrifta is the brand name of Tessmoreland and that's two grams every night. And those patients that are actually using it for HIV lipodystrophy do fine. And but for the most part, I'm kind of with the traditional peptide world on the five on two off. And then, and they, even then they say with that, you can use continuously for the most part, if they're doing it six months in a row, just say, Hey, chill a month and we'll bring it back. Um, I do like them at night. I do like them 60 minutes after their last calorie intake, uh, just to get the best out of them. I mean, you're still going to get some benefit if you're not a hundred percent fasted, but just that little bit of ghrelin release is going to get a little bit more of a GH pulse overnight. And that's kind of how they're working is they're just getting your pituitary to pulse growth hormone a couple more times. And I like that in a, in a, they still allow for the somatostatin break, meaning they just don't allow for unregulated growth hormone to go throughout the body. They have kind of somatostatin to where it's still going to keep you within physiologic parameters, but you can maximize it. You know, essentially if you only pulse growth hormone one to three times a night, these can help you get three to five or six or wherever you were back in your more youthful years. And so, um, really to answer the question, I'm a typical five, five days on or five nights on two days off and then for six months and then a month off or so. But the typical dose for a TRT user is not a two grams every evening, isn't it? You know, I've had a success just doing 500 mics or a gram, uh, nightly and two grams seems like, or two milligrams seems like a lot. Um, but they do it and they don't have any incidents of, you know, cancer and that kind of stuff. And so that's something I was looking into a lot of, you know, it's like, okay, if we're improving growth hormone, are we going to be potentially worsening growth hormone dependent cancers? And it seems like it, you know, it just improves overall, you know, hormonal milieu. And so you just, uh, function better and we still get, make sure they're getting their appropriate cancer screenings, you know, colonoscopies, PSAs, um, pat smears, et cetera, and making sure they're up to date on all that. Um, but I'm not seeing it, you know, pop up cancers and even guys with like acromegaly or the pituitary tumors that secrete growth hormone their entire life, you know, they will get a little bit more, but even guys, I mean, luckily bodybuilders have a skewed data set to where they use high doses continuously and they're not dropping dead of cancers and stuff. So yeah, exactly. They seem very safe. Do you use any other supplements or add-ons for sleep, especially like, uh, melatonin? Yeah. I mean, sleep is something that, uh, comes up about with every guy, you know, some sleep really well, but, uh, yeah, I like melatonin, even high dose melatonin. I'm not scared of 10, 20 milligrams. I like the sustained release if, uh, you get it from a compounding pharmacy. Other ones, I mean, good old magnesium is probably my favorite though. Magnesium glycinate and or threonate. Um, it helps with sleep latency, helps induce deep sleep, adding some glycine in there may help. 5-HT get it, 5-HTP and GABA have a little bit of use. Um, I'm not opposed of prescription trazodone as it's non-habit forming and continues to allow appropriate sleep architecture if they need, just because I think sleep is so important in these guys. And it's our first thing that can be, you know, quote unquote slept on, you know, with our busy lives and everything. Um, it's easy to just be like, ah, I'm only going to do five to six hours because I feel good enough to get through it whenever they're, they are sacrificing. If it is body composition, you know, muscle building, muscle recovery, um, that's sleep is when muscle, you gain your muscle. That's when you recover. That's when you form memories. So we want to try and maximize as much sleep quality sleep as we can get. What are the typical symptoms that are hardest to tackle with testosterone or TRT? Um, what are some things, uh, even if all levels are optimized, uh, men still struggle with, is that a libido or, um, um, yeah, difficult, uh, uh, lack of energy of difficulties, uh, sleeping still? Yeah. I would say the top two would be energy and libido. You know, it's like we get a guy up and, uh, they still have, uh, their testosterone levels are good, right? Where I want them. I, you know, consider them optimal that they're in their compliance and there's, their libido is still not where they want it to be. And libido is so multifactorial that it is tough to chase. And especially if they're chasing a libido. And one of the things you got to ask is like, I mean, what are your expectations? Where do you want to get to, you know? And if, if it's unreasonable, then it's like, you know, you're a working adult, you know, like it's hard to want to force, you know, extra sessions in a week. If you're, if you're wanting to go twice a day or, you know, something that's like that. But, you know, if you're just trying to get back to what you think is healthy for you and your partner and you're not there, then, uh, then we do kind of a deeper dive in like, how much alcohol are you drinking? Are you getting your sleep in? Is there relationship turmoil? Is work or kids, uh, causing a lot of stress? Do you have time to even have intercourse? If you, you know, everybody is so busy these days, you know, you have to plan it, you know, some people you do have to plan it, you know? And so is that what's holding you back? And then in terms of energy, it's kind of the same thing. Um, a lot of times libido is going to fall energy, you know, because if your stress is managed and you feel good and everything, then yeah, you're going to have a higher libido in, uh, hopefully energy follows, but energy is kind of the same, uh, on the caveat that sometimes I'll be able to add in thyroid optimization. Um, sometimes even just a little DHEA if their levels are low and they have other, um, symptoms that may be consistent with low DHEA. Sometimes adding that can kind of fill the gap that it's typically not super profound, that I've found, you know, but I do think it touch, it helps touch a little bit in terms of both energy, libido and brain fog. Um, especially if their levels are lower on the lower end. Do you also look into, uh, optimizing, uh, DHEA and pregnenolone in the old man? Yeah. And we follow it in women too. Um, and mainly DHEA, pregnenolone, I, I haven't found a good lab test that's cost effective enough. And so I'll bring it in and get them to trial it, especially in guys or gals that are like, um, you know, PTSD, military first responders, that kind of stuff. They may, uh, really benefit from it. And guys, the pregnenolone turns into allopregnenolone and it does with females too, but females seem to get a better response from progesterone. But, um, the pregnenolone, allopregnenolone guys can get a lot of the same benefits that progesterone doesn't women in terms of like the calming, the relaxing helps with anxiety the next day, maybe improve sleep. And, just the lab tests that I've tried to follow on a couple are just, it's expensive and I just don't think it's very well. So, um, I haven't gotten a, uh, good cost effective way to follow pregnenolone like I do DHEA sulfate levels. What's your typical list of supplements you recommend to all, uh, men and women? Yeah. And supplements are kind of like at the end of the thing as well. I want to really do lifestyle and hormone optimization and then supplements to fill in the gaps where we need. I do think high dose fish oil plays a good role in just kind of brain health, joint health, total body inflammation. I think men and women both do well with creatine. So I like creatine in the majority of my patients. Um, magnesium, most everybody is low and it's hard to get good magnesium and, uh, a diet. So I do think mag glycinate, mag threonate, those are my favorite. Uh, if I take, take them at night, I dream, I have cool dreams at night. And so I enjoy taking it at night, relaxes me, gets a little deeper sleep. Um, and then protein supplementation as well to make sure they're getting close to one gram per pound of goal body weight is in that, and that most people are vitamin D deficient. And so we'll follow that on the lab if they are, but I try not to just hand a grab bag of supplements. Really. I want to just make sure we can get lifestyle under control, hormone optimization where it is, and then fill in the gaps with supplements if needed. Mm-hmm. Sure. All right. So, uh, maybe let's switch, uh, to the women, uh, for a moment, because for me personally, I think that's a even more difficult area, uh, the HRT and women, because we have the progesterone and the estrogen, uh, next to the testosterone, DHEA, pregnenolone, it's a difficult mix. They have their periods and pregnancies and menopause. So, um, that's, uh, uh, a difficult thing. Even for me, uh, I still, uh, struggle, uh, listening to patients, uh, talking about their menopausal, um, yeah, symptoms and, uh, what, what the gynecologist recommends them, what the GP recommends them is still different from what the endocrinologist will tell them. So, uh, what, what, what's your standpoint in general, uh, on the HRT for, uh, women? Yeah. I mean, women are magical creatures for sure. Um, but overall the medical community has just done such a disservice to women, especially since the WHI, the women's health initiative that made it to where it was scary for everybody to want to recommend even HRT to women at all. And so, you know, for 20 years, it's been heavily scrutinized to where nobody wants to do it. If you think you're going to do it, then you're going to have strokes and, uh, breast cancer and you need to get off of it as quick as you can. However, I mean, if you're backing up and you go to the women's health initiative and they used conjugated equine estrogen and, um, a droxy progesterone acetate, that's not what we use in hormone, uh, optimization for women. We use the bioidentical estradiol micronized progesterone. And whenever you're, you know, they spent a billion dollars on that study and use these compounds that are synthetic and they're just not even what we make in our own. They're not the bioidentical ones. And so I wish we could undo it and go back and use estradiol and micronized progesterone, but I think that's what they had most available at the time. Anyways, uh, disservice to millions of women. And whenever you use bioidentical estradiol and micronized progesterone, they have amazing results without the increase in breast cancer. They get better cardiovascular protection from the estradiol. Their bone health improves, you know, with the micronized progesterone, they sleep much better. Their anxiety is better control. You know, their cycles regulate and if they're still cycling, but menopausal, it's easy because they don't have anything. And so, you know, 50% of the population is going to go through menopause and a hundred percent of women will, if they live long enough. And so this is something that affects everybody, men and women both. And I mean, most of the divorce rate starts about 40, whenever women are starting to go through perimenopause, I think it's crucial to the population at, as a whole to, um, get this, get these on board early and follow women and try and keep them, um, as happy and healthy as possible. And it also limits all the negative stuff postmenopausal later that can happen. So like in the emergency department, I almost never see a cycling woman with a heart attack, you know, activating the cath lab for them. The estradiol is protective. I'm not going to say it never happens. There's always outliers in medicine, but estradiol is very protective. Another reason why, I mean, in your channel specifically too, those they're just hounding, do not block estradiol, which is amazing. That needs to be screamed from the rooftops forever until everybody knows. But you know, in guys, it's going to, you know, estradiol helps, you know, heart health, bone health, erections, brain health. And so you don't ever want to block it because in a postmenopausal women, once they lose all their estrogen, now they have a much worse cardiovascular risk. Now they're much more prone to osteoporosis. You know, they get, they can get bachelor atrophy, which turns into, um, they can get recurrent urinary tract infections, which can be difficult to treat. All that is prevented with hormones. You know, sometimes I still need local vaginal estrogen and I never went to, if anybody, no woman should be denied vaginal estrogen, even if they've had cancer, they smoke, anything like that, because, um, it helps restore those issues. I mean, vaginal estrogen, even if you put it on the back of your hand or your face, uh, helps with wrinkles and youthful appearance. So long story short, um, HRT for women is extremely powerful. And I think almost all women benefit from it and everybody like the WHI didn't even touch on testosterone and in women and women do incredibly well with testosterone. I mean, obviously it's much more lower doses, it's controlled and, um, they do so well in terms of, you know, just executive function, their confidence, their libido. And so they do really well with it. Um, and that is something that is very low in women as well. Just how we're seeing in guys, younger and younger guys, women are having almost undetectable testosterone levels and even the ones, and then sometimes I know your channel talks about SHBG as well. So SHBG will bind up all the testosterone. If they've ever been on synthetic birth control, which a lot of women have, they can get permanently high SHBG. And so even if their testosterone is normal for a female, it's still going to be undetectable from a free testosterone standpoint. And so a lot of these women, um, do really well on testosterone appropriately monitored, monitored testosterone replacement, and they don't grow penises or grow beard or anything. It just, it helps them, um, build their body better. It helps carry their body better because they feel more confident in themselves. And then now they're starting to do more resistance training. You know, I'm trying to get, we're trying to get women away from the nothing tastes as good as skinny feels, you know, and just eat as little as possible. The special K diets, we were trying to push for the strong over skinny woman, and that's going to further help their muscle mass, their bone mineral density, you know, they're going to feel better. And then it will hopefully help take some of that psychological fear away from just the number on the scale because, um, they can get more muscle and be much more confident in their body than if it was, you know, they're just tiny trying to be as frail as possible. And so, um, all that to really say is just HRT is very powerful in women and I hope it becomes more mainstream just so women can really get the benefits they need from it. Yeah. And maybe let's talk a little bit more, uh, in a practical way, uh, for women, menopause is when, uh, estrogen crashes. Um, but much earlier, um, like testosterone, progesterone already starts to decline rather early, I guess, 35, uh, 40, uh, ish already. So, uh, what's the first thing, um, one should look for, uh, should we measure, uh, progesterone regularly starting from, starting from 35 and, uh, already, um, give a little bit of progesterone early on? Yeah. Progesterone is magical in women and it is kind of all over the place in a sense. And I think more and more women are getting just essentially progesterone deficient. You know, sometimes progesterone is so impactful in women. It's probably close to how testosterone is in guys. You know, if the progesterone's off, their cycles are going to be off. They're going to, they can have more painful periods. They don't sleep throughout the night, their anxiety worsens. And then a lot of female ailments, PCOS, endometriosis, a lot of that stuff can be improved with progesterone. And so, but monitoring the levels is kind of tough, uh, because, you know, you have higher progesterone in the first half of the cycle, then it goes down. And, uh, so it's kind of all over. So you, you, if you want to be meticulous, you follow the progesterone levels and then based off where they are in your cycle. Um, for the most part, we use it just kind of like how we do a lot of our hormone replacement is just symptom management. If they have symptoms of low progesterone, uh, difficulty sleeping, period irregularities, um, that kind of stuff, then we'll bring on progesterone. Um, sometimes we cycle it. Sometimes it's continuous, depends on, uh, the individual lady. And then menopause, we're typically keeping it on, uh, continuously and we're not cycling it, but we do cycle in some as well. Uh, but to kind of answer your question, uh, monitoring it has some utility, but we'll, we'll most likely just go off of symptoms in regards to progesterone. Yeah. Agree. What's the best administration route for progesterone? I mean, we love the oral to purposely get the first pass through the liver to get the allopregnenolone to help get the GABA improvements in the brain. So it helps with sleep. It helps with anxiety the next day. Um, you know, sometimes they need a little bit of extra. And so you will want to avoid that specifically. There are others like, you know, trochies or troche or vaginal progesterone, uh, that kind of stuff to where they won't be as drowsy if you need extra during the day. And, but I would say for the vast majority, we try and purposely do oral to purposely get the first pass effect, um, to purposely get the drowsiness, the tiredness and the anxiety improvements from the allopregnenolone from it. So, and they take that before bed, I guess. Yep. Most of them at night. Mm. All right. So, and then, um, okay. They, they, they keep on taking the progesterone, uh, just up till the moment of, uh, the, the menopause and then the estrogen, uh, crashes. Uh, what, what, what's up next? Uh, estrogen, what dose, what administration route? Yeah. And it's kinda, um, yeah, estrogen there at the track, it's hard to bring in estrogen if they're still cycling, but sometimes late perimenopause, you gotta bring it in if, especially if they just start stabbing all the signs of menopause and, and menopause is such a spectrum for a woman. You know, I have some who go through menopause and they just almost even know that they stopped cycling, you know, and then I have others who just have every symptom and they're miserable, they're suffering. I mean, even just joint pains, eye dryness, kind of things you don't even think would be from a menopausal transition can happen, but that's kind of something we'll be looking out for. Um, you know, oral estradiol is good because it does have another, uh, first pass effect through the liver that kind of helps with these fatty acid esters, which are really good for the heart. Um, transdermal, whether it's through a cream or a patch are good, especially if they have anything from a coagulability standpoint, um, that you're worried about. I don't really worry about oral estradiol too much personally from, uh, replacement, but, um, medical legally, I still would use a patch or some sort of transdermal estradiol if they smoked or had some sort of coagulopathy, um, just to make sure that's okay. Yeah. We'll bring that in when we need to sometimes perimenopause, late, late perimenopause. If you bring it in too early, you're going to have, they'll, they'll have unwanted symptoms, abnormal bleeding, breast tenderness, um, moodiness, that kind of stuff. So it's, it's a, it's a fine titration on trying to, uh, when to bring it in postmenopause, easy peasy. They need it. They need the bone protection. They need the cardiovascular protection. It helps their mood libido. It's kind of like, um, you know, I kind of think estradiol is kind of more of the antidepressant, uh, for them, whereas progesterone is the anti-anxiety. And so balancing those can really help, uh, just overall mood stability on top of all the other metabolic, uh, improvements that it'll do. Awesome. And, um, when should we think about, uh, adding testosterone for women? Is that also early pre-menopause? Yeah, that can kind of be at any time. What symptoms do they experience? Uh, yeah. And it's the same as guys, you know, low energy, low drive, low motivation, brain fog, poor libido, poor muscle gain, uh, increased fat deposition. Um, just same symptom as guys. And we will screen it whenever, meaning, uh, if they have, uh, low testosterone symptoms, we'll bring it on. You know, if they're on synthetic birth control, we got to talk about, um, maybe an alternative form. It is, you don't want them to get pregnant on testosterone. That has to be, uh, in your, uh, thought process as well on how they're preventing pregnancy if they can, if they're still of childbearing age. Um, and so, yeah, we'll bring it on at any time. And again, they do wonderful with it. Um, I do, I would say they're not as sensitive to it as guys, you know, guys are just extremely sensitive to it. And some women are extremely sensitive to it. You know, PCOS is somewhat of an androgen sensitivity, but, um, most of them do very well. And we will, uh, we'll bring it on really at any time. Post-menopausal, easy peasy. A lot of times, they just don't have any. And again, it helps protect bones and helps, you know, perimenopause with energy, libido, whenever they're struggling. And so, uh, women of pretty much all adult women could potentially benefit if they're low and if, uh, they're symptomatic. Yeah. And you, you also do this, uh, by levels, uh, you measure it first. Yeah. We'll, we'll measure it and see. And as him and guys will, we'll measure total, uh, sex hormone binding globulin and calculate their free and women, it's kind of hard to really tell you like, oh, you know, and guys, we can say 20 to 40, 20 to 25 to 35 and a free testosterone and guys. And they typically do pretty well women, you know, maybe two to four or so, but, uh, it's again, just symptom based wherever they feel the best is where we're doing. Some of them need a lot lower and some of them will take a little bit higher, you know? And so we'll just, uh, kind of see again, let symptoms guide rather than just the numbers on the, on the labs. I guess pre-menopause, it's very difficult since they're still cycling, um, to, to recognize certain symptoms, they go on and off and you have the three hormones still cycling. Yeah. And, um, you know, testosterone, you know, in a guy, uh, a young guy, you put them on testosterone and now we got to address the fertility component in a, in a female, they still, they still cycle normally, you know, as long as you don't have these mega doses, um, and you do it, you know, appropriately. A lot of times they still keep their normal gonadotropins. They keep their normal cycle and then they can kind of, they can get the benefits of the better energy, drive, motivation, libido, muscle building, all that stuff without even really, uh, impacting your cycle. And, uh, and yeah. And then the last one is thyroid. We all, we're always going to be optimizing thyroid in these women as well. They're very, they're, I feel like they're more sensitive to thyroid than guys are. And so along with all those other ones, we're going to make sure that they, we can get their thyroid, uh, dialed in where they can feel the best with that. And then now they have just a much better hormonal milieu, you know, just their overall mitochondria, body chemistry just seems to all work synergistically whenever all these are, uh, circulating at decent levels. In my practice as a dermatologist, uh, I, uh, hear more women than men over 50 states, uh, how I'm gaining weight. Oh, that, that, that, that's the hormone thing. Um, what, what, what hormone causes, uh, this weight gain in women over 50? Yeah. The estrogen decline kind of changes where fat is deposited. And so getting their estrogen levels will help. It is tough. I mean, I'll say guys just cheat in terms of, you know, body composition, because I mean, I was just comparing, we get a, a body scan, uh, for muscle mass, body fat, visceral fat with all of our patients. And I was just comparing mine to the other nurse practitioner and, you know, my basal metabolic rate is 2200 and hers is 1100, you know, so I can eat double what she can eat and not gain anything where if she eats what I eat, she's going to be in a thousand calorie surplus, you know? And so they just have to be very mindful. And that again is where the building muscle comes in to give them a bigger metabolic engine, you know, so that they can, uh, you know, eat a little bit more and everything, but it, it comes, they just have to be extremely mindful because they are, um, very sensitive to increased fat deposition and everything. And I mean, we see it all the time. These women who have been active their whole lives, and then their estrogen stops dropping and they do just, um, maintain, they put on more than what they would previously. And they haven't changed too much. They're still very active and mindful, but the hormones just kind of work against them. And so making sure their thyroid and their testosterone will, are optimal, will help with body composition, just kind of overall metabolism. And then, uh, estrogen, progesterone just help them feel better so that they will keep carrying things out, you know? And so it's just kind of, but it is, it is a hard process for, for them and us, you know, they just got to be meticulous and we'll try and get the hormones right. And then they'll have to kind of take over from there in terms of trying to get some resistance training, even if it's just twice a week, you know, it makes a difference in terms of muscle mass, bone mineral density, and overall body composition. But, you know, I'm really main, I'm really pushing it more for bone mineral density, muscle mass there, any muscle they can get in their fifties. That's going to be their longevity token to their seventies, their eighties, their nineties, so that we can keep them happy and functional and, uh, independent in all those years. Uh, is it your experience that men are more open to, or willing to work out, uh, resistance strain than, than women? Yeah, it's just, I think it just stems, especially, uh, women in their 60s plus, they just have that mindset that they need to be as frail or not frail, they turn for, but they need to be as skinny as possible, you know, and guys, guys just want to, we have that drive. We want to lift and do more. And so it's a little easier to get a guy doing it, but man, if you get a woman, do it, they, again, they, they just feel so empowered. They, um, feel better. They're more confident. And then, you know, you get on resistance training and in the ER, a very common thing, uh, is, you know, a hip fracture in a woman, uh, just because they get severe osteoporosis and, you know, the resistance training is going to prevent that fracture if they fall, you know, but if they're doing stuff, they may even prevent the fall completely. Now they have better muscle mass, better proprioception. And so, you know, it just prevents that, uh, fall from even happening and don't even worry about it. But even if they do fall, they'll balance instead of breaking that hip and the hip fracture statistics are always so profound. It's like 50% of those will that break a hip will die within a year. Um, and of those 50% that survive 50% of them will not get back to their their level of independence, you know? So that's screams horrible morbidity, um, associated with the hip fracture. And so try again, trying to, you know, backtrack, look back 10, 20 years, what did we need to do to prevent that day? And it's, you know, working on protein intake, resistance training, hormone optimization, that kind of stuff. So, yeah, we, we try to quote, unquote, prescribe at least two days of resistance training to anybody that comes and sees this. Yeah, sure. Again, comparing women and men, um, the administration route for testosterone, um, I guess, uh, I don't know, but my, I would guess that women are, um, much less, uh, wanting to, um, inject testosterone than men. Is that right? Yeah. You know, really they, with the GOP ones, uh, you know, injecting yourself is kind of in peptides, you know, injecting yourself is not as scary as what they think. And so we probably just like guys, we probably have more on injections and we have cream. We have several on cream. Um, and like in guys, I used, uh, cream as well, and I'll have them apply it to their scrotum. Women, uh, I'll kind of have them do the same external labia or inner thigh. You know, sometimes you just don't want to do external labia, but inner thigh. And they kind of get the same, like guys applying it to their scrotum, get better DHT. And so maybe it helps with libido a little bit more. Um, but the injections twice a week for women do amazing. You know, they do a good job and it's easy to adhere to for the most part. Um, yeah, they, they, they do just fine. We don't have many that's really against it, uh, at all that I was expecting. I figured most of them would be on cream, but most of, I'd say the majority are probably on injections with us. Okay. I wouldn't have expected that. Yeah. Um, uh, do you have, uh, couples coming in, uh, together both for, uh, HRT? Yeah, occasionally. And it kind of, since I was just guys at first, it was just guys, uh, but now they'll kind of come in and we still try and separate them for the most part just so that, you know, they're not taught telling each other, you know, sometimes it's positive for them, but I still like to talk to whether it's a man or a woman individually so that we know the individual goals. But yeah, we have several, uh, couples that are doing it together and it works great. So we don't mismatch their libido or anything, which was one of the things that I kind of struggled with, with guys. Um, whenever I was just a men's health only clinic, you know, the guy feels great on testosterone and his woman is beating him up or trying to keep him off with a pole, you know? So, sometimes helping the woman out, you know, sometimes a woman out does the guy now. And so we kind of got to make sure, uh, just balancing it is, is the goal between them and testosterone does a great job. And there are a couple other things out there. PT-141 is a peptide that we use for women. It's kind of like on demand, I'd say close to female Viagra. Um, that does pretty good. It has a brand FDA brand name of by Lise. Um, those there's the band stream, which is brand name Addy. And that kind of helps increase just the baseline level of desire. It's expensive. So we don't have tons on that and haven't had tons of success, but I've had some, uh, and then, you know, like a daily to Dallasville for a guy, women can get a little bit of benefits from that. Sometimes we'll do oxytocin and that kind of helps, um, both men and women in terms of sexual health. Um, interesting. I had a guy, um, you've had Nico on, uh, uh, here before Nico Mesla. I've talked with him and he was using oxytocin as a, um, like PTSD for guys and using it for social anxiety. And I, uh, uh, uh, have a couple that do that and it works well. Musician that sprays it before he goes on. He says it's great for PTSD. You know, there's a little sidebar. I got off on that. Um, but yeah, women can have a little bit, or we have a little bit more of a sexual health component or erectile dysfunction as well, that we can go further down, especially if that's something that, um, they want to talk about during their appointment as well. Yeah. Awesome. Um, are there certain diet recommendations that you give both to men and women, um, getting older? So it's going to be protein. I mean, if people listen to me or come in and listen, I'm sure they get tired of me talking about protein, but especially as you get older, you just get, you know, androgen resistance and, you know, protein resistance. So you actually need even more proteins that get this response that we're trying to get out of it. And so, um, I want both of them to be trying to get a gram per pound of full body weight a day. And, um, you know, fibers under talked about, but I want people to get fiber, um, to help her, you know, just regular bowel movement, especially if they're on a GLP one. Um, but it also helps prevent colon cancer and a ton of other cancers. So fiber needs to be on there. And sometimes the carnivore guys are, you know, against that or whatever, but I think, uh, fiber still plays a very important part, you know, through leafy greens, vegetables, fruits, you know, whatever their preferences. But, you know, from that standpoint, I don't do, I don't try and give them, you know, tons of macros or anything. I'm just like, get your protein in, stay in, get a calorie goal, you know, whether if we're trying to build, maintain or lose, we'll kind of give them a calorie goal and then build that day that works for you. I mean, be consistent with it, but you gotta be, if you're tracking, you gotta know, weigh out your liquids, your dipping sauces, that kind of stuff. As boring as that sounds, as meticulous as that is, that's the backbone of knowing where you stand. And so we try and get them to track for a little bit just to build calorie awareness. I don't, I'm not saying they have to do it forever, but just so they know how many calories are in their liquids, their dipping sauces, everything it's coming from. And then, aside from that, you know, their protein, their calorie goal and get their protein, get some fiber in there. And that's about the extent of my diet to try and make it to where it's not too complex. And then we'll try and build them a diet. You know, there's tons of AI programs now that, you know, just put in how many calories you want in a day, how much protein you want, how much fiber you want and what you like, what you're allergic to, what, you know, this diet works for you. I mean, they'll spit out a meal for you, you know, and keep it under this button and they'll spit it out for you. And so it's awesome. And so utilize the tools we have these days to help make that. Yeah. Mainly protein as they age is just get the protein because the diet's going to go down and protein sticks are fine. They have a great amino acid profile. They're absorbed well, you know, just find one that doesn't tear up your gut. Most of them taste much, it tastes much better today than what they did 15 years ago. You know, they used to be so chalky. You couldn't hardly even stomach them. Now it's a dessert at the end of a meal, you know, they taste great. So yeah, I agree. One last thing I wanted to touch upon. I hear a lot of people, men and women over 45, 50 complain about joint pains. Typically they tell me, I would love to go to the gym, but I can't. I have a tendon ache here or joint pain in my hips or whatever. What are your standard recommendations for joint complaints, supplements, and maybe also peptides because I have no experience with peptides. Yeah. And so there's a few. And again, my, my initial thing is, is pretty boring and it's not very sexy in terms of like, wherever you're hurting, I want you to try and make sure that you strengthen above and below the joint. You know, if it's a knee, make sure your quads are strong, your tibia is strong. You know, if you need formal physical therapy to give you just a regimen so that you can strengthen and make sure you have good mobility around, you know, for backs, you know, that you have good core that you're stretching, you know, and then I don't want you to be scared to where you're not doing things. You know, people used to say, oh, my back hurts. So here's a week of bed rest. No, I want you to be up moving when you can tolerate, you know, let the pain guide you. You don't push through the pain with any of this stuff, but, you know, get, get a regimen where you stay active, you move things, you, you know, grease, grease the gears and work on your strength and mobility where you can. And then you can add in, you know, some of the supplements. Yeah. In terms of joints, there's nothing that like, I mean, do this and it's going to clear it up. I mean, like, um, glucosamine, chondroitin, fish oil, uh, the collagen powders, that kind of stuff, hyaluronic acid that they may have some utility and you can take them if they work for you. Great. Do them. Um, I, the growth hormone secretogogs help with, uh, joint pain sometimes, uh, it in the like growth hormone guys, sometimes it can worsen joint pain. Um, if they're going way out, you know, those aren't my, uh, population that with the growth hormone secretogogs, a lot of times I don't, have worsening joint pains. Typically it helps them. The one that everybody, you know, these days with all the rage is BPC-157. I like BPC. Um, I think it has great use. You know, I just, again, I'm not very sexy in terms of, I tell guys we don't have long-term human studies just to say this is to take freely willy-nilly. And I do think it has millions of good anecdotes. We just don't have the human studies to say that it, uh, works or doesn't. You know, or is safe or not. I think it works well. I've had a lot of good anecdotes myself with the patients and they've had a lot of good results. But you know, the, the big scary thing that is a biological pathway is it goes through the VEGF pathway to help promote angiogenesis, which, you know, in an area of pain, ligaments, joints, tendons that don't have a lot of blood flow and you're improving blood flow. Um, it helps. And that's where it's, you know, it helps reduce the pain is improving blood flow. If there's a cancer we didn't know about, it could have made it more aggressive. You know, has this been really proved through the studies? Not really, but it hasn't not been proved. And so I'm just kind of, you know, I have this conversation with them and it's like, yeah, it sounds scary. It could be there. Um, I don't know if it's there or not. It's just something that I don't want to catch us by surprise in 10 years, you know, because you wanted to get your joint pain fixed in two weeks compared with four weeks, you know? So, um, again, that sounds very, um, boring, but I, I think it is just worth of the conversation of having with the data we have today. Hopefully somebody picks it up, does legitimate human studies, randomized control trials, and we can, um, you know, put that stuff to the side. That's just today the knowledge I have. There's like, I don't know, one or two human studies that aren't randomized control trials and everything is in rats and in rats and stuff. It looks awesome. I mean, they'll sever the Achilles tendon and it grows back and it's even more structurally sound than what it was prior. I mean, yeah, it sounds awesome. Um, I just kind of let them know, like, uh, you know, let's, uh, let's try, you know, make sure physical therapy is first. We have a, you know, a shockwave machine, the extra corporal shockwave machine that does well. We'll do PRP injections. Um, I don't have an ultrasound, so I won't do it hip or back in office, but other, uh, joints that will do PRP and that has good results. Um, and so, but really at the, I'm all, if it's something that cuter, uh, I want to make sure they went through appropriate strengthening and stretching prior before we're trying all the more experimental stuff. Next for corporal stuff, have in PRP has some literature, but, uh, in terms of like BPC and stuff, I'm kind of doing it as a, if the other stuff has failed, we'll, we'll bring it on and you're okay with the unknown. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. All right. So, uh, thank you so much, Mason, uh, for sharing all this, if people would want to contact you, uh, how can they do that? Yeah, we are in Texas and we can do telemedicine throughout Texas. Uh, we're in San Angelo, Texas specific, if you're happen to be local. Um, and then we're on all the socials. We're on YouTube at Live Oak health, more longer form content. And then there's, uh, Instagram, Facebook, Tik Tok at, uh, live up testosterone. Awesome. Uh, maybe any last advice to, uh, the people still, uh, watching men and women? Yeah. I mean, uh, just nothing that comes off to aside from just get moving, find something that you like to do. You know, if you don't have an exercise regimen, whether it's with friends, family, pets, a competition, you know, just try and find something that you look forward to doing that you don't talk yourself out of, you know, that you can do 30, 40 minutes a few times a week. And if you can do it with people, humans are, you know, we like to be around other people. And so there's a lot of you'll adhere to it a lot longer. And so just find something that you like to do and move as much as you can throughout the day. Awesome. Thank you so much for this nice talk, Mason. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks for having me on. That was awesome.