Injection Pain Relief Home Remedies are often searched for online, and being a dermatologist I am asked very frequently how to treat these local skin reactions, whether this concerns injecting testosterone for a TRT protocol, vaccinations in babies and young children, or injection biological drugs for inflammatory diseases like rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, or psoriasis. In this video I will answer the question: Can we apply Cortisone Cream For Injection Reactions Symptoms? What strength should I use, how aften do I apply it, and for how long? Please like and subscribe. Thank you! And hit that notification bell so you won’t miss anything. Corticosteroid medicines are derivatives of the natural corticosteroid hormones that are produced by the adrenal glands. These have many important functions in the body, including control of inflammatory responses. Corticosteroid medicines are mainly used for their effect in controlling inflammation, and topical corticosteroids are applied directly to your skin (as opposed to taking a pill by mouth) to provide relief for a wide variety of dermatological conditions. They can also be used as a relief for post injection pain and reactions, if these are not infected, as I have explained in previous videos, that I will link under this one. Topical corticosteroids can be prescribed or purchased over-the-counter, depending on their strength. Corticosteroids are often simply called steroids, but it should be noted that they are very different from another group of steroids, for example anabolic steroids. Topical steroids are absorbed into the skin cells. They stop these cells from producing various inflammation-causing chemicals that are normally released when the skin reacts to allergens or irritation. These inflammation-causing chemicals include prostaglandins and various other inflammatory substances. They cause blood vessels to widen and other inflammatory substances to arrive, resulting in the affected area of skin becoming red, swollen and itchy. By preventing these inflammatory chemicals from being released in the skin, corticosteroids reduce inflammation and relieve its related symptoms such as itchiness. They can come in different forms\hincluding: Creams, the form that's prescribed most often, are a mixture of water and oils\hand usually contains a preservative. They're especially good for hairy and wet areas and are easily applied without a greasy feel. Ointments\hare made of oils and little to no water\hand don't usually contain a preservative. They're great for dry, scaly skin or areas with thick skin like the soles of your feet and the palms of your hands. Gels are made with water and propylene glycol and, like creams, they're easy to apply. Solutions, foams, and lotions\husually contain oil, water, and other chemicals and are used on your scalp. Topical steroids can be divided into four different strengths – mild, moderate, potent and very potent. The strength of a topical steroid is determined by a standardized test that measures the extent to which it can cause your blood vessels to constrict in the upper dermis (the layer of skin that's just below the outer epidermis). Comparatively speaking, a very potent topical steroid is between 600 and 1,000 times stronger than a mild one. The mildest one is Hydrocortisone 1%. Of course there are different brand names. Very often this strength can be bought over-the-counter. Moderate strength cortisone creams are Triamcinolone acetonide 0.1%, Fluocinolone acetonide 0.025%, and Mometasone furoate 0.1%. Potent strength topical corticosteroids include dipropionate 0.05%, Betamethasone dipropionate 0.05%, and Betamethasone valerate 0.1%. Very potent strength topical corticosteroids include Clobetasol propionate 0.05%, and Betamethasone\hdipropionate\h0.25%. Okay, now to the practical side of things. To get relief of inflammatory post-injection reactions such as pain, swelling and redness, a potent or even very potent strength topical corticosteroid can be used. There is no need to worry about frequently mentioned side-effects such as skin thinning (atrophy), enlarged blood vessels (telangiectasia) and Stretch marks (striae), since all these are really only seen on prolonged use of unnecessarily potent topical steroids, and not at all if you use them as indicated for inflammatory post-injection reactions. The general recommendations are using this potent to very potent strength topical corticosteroid for 3 to 5 days maximum, and massage the cream on the affected area twice or three times a day. Okay, I hope this advise helped you out. Leave the video a thumbs up, and make sure that notification bell is turned on, just to be sure not to miss any new uploads. Feel free to comment or ask questions under this video. I try to answer everything, every day.