What are some TRT clinic red flags? >> Hi, and a quick message before we start. If you appreciate the content we bring to this channel, consider becoming a channel member. For the price of a coffee per month, you will get a loyalty badge next to your name in the YouTube comments that will attract your attention more rapidly and easily when you have question. Next to many other perks like membersonly videos, early access to new videos, rough cuts and bloopers, and members only live streams. Use the link under this video to become a member. Thank you, >> man. That's a that's going to open a can of worms for a lot of people. And my red flag may be different from somebody else's red flag. I just want people to know that that I have my own standards about certain things and what I like to see. And not everybody those things don't matter to everybody. So I get that. I think in general though there are some things that if you kind of go through our group, you'll see common red flags that most people at least in our group kind of can agree that are red flags. Um, and it depends on just it doesn't have to be with a TRT clinic. There's red flags obviously from if people want to go through their regular provider, alipathic provider, whatever, uh, or osteopathic, any any mainstream provider if they're trying to do the insurancebased system. Um, they're going to probably have a harder time doing that. Um, most providers are not savvy to keying in on symptom resolution. They will still focus primarily on baseline lab ranges. That's a red flag whether it's a TRT clinic or a regular clinic or whatever in my opinion. Um so constant obsession with labs over the individual is a red flag. I think throwing people on multiple compounds at the first visit is a red flag personally and I know there are reputable clinics that do that and they can get away with it in some people but I've in general I'm I'm a personally a one variable at a time kind of guy. um it just makes more sense from aological perspective just to see what's affecting the body. So I do if they you go to a clinic and they're like you need you know you need to pay us $1,000 for all these different meds at once because I've seen it. Um I've seen people slammed on not only testosterone but highdose thyroid, DHEA, pregnant alone, HCG, peptides all in the first visit and that's a red flag uh to me. Um I think those are the big ones. Obviously aromatase inhibitor prescri prescribing and recommendation of frequent phbotoies. Both of those are to me are red flags. Again that's a personal preference kind of thing. I get it that some people are passionate about that topic and they demand they have to donate or they have to be on an AI. It's like that's then that's not a red flag for you. But if you're keyed into the discussion and what we've talked about and understand a lot of the the fallacies involved in those claims when you do go to those clinics and they start pushing it, that's a a bit of a red flag. Now, you can oftentimes give push back and work work with certain providers who say, "Oh, no, no, it's okay. We won't, you know, require that or you don't have to do the AI. It's just here if you need it," quote unquote, which shows me they don't really know the topic. But, you know, that's okay. Everybody's got to work within the bounds of the the clinic and the finances that they have, you know. Um, but I would say those are the big red flags to me. That and I think these and again, I'm probably stepping on toes here and and I get it. Um, because we don't resell medicines or labs, so we have no dog in that hunt. Um, the requiring patients to get these massive lab panels all the time, uh, I think is a red flag. Um, labs don't tell people what they think they do. um it's massively fraught with um philosophical issues when determining the meaning of labs, especially baseline labs, not not it's one thing if you're monitoring a therapeutic drug level. Um it's another thing if you're just trying to correlate a bunch of baselines with people and you just can't do it. Um but they they get package deals for these labs and they push them on people and you know now that the rise of the functional medicine world which is kind of drives me nuts. Um they're claiming they're going to get to your root cause but it's really just more and more lab tests. It's like well then that's not that's not getting the root cause per se. >> So just be aware of these kind of things. I'm not saying these are all technically red flags but these are things to look out for. I think um going like with the insurance route, if you do try to go the regular dock, that's going to be hard for you. I can't consider that a red flag per se, but just know that you're going to have some hurdles fighting with insurance companies. And then doctors who are still in that insurance model, you know, they just have a different mindset in general. Obviously, I didn't have that mindset when I was doing it under the insurance model, but I'm I'm weird, you know, and you'll find some occasional ones who really enjoy providing hormones the optimal way and still have a regular practice. And so take insurance and I mean those are diamonds in the rough if you can find that. Um but I still think in general I would recommend people not use insurance uh to get at least not even to pay for their hormones because you don't want insurance involved in any any of your care. You don't want them requiring labs and and doing I've seen stupid stuff where they demand the patient be taken off his testosterone to see if his levels remain normal or it's just like no you guys don't get it. So those would be those would be my big red flags. I'd say there's probably more. Um, but those are the big ones that we see most commonly.