Let's talk about the new oral testosterone that seems promising now because I'm curious. Up till now, I've always heard that oral testosterone does not work. Yeah. So, Stephen, I'm excited to see that there is a new development in the world of testosterone replacement. It's the oral testosterone and specifically testosterone underoid. So testosterone underoid is an estester that's been used for long term and the injectable um the injectable for it is nebido. It's the inject the the testosterone you inject every um two to three months and that lasts a long time in your in your system. Well over the past five I think even eight to 10 years they've developed the oral testosterone under canoid and I've been keeping a very close eye on it. There were different brand names that have come out that I've used in my patients that I had so so success. First, there was a a Troy form that was pure testosterone and up USB that we've used again. We've had so results. My patients maybe 25% of my patients would say, "Okay, yes, I feel good enough. I'll stay on it." Not maybe not even that much. Testosterone canoid. I used one brand name before called Jatenzo that I like but I did not get great results for it. The latest oral testosterone that I've been using and that I've been really looking at is called Kaisotrix. And Kaisotrix again I feel like they've really improved on the testosterone on the canoid and I'm getting really good results with my patients. We've switched more than a hundred patients now on oral Kaiser and we're getting great results. And the key to all the the testosterone on the canoid oral is that it's not absorbed through the lift. It doesn't go to the B first bypass of the liver. It's absorbed to the intestinal lymphatics. So it bypasses the liver. So that issue that everybody knows that oral testosterone can cause liver toxicity. Not with this form. The one thing that's kind of a pain with oral testosterone, you have to eat kind of some fat with it to be absorbed. So a lot of our patients in our wellness clinic are fasting and we've always promoted fasting. So my patients who take oil testosterone and again what I like with Kais versus Jatenzo that you don't need to have a highfat meal to be able to absorb it a small amount of meal. So most of our patients what we have them do we have them take a tablespoon of good quality olive oil that is a good thing anyway for the polyphenols and then you take that with your oral testosterone and with this it shows really good absorption so it's usually dosed twice a day what we like with it is that it goes in and out very quickly the halflife is about four to six hours so you need to take it twice twice a day but let me tell you what the benefits are because it is such a short halflife it does not cause the negative feedback loop to the pituitary. So you don't stop your own production. So the side effects of testosterone that we're always worried about is decreased fertility, testicular atrophy or decrease of your own production. We don't have that with the oral testosterone. Also another big thing you know with injectable testosterone we have maybe 30% of our patients who develop secondary ariththroytosis a high hemoglobin and hematocrine. And for my patients who have underlying sleep apnnea, you see that even more. So there's always a lot of discussion in the testosterone forums. What should we do about a high hemoglobin, right? If it's maybe 50 52, you may not feel it too much, but we know that if it's about 54, if it's 56, 58, a lot of patients are symptomatic and there's still a possibility of increased risk of heart disease, clots or or stroke. And no matter what the studies are, it's not conclusive, but in the US, there is a standard of care from the American Association of Endocrinology that says that if your immacul at risk of developing um cardiovascular disease or clots and I have a patient, a colleague, another patient, a colleague of mine who got in trouble recently and is being sued because a patient who was on testosterone had a mitoid of about 56 and had a stroke. They cannot prove that the stroke was due because of this, but because he didn't follow standard of care, he's being sued. So what I do with my patients when they have a hematocrit above 54, a lot of them are symptomatic anyway. I don't want to keep him that way. I'll change the dose. I'll put them maybe to daily injections. Make sure that they stay hydrated. There are supplements like nanocynise that can help with this. We do blood donation while you monitor the feritin. You know, we've talked about this a lot. So there's a lot of management that you need to do when a patient develops that. You don't get that with the oral testosterone. So for my patients who have issues with thick blood, oral kaisot is a really good option. For my younger patients who still desire fertility, you maintain fertility while on testosterone. So again, we've said that, right? Um before we always thought that testosterone was just u lot only happen in old men. Um delayed onset hypogonadism happened in your 50s and 60s. That's not the reality anymore. The average patient in my clinic is 37 with real low tea, real testosterone deficiency. So if I have a young patient now who comes to me still desires fertility, the option we always had is to combine testosterone plus HCG or testosterone with enlophine which I don't love. I like HCG much more but now we have another option oral testosterone under canoid and now what I'm seeing with my patient with oral kaisotra almost we got almost a 75% positive response on our patients. The patients that I see are not maybe loving it as much is patients who were used to injections. So they are used to those high levels for them they like this. But especially if a patient is new to testosterone they love the Kaisotrix and for the patients who have issue that becomes a really good option. So I'm excited about this. I can't wait to see that more people are going to use it. But if you go on a lot of I I go on Reddit and those thread of forums a lot to try to see what are people saying about it. mostly positive about that old Kaiser tren. So really interesting and we'll just have to keep an eye on it. Is it expensive? It is more expensive than the injection. Um but it's still that I don't remember the numbers and we won't go over numbers there, but it is more expensive than the injection. But if you com if you compare testosterone plus HCG versus kaotrix by itself, now it becomes more cost effective. And if you compare that you have and I had a patient the other day with this. He has underlying sleep apnnea. No matter what we do, his hematocrit was in the 58 range. He's symptomatic with it. Um and you know like when when they when they tried doing even his his um blood donation, the the flabbotomy sent me a picture. His blood was so thick it could barely come out of the needle. I can't leave a patient with such thick blood. I don't care what people are going to say that there's no study that there's harm. The patient freaked out and I freaked out. The blood was solid. I'm like, "No, we can't keep you." I switched them to micro doing daily injections, lots of water, nattokynise. I put them on a baby aspirin. Still stayed high. I switched him to a kaisot. Within four weeks, his hemoglobin went down. He felt great. He didn't have the Sometimes when you have high hemoglobin, you have a sensation of heat in your head. You feel your blood pressure can go up. All of this went away. So, this guy's so happy and he's like, "Now I don't even have to inject myself anymore." That's the other benefit of Kaisotrix. A lot of resistance of patients to go on TLT is they don't want to inject themselves. So now that can go and and help those patients