Liver thyroid relationship, that is today's topic. The reason why I'm talking about this today is because statistically speaking about 30% of people who have some kind of underlying liver disease, liver dysfunction, may also have a correlating or accompanying thyroid dysfunction as well. Now, the literature in the last 10, 15-ish years is starting to elucidate that having liver disease in a lot of cases is and can be a type of hypothyroidism. And we've started calling this term called liver hypothyroidism. It's also referred to as intrahepatic hypothyroidism as well. So, pathophysiologically, this makes a lot of sense because if you remember about 80 80% of the T4 to T3 conversion, this this occurs peripherally, meaning not within the thyroid, but somewhere else um distal to the thyroid. Now, of that 80% T4 to T3 conversion, almost 60% of that occurs within the liver itself. So, even if your hypothalamus to thyroid axis is working well, or even the thyroid itself is very healthy, is very robust, is working well, the fact that upwards of 60% of your T4 to T3 conversion occurs in the liver tells us that a lot of your thyroid hormone is contingent on having a healthy liver. Now, consider the overwhelming prevalence of the the umbrella, the spectrum of metabolic diseases that exist in our Western populations, or should I say almost worldwide now. So, under that umbrella, we're talking about obesity, we're talking about mash, m a s h, which is formerly known as nash. Think about diabetes, insulin resistance, all of that, metabolic syndrome. All those things fall under this spectrum. Now, anything in that spectrum can be a possible contributor to having what's known as liver hypothyroidism and/or intrahepatic hypothyroidism. Now, just think about the overall prevalence of that spectrum of metabolic diseases I just mentioned, those are all the target populations who may be susceptible to having this condition. From a diagnostic standpoint, things may get a little tricky here. First of all, TSH is not a good marker for identifying this condition. TSH may be normal, it may be low-ish normal. Now, T4 on the other hand, it might be normal, or sometimes it may be a little bit on the higher end of normal, which I find somewhat interesting. Now, this is most likely due to the pituitary's upregulation of deiodinase 2. Now, there's and that's a compensatory mechanism. Now, there's D1, D2, D3. Now, principally, in states of low thyroid activity or underactive um thyroid conversion, deiodinase 2 tends to get upregulated as a compensatory mechanism because the brain says, "Hey, I don't detect enough T3, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to increase my activity so I can provide more raw material in hopes that you'll produce more T3 from the raw material." And in this this case, the raw material is the T4. And this makes sense because if you provide more T4, which in this case would be the raw material in the context of upregulating deiodinase 2, the goal is to increase conversion of that T4 to T3. So, obviously, T3 levels are expected to be typically rather low, and this would meet the criteria for euthyroid sick syndrome, which essentially means you have low low T3 in the context of normal TSH and/or T4. Additionally, since this is a state of chronic stress, which is the liver's being chronically stressed due to metabolic diseases, the D3 enzyme activity would be expected to be upregulated. So, thus, your RT3 would be expected to be elevated as well. So, here's the take-home message. If you have poor tolerance of thyroid meds, there's a chance maybe you have some underlying liver disease, liver dysfunction that might be going on. Or if you have anything under the constellation of metabolic diseases, again, obesity, diabetes, insulin resistance, mash, fatty liver, whatever you want to call it. If you drink alcohol pretty regularly, then chances are you may have intrahepatic hypothyroidism at least to some degree. And no, taking a ton of liver supplements isn't going to magically improve your liver and thus your thyroid. Instead, you're going to have to work on treating the underlying issue, which is the metabolic disease itself.