What are the typical uh symptoms for women when they're low in testosterone? >> You know, it's I mean, frankly, it's not dissimilar to men. Uh low libido, uh decreased drive and motivation. Um I always tell my patients, you know, testosterone is kind of the effort and reward hormone. Um and we we can see, of course, where where pleasure and reward maybe gets mixed in with libido. Um, but but women especially are they're very good at continuing to do things even when life sucks. And I think a lot of men will just play video games and eat Cheetos for the rest of their life, but women are fantastic at at continuing to move on because they're moms and they're busy. Um, so, you know, I think a lot of women just have no concept of lack of motivation truly because they're just so busy trying to provide for their families. And um so anyways, when you really talk to women and you describe a lot of those symptoms, those similar symptoms to men, um obviously, you know, even uh decreased muscle mass, increased body fat, you know, just that that brain fog especially, all of those things we see in men that we're going to see the same thing in women. I think it's just it's parceling that out for them and and kind of showing it to them so that they understand it. >> And what administration route do you prefer for women? Yeah, again, similar to men, uh, uh, topical, uh, compounded creams, uh, or injections. I would, I would argue the vast majority of my females just prefer the topical creams. Um, I generally speaking have them apply the topical creams intravaginally. Um, I I love having it applied to a mucosal tissue, which would be like like the inside of your mouth or your vaginal canal, for example. um versus on the skin because you have so many um you know uh uh uh oh gosh I'm forgetting the dihydrotestosterone uh enzyme uh five alpha reductase uh you have a much more of those enzymes on your skin and so a lot of women don't want to use it uh topically for that reason because they'll get a little bit more hair growth potentially and things of that nature. When you do it uh intravaginally on a mucosal tissue, there's just much less of those uh pretty much almost no five alpha reductase enzymes. And so we get less of that dihydrotestosterone um and a much much unbelievable absorption. So, we can use far far less amount of cream and and still get the same bang for our buck.