

=== FILE: Best TRT Starting Dose for Testosterone Injections and Compounded Cream [I1zdWLr3ifQ].txt ===

 ect. How much is a reasonable amount of testosterone to take a week for a beginner, I guess, as TRT? Oh, it's TRT? Yeah. It just depends. Like I said, I start people, my general starting point is really around 80 milligrams twice a week for test sip. If I start them on cream, I start everybody at two clicks a day in the morning only just to assess how their body absorbs the cream after three or four weeks. I want to make sure they absorb it, see where those two clicks put them as an individual. After that, it's off to the races with them trying where they want to be, if they want to do twice or they are not. If their levels are at 2,500 on two clicks, I might be like, hey, try one click now. Oh, hey, let's reduce the concentration. Or if their levels are 600 on two clicks, we might be like, eh, cream may not be for you. I mean, we'll still try it, but there's a happy medium of absorption, but it gets cost-prohibitive if you're one of those poor absorbers. But yeah, it's going to totally depend on your provider. I know providers that start people on the low end, I think 100 milligrams a week total is probably as low as one should be started. And even then, that's pretty darn low for most people. If you start them with frequent injections, it probably will be okay. Like if you did a daily or every other day, but most beginners aren't going to do that. I just feel like a starting point of 140 to 160, 140 to somewhere in there, total weekly is a good starting point. And then, but it's always about the individual and how they respond to it and then adjusting based on how they feel. Yeah. Yeah. For cream, it also depends the base in which the testosterone is compounded. Yeah. I already shared it in another video, but I used for six years, I guess, two times three clicks a day, 20% in a liposomal base just to get levels of 1200 nanograms per deciliter total testosterone. And last year I switched to HRT base and for this to reach the same levels, I can get away with two times two clicks. Nice. Yep. So yeah, less cream. It's cheaper for me. Exactly. Yeah. That's still the same. Exactly. And that's my, I want to help people with the cost part of it too. So I'm always like, I start everybody with a triva space because that's easy to get here. I think it's a little edge above HRT as far as it's, but they're very similar. And I had good results. I started with HRT. It's, I like a trivas as far as the consistency of it, the way it dries a little better, but otherwise it's pretty equivalent as far as absorption and levels. The liposomal, yeah, I have not seen, I feel, and I can't remember, I had talked to my wife about it. Liposomal tends to be better for females to the vaginal mucosa. I think it's specifically best for that area. And when guys try to use it on scrotal or even regular skin, it's just not going to absorb the same way. I have to confirm that, but I think that's the deal with liposomal. Yeah, well, I get the same absorption from four clicks total instead of six clicks on liposomal base. Nice.

=== FILE: Can you come off TRT Testosterone Replacement Therapy ？ [iA6feijZMXw].txt ===

 can you come off of testosterone replacement therapy? If so, what happens? This is an extremely nuanced question, but the answer is, yeah, it's possible that you can come off of testosterone replacement therapy after you start it. Now, this is contingent on a few things. First of all, were you appropriately assessed? And if you were appropriately assessed, what did your FSH and or LH values look like prior to starting testosterone replacement therapy? Because if we have your FSH and LH values, we can identify and then stratify you into whether or not you have primary and or secondary hypogonadism, because that's a big factor in indicating and defining if your balls have the capability of making testosterone again. Another thing that taken into consideration is, how much testosterone were you even making before getting on testosterone replacement? Because let's be real, a lot of guys say that they don't want to get on testosterone because they're afraid it's going to shut down their natural production. Well, guess what? If your natural production is 200, 250, you ain't making anything anyways. So I mean, you really have nothing to shut down. Depending on the underlying etiology, then it's totally possible that you could possibly come off. We've had guys come off for whatever reason, whether it's deployment, personal reasons, what not. We've had guys come off and have some degree of recovery. So here's something to think about. Let's say that you start T or T at 30 and your testosterone is 350. Now you're 40 years old and you're considering coming off for whatever reason. Cool, okay? Now we know there's an age-related decline in your natural testosterone levels. So hypothetically, yours 350 at 30 might now be 250, 300 as your new baseline untreated. So you have to take in consideration, when you come off, if you're making testosterone, your new endogenous level is probably going to be lower just because time has passed and that's how life is. You make less as you get older. Also, you have to take in consideration, how has your health evolved from the time you started to the time you decide to come off? So let's say that same person, they have a 350 at age 30. Let's say now they're 40 and they're on a few new medications, they're on medications to treat lipids. They're on a statin. Let's say they have hypertension, they're on an ACE inhibitor. Let's say they've also gained 30 pounds. Well, we know they've got an age-related decline that can possibly contribute and now they have comorbidities to stack on top of that. So that 350 at 30, they're now 40 year old natural production might be 250 if they're lucky, concerned that again, age-related clients have occurred and they've also accumulated some comorbidities during this timeframe. Again, as you can see, this is an extremely nuanced question. No one can predict if you will produce testosterone again. No one can predict how much you will if you do. But I'm speaking from what I've seen clinically. I've worked with numerous, numerous guys, helped many of guys come off of testosterone again for whatever personal conviction or whatever reason they do. And the vast majority of them do recover their own natural production. And the degree of recovery tends to be within a deviation of their pre-TRT levels, albeit with some age-related client and or health-related changes. So someone says starting TRT means you're stuck on it for life. That's not necessarily true. However, one, you aren't making any in the first place. That's why you got on TRT. And two, who wants to go back to their pre-TRT levels and feeling the way they did? That's what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of the level of

=== FILE: Doctor & Attorney Warn： The Peptide Controversy Nobody's Talking About - Are Peptides Legal？ [C9OdsjydCAo].txt ===

 subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to ser subjected to I would hope to go by DJ, a transactional healthcare business attorney, work a lot and only with healthcare providers. And so have gotten a lot of questions over the last year in 2025 about peptides. What's legal? What's not legal? What if I am doing it anyway type questions? And so I'm excited to explore more as to what the law actually says with you. Well, let's get right into it. As a research, I'm under health and wellness practice, so I do a lot of research, a lot of literature reviews. And of course, every day I get a question on peptides, multiple questions on peptides from patients. And I used to take the time to write an extensive letter back to them. But now I just typically refer your website to them and specifically what you've written on your website because the information I found there was extremely valuable. And I want everyone to understand that this is not a podcast about peptides as far as good or bad. This is not what it's about. It's simply about trying to shed light on the truth about the prescribing of peptides by providers and the risks that they may be taking in doing so. And so David, if you can kind of lead us into this, you know, on your website and I'm going to, this will be attached to our podcast, of course, but the unregulated world of peptides, what you need to know before you inject. Can you kind of lead us through? I'll just start as a high level overview, assuming we know, you know, very little about peptides. And so the United States does not make it easy, in my opinion, as an attorney, you know, trying to explain this day in and day out as to what we can and can't do. So I will say that right out of the gate. What I tried to do here, and I'm sure we can share it in the show notes, is state specifically what the FDA or the federal government has said we can and cannot do, you know, right on the website, straight bullets in guidance from the FDA. And the FDA in the United States has full authority to regulate and say what can and cannot be used in humans, period. Some people may not like that. Some people may not be thrilled about that, but those are the rules. High level, effectively, a peptide, such as, you know, BPC-157 or, you know, a whole other list of peptides, it needs to be on what's called a final bulk list, or it has to be an FDA approved drug. And a lot of these are not yet all the way FDA approved, which therefore means it's then illegal to compound inside of the United States. So I'll say that again. If the FDA hasn't either put it on one of its lists or given it a blessing, I'll just paraphrase, then it is illegal to compound in the United States. So then everyone, you know, usually says, well, then how are all these other providers doing it, or how are all these peptides making their way into gyms and, you know, shipping to my front door and things like that, to which, you know, I say, well, I don't have all of the facts, but I could make some educated guesses on how that might be happening. I will say this. First off, as a licensed attorney, I take my marching orders from federal law, state law, and that's it. You know, I can talk about what it says if there are exceptions, but if the exceptions don't exist, that's where my advice and the party would be over. But I will say this, the FDA has their hands full with a lot of stuff right now as we move into 2026. Enforcement of pharmacies as well as the providers themselves, I just don't think that there is currently the enforcement priority and power for them to be able to do so, but that does not make it legal. So an analogy I would give is I was, you know, driving on the highway today. Going on that highway was going, you know, probably 10 to 15 over. I'm not going to say whether I was going 10 to 15 over, but, you know, there just aren't a lot of cops on the highway. And so not a lot of people get pulled over. That doesn't make it legal. But I would use that analogy to a small degree as to what I'm seeing happening in the current market, just with how many people are landing on, you know, my, the articles that I put out, plus the questions that I'm getting. So I'll pause there. I know that's a long-winded answer. But on the blog, what I try to go through, and it's very confusing. I did not set the system up. I just comment on it. There are a few different things that, that happen, and I'll try and paraphrase them without getting too technical. And so there's what's, there's their, what are called compounded drugs, which are technically, we'll just say unapproved new drugs, but they got a little legal pass because they met certain requirements by the FDA. So that's a mouthful right there, right? Why can't we just have yes or no? Well, you know, it's, it's on its way to a yes and a potential approval. But in the meantime, the FDA is giving it a classification. So the first type of compounding or traditional compounding would be 503A. And so this is, this regulates pharmacies, the compound medications for individual identified patients. And there's a valid prescription, right? Okay, good. That, that kind of makes sense. And those pharmacies are primarily going to be overseen by the local pharmacy boards. Okay. I can kind of follow with that. Then we got these 503B. So not A, but B. And those would be outsourcing facilities. Effectively, what they do is they allow a large bulk batch of, you know, patient specific prescriptions to be manufactured and then sell for office use at the local, you know, clinic hospital. They have to follow, I think you mentioned, see GMP guidelines or the good manufacturing practices. That's a lot stricter than 503A. So in order to ship a bulk peptide to a provider, you got to meet this very specific list of requirements. There are also other peptides like BPC-157 where the FDA has gone even further and said there is no specific human use that's approved at this time. That may change in the future. Therefore, not allowed for human use. And so providers will say, well, okay, there's clinical and then there's research. So research is a known exception to that rule. Well, you know, research has a very specific framework for how it's done in the United States and just saying that something is for research, but then handing it over to a patient for you as a doctor, hypothetically, would not only be putting your professional license at jeopardy, but you're also exposing yourself. And I say this with respect to plaintiffs' attorneys out there, you know, the personal injury attorneys. They have now basically unlimited access to you because you technically violated federal law. So you violated law, any damages, we have unlimited reign over you. So high level, that's what's going on. I know that was a mouthful, so I'll pause there. It's excellent information. Let's go with that a little bit. So one thing that some of the prescribers may not understand and may not realize is their malpractice policies, malpractice insurance. Now Rick Collins, good friend of mine, he's a very well-known attorney in the United States that deals with performance enhancement issues, people that get arrested or get in trouble for performance enhancement drugs. But Rick is very knowledgeable in that area. But I specifically asked Rick about peptides and Rick looked right at me, he's a defense attorney and he said, Keith, whatever you do, never prescribe peptides. I'm like, I don't plan on a rig, but why? And he goes, because if a patient has a problem with it, if they have an issue, they blame it on the peptide, it's indefensible. I cannot defend you. No one can. That struck home. And once again, this is not a tie-rit against BPC-157. It's about the legalities of prescribing as a provider. They're trying to protect the providers with this podcast today. So I did contact as many malpractice insurers as I could before our podcast today, not a single malpractice provider covers non-FDA approved drugs or research chemicals or peptides like we're talking about that are on the do not compound list, not one. So anybody that literally is accused of giving a peptide that may have caused a problem to a patient, they will have no defense and their malpractice policy will not cover them. And as you know, defending yourself can run into the tens if not hundreds of thousands of dollars at times. All right? So that's the one issue that's very concerning is just that alone. And so a lot of our listeners, I see this on social media as well, they'll say, well, it's just the FDA. They just don't want you to have things that work. Well, whether I agree or disagree with that statement, I'm not a big fan of FDA, but nonetheless, the FDA is trying to look after the health of the individuals. And what I mean by that is that look, in order for us to prescribe a drug, an FDA approved drug, we have to have USPI information, which is prescribing information, the package insert that we get as physicians. And those are based off of randomized controlled trials in humans. So we develop this prescribing information. For these peptides and non-FDA approved, we don't have any of that information. And what is literally involved with an FDA approved drug, this is what is required in order for us to be able to prescribe it legally, you have to have certain information. And this is the information. You have to have a boxed warning. You have to have a section of indications and usage, dosage and administration, dosage forms and strengths, contraindications, warnings and precautions, adverse reactions, drug interactions, use in specific populations such as pregnancy, lactation, females and male reproductive potential, pediatric use, geriatric use, drug abuse and dependence, overdosage, description, clinical pharmacology, mechanism of action, pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenomics, immunogenicity, non-clinical toxicology and then clinical studies. Those are all part of the package inserts we have for the drugs that we prescribe every day even when we use them off-label. We have none of that information for VPC-1257 or CJC-1295, you name it. None of those that are on the do not compound list and that's why the FDA has not approved it for human consumption. Do you have anything to add to that, David? Yeah, 100% on the malpractice. I'll start there. So, that's the biggest one. You, any event and if you've ever been through a patient complaint or a medical malpractice allegation, a lot of that can become a he said, she said, you know, medical record is the best we can do. But again, your malpractice carrier would not cover it because you are not following the law. So, you have prescribed or you've broken the law in your administration of or your practice of medicine. Therefore, that's an excluded event. It's like if I committed, you know, legal malpractice, but I knew that I was doing something wrong, right? My malpractice carrier would say, well, that's excluded, right? It's the same reason why some, well, why most policies don't cover intentional torts. Like, I can't just go around and punch people and then expect my insurance company to pay the bill. Like, there are things that are excluded. This would be one of them. So, you'd have to pay out of pocket. I would agree that $100,000 would be a good day for some of those personal injury attorneys especially medical malpractice or sorry, medical malpractice plaintiffs attorneys. And the reason that plaintiffs attorneys like this is that unlike, you know, maybe a slip and fall case where you actually have to kind of prove, you know, well, was that a reasonable standard of care, right here? They just say unapproved peptide. Therefore, law broken. Therefore, all damages that result, right? So we're really only arguing about damages, which is never where you want to be as a provider. On top of that, now we're probably getting the attention of the local medical board, right? Now, you know, inadvertently, us having to deal with that patient complaint, I wouldn't be surprised if they also put, you know, a little complaint in with the medical board. You know, I won't comment on whether that's a good strategy from the plaintiff's perspective. I'm on the provider side. But now not only are you paying out damages and dealing with this patient and their attorney that's coming at you, but now you're also fending off the complaint from the medical board for which I don't think you're going to have a great defense. I'll even go one step further. And I wanted to make sure I got this right. But in Ohio this year, they actually, the board of pharmacy suspended a license of a effectively a medical spot. They did this by just going in, looking at some of the labeling and then saying, hey, this is according to our rules app. And effectively they're just kind of drawing upon FDA rules. Now simply saying the FDA is over burdened and, you know, the state isn't going to do anything. Medical boards, boards of pharmacies are starting to get involved. Also in New York and New Jersey, specifically for, you know, well, peptides, but set in a different way. It's being regulated for minors. So we're already starting to see a wave of state regulation come in. I actually think to go, you know, another step further on what you were saying, your biggest risk and some of the videos we were watching earlier, you know, I don't have all the facts. I can't comment on their situations. But I think actually your biggest risk now is the FTC or the Federal Trade Commission. So we have the FDA. Okay. That's one federal agency. Now we have the FTC. The FTC is generally in charge of regulating how advertising and how things are represented to consumers, a consumer in this situation being a patient. So if I have a website or a reel on a social media platform saying that something is far emigrate or misleading as to whether it's legal to use or not, the FTC has public record of you saying something. And the FTC under federal rules does not mess around in terms of season to sys as well as fines. And they're also allowed in some situations, not just to go after you civil, right? So okay, a fine season to sys, stop doing that, you know, money is one thing. But criminal charges as well, which is not never a good place to be. Well, do you mind if we, since you referred to the videos, there are YouTube shorts that anybody can go look at. There are hundreds of them probably, but do you mind if we play those videos? So are you sure? Yeah, yeah. Let's play some videos. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for sterility and potency. More importantly, I discussed the treatment plan, including proper dosing based on the medical literature and appear the right peptide for your specific goal. That's a powerful, but they're only as effective as the precision behind how they're used. So whether your goal is to heal, lose weight, grow muscle, or just live longer. Remember, the peptide isn't the magic. The science, safety and supervision behind the peptide is here's the part most people fail to understand. And this part's the critical part. When I started prescribing peptides about, say 15 years ago or so, they were thought of as something kind of fringe that only compounding pharmacies made and they had to be administered via subcutaneous injection. And then about 10 years ago, the FDA began very strict oversight of pharmacies that compounded peptides and medications. And that's why a lot of peptides now you're going to see online on some pop up website that says for research use only or not for human consumption. What that really means is they're not regulated. There's no FDA to enforce testing for purity or sterility. So when someone orders peptides off a random website, they're taking on major risks. Is this peptide even real? Is it five milligrams or maybe it's only three milligrams or worse? What if the peptide's not sterile and you inject it and now you're injecting bacteria into your system? Yes, these are injectable medications that go directly into your body. So sterility and quality control are non-negotiable. When my patients get peptides from me, they come from a licensed FDA registered compounding pharmacy or from pharmaceutical grade suppliers that have voluntarily had all of their products independently tested and verified for sterility and potency. Dr. Had, your board certified anti-aging and regenerative medicine MD here to talk to you guys about something very important, which is the difference between pharmaceutical grade or pharma grade peptides and research grade peptides. So pharma grade peptides are always going to be from a licensed pharmacy. Research peptides are going to be from a research facility. pharma grade peptides are regulated by the FDA, the pharmacy board they are licensed under as well as the DEA, whereas research peptides are unregulated because they're not meant for human use. They're meant for research purposes only. Pharmaceutical grade peptides have to be prescribed by a licensed physician in the state that you are getting them prescribed into. Research peptides can be given out by anybody, including naturopaths, chiropractors, therapists, health coaches, fitness trainers, influencers, the guy at the gym, or even you can get them yourself through the gray market online by yourself. pharma grade peptides require strict lab testing, which is regulated under CGMP and USP sterile pharmacy guideline rules, meaning that they have to be thoroughly tested for purity as well as for bacterial endotoxin to make sure they're safe, that you don't develop any serious life-threatening reactions, just like every other pharmaceutical that we have. There are strict rules that regulate and govern pharma grade peptides. Research grade peptides do not have these rules. There are some research peptide companies that are doing CGMP testing. I would recommend those over the ones that aren't, but just keep in mind this still is not a requirement because they're research grade or they're meant for research purposes only. pharma grade peptides, because there is a licensed physician obtaining the medication from a licensed pharmacy and a physician-patient relationship, there has to be an informed consent to take place, which means the physician has to talk to the patient about safety, risks and benefits, actually discuss and create an informed consent to see if the patient is not at increased risk. And if the patient is, then this needs to be discussed with the patient. With research grade peptides, people are able to get them without the patient, physician, risk and benefit, stratification, and assessment. So pharma grade peptides come to you from the pharmacy on ice generally in a vial that's reconstituted, ready to inject, and doesn't need to be mixed. Research peptides come to you generally in a lialaphalized powder, which either you have to mix yourself or the person giving them to you has to mix them for you, or they might give them to you in pre-filled syringes. Generally these would come as a powder that needs to be mixed. So make sure you ask these questions when somebody's giving you peptides. Are these research grade? Are they pharmaceutical grade? For your own long-term health and your own knowledge, it's important to know if it is research grade, look for that third-party testing, see if it's from a CGMP certified facility. Look for third-party testing, see if it's pure, and also see if other people have used that same company, have a good experience with it. If you want to know more about our pharmaceutical grade offerings for peptides, all of them are pharmaceutical grade, and all of them are meeting all the criteria that I mentioned on this side of the table. But it's important to know what you're taking so you can make the right, appropriate, actionable changes in your health and the safe changes that you need to make to optimize your health the most. I don't know the exact legal setup and all the facts with these individuals, but there is only one set of rules. They are the federal rules that are administered by the FDA. So suggesting it's something as pharmaceutical grade versus intended for research only, it misses how things are legally classified and I think is slightly misleading. You're either approved or you're not. That's step one for the FDA. And then in unapproved, you basically get placed into various different, well, we're on our way to approval. It's okay. Here's the public bulletin or holy cow, stay away from this one like BBC 157. So there is, I mean, there's no secret that there is a lot of money and there are a lot of consumers for peptides, period. I will just say that and acknowledge that because I think that's why there's a lot of pressure here. And I don't think consumers or doctors are thrilled that the FDA is saying what it's saying. I have no real input on that, but that doesn't mean that you can supersede the FDA or argue with science and say, well, best interests of the patient type arguments. And I also don't like the fact that there aren't any qualifiers on these videos. So I would have liked to have seen more of a reference to, well, if you want to know more, please visit the FDA website and then boom, boom, boom, boom, here is the current list because I think that would give a lot more context. How they actually got a hold of these peptide, compounded peptides, I'm just going to assume we're referencing BBC 157, but that may not be the case. That's my main question back to the video producers. So gray area, yellow area, I have a lot of questions, period. No respectable compounding pharmacy is compounding peptides. None. I know that it's illegal to do so. So the ones that these doctors are promoting are illegally obtained. It's not even a gray area. We both know that. So a couple of things to piggyback on what you said. So I do think, I hope I'm going to be wrong on this, but I do think you're going to see a wave of lawsuits and it's going to be a new avenue for plaintiff attorneys because once again, this thing going on for a year or two or more now and any problems that a person may have that's going to blame it on that peptide, no defense for that prescriber, none at all. And that's a dangerous spot to be in. And also you mentioned the medical board. So before our podcast today, I'm licensed in several states. I did contact some representatives of several medical boards and asked them specifically about non FDA approved peptides, for instance, once again, not standard of care. You're risking your medical license suspension or revoked or being revoked by doing so. I don't know why anybody works so hard to get their medical license and degree and then willing to take such a risk to lose it. It just makes no sense to me. But nonetheless, it is happening. And I can't say this enough. This is not anti-peptides. You know, GLP ones are wonderful. There's some wonderful peptides out there, FDA approved ones that are miracle drugs, but we're talking specifically about the non FDA approved ones that the FDA has put on the do not compound list. So let me read from your website real quick just so they can get the straightforward response. So in bold print, you say, can physicians prescribe non FDA approved drugs? And the answer is the short answer is no. Physicians may legally prescribe FDA approved drugs for either their approved uses or for other off label uses supported by medical judgment. But if a drug has never received FDA approval for any indication, it cannot be prescribed, dispensed or marketed for patient care. Doing so is considered the use of an unapproved new drug, which is prohibited under federal law and it can expose providers to FDA enforcement, state medical board discipline and liability risk. For providers, the critical takeaway is that administering or prescribing a substance classified as an unapproved new drug is a violation of federal law. This category includes many popular peptides and biologics marketed as research chemicals, which lack FDA approval for any therapeutic use. Engaging in such activity can be deemed unprofessional conduct by state medical boards and may attract federal scrutiny. I don't think you could have said it any more clearly in your in your in your website. I don't know what more we can really say on the subject. It took me a while to write it succinctly. So thank you. I appreciate it. It's not easy to to write it. It seems like it is. I'll go one step further to to your previous because I see a lot of the loopholes that people believe our exceptions is just treating yourself as a health coach. So I'm not using my medical license. I'm actually now, you know, magically relabeled myself quickly as a coach. I will say to this, I will say this. It would be like somebody saying, oh, I'm not an attorney. Now I'm just a layperson, but I'm still going to give legal advice, right? That the FDA looks down to the intended use and what is actually being done. They're not dumb. And on top of that, unlicensed practice of medicine, right, or unlicensed practice of acts is usually also, again, a criminal offense as opposed to a civil offense, which is bigger is a big deal damages money is one thing. Jail, a very different thing or the threat of jail. And so magically saying that you're a health coach or well, actually, I'm not prescribing. I'm just recommending or educating. You need to be very careful in your belief system that that is a legal loophole. Now you're out of the reign of the FDA now that you're not prescribing. So I just want to hammer that home too. I'm so glad you brought that up because what we're seeing in this space, especially are a lot of non medical trained individuals that want to use the word as coaching and you hire them for coaching. But what they're actually doing is an interpreting your labs, recommending dosage of different different hormones, for instance, or even other medications. And they're actually practicing medicine without a license. No matter how many disclaimers they have, no matter how many, you know, consent forms you may sign, they're not worth the paper they're written on. Once you take money, interpret labs, give medical advice, especially with dosage or adding or subtracting certain drugs, you're practicing medicine and it is a criminal offense. It's a felony in those states, not all. And so you're seeing that a lot presently in our space as well. Yeah. I've met a client of mine and not, you know, but I can comment in general terms. There was a matter where basically a doctor was using the health coach defense, we'll call it. And the medical board, when they received a complaint and that lawyer made the argument, well, actually, you don't have jurisdiction because he is not using his medical license in the medical board. Effectively, their response was, you're right, this is unlicensed practice of medicine. We're going to refer it to the Attorney General's office for criminal prosecution. So it was really a slap in the face when they tried to use a loophole. But just to, you know, put that point home. Yeah. So that's... So if you could look in the eye, any of my colleagues or, you know, other providers that are thinking about tomorrow starting to prescribe these non-FDA approved peptides, what would be the take home message that you would tell them? Yeah, don't do it unless you're willing to assume a lot of risk, put your license on the line and also put yourself and your practice and your business on the line. Hold tight, I would say. If this really is where you want to make your stand, then, you know, lobby the FDA, go dig into the science and, you know, go talk to representatives, but don't put your... As it currently stands, as of the recording of this episode, more guidance is needed unless you want to put your license on the line. That's what I tell my colleagues and patients as well every day, I say, look, I can't tell you which of these non-FDA approved peptides work or don't work. I'm not saying they work or they don't work. I don't have the medical studies in humans to tell you if they work or don't work and what population they would work in versus one that they wouldn't. So we just don't have the information, so it's not worth the medical license to do so. There are plenty of other ways that we can improve people's health without resorting to presently what are known as research chemicals. What patients do on their own, that's on them, but what these doctors are getting and what the patients are getting, there's really not any difference. They can claim, well, I've got it from a special pharmacy and it's much better than what you're going to buy. No, they're not. They're not. So, but I really appreciate you sharing your knowledge with us today and I know you're going to be doing some lectures coming up for Whirling Medical and that's going to be wonderful. I think that we as physicians sometimes we get busy in our practice. We don't always understand the consequences of our actions and especially when it comes to doing something like these peptides because if everybody's doing it, it must be okay. The attitude they take and they certainly should be a little more cautious when it comes to these drugs. I would agree.  I don't enjoy being the party pooper. I usually like to have the work around, the exception, the something that I can give a lot of the perspective clients in this category, but a lot of what that advice has centered around is, okay, what you're doing is technically illegal. How severe are the consequences and what does enforcement look like? Which effectively you're going against legal advice. We're approaching what I might consider a criminal defense attorney needed, but that's the value that I'm offering now. And a lot of people aren't thrilled with what I say, but largely I'm just regurgitating what federal law says, I'm breaking it down, read the blogs. I always welcome feedback. If I'll try and circle around the comments for this episode too. But I take a very conservative reading of the rules. I will also say just this last week, I had a, well, more of a, we'll just say perspective client, get a large amount of unapproved peptides effectively seized at customs. So they're sitting on a ship right now, they'll probably be destroyed and we'll see, I mean, what they need to do, it wouldn't be something that I would work with, but the FDA is starting to seize unapproved peptides that are coming in through China, Korea, wherever at the border. And that is starting to become a bigger enforcement priority. That again, is not a fun place to be because not only do you lose all the money that you use to try and work around the US pharmacies that are not allowed to do that, now you could eventually face federal prosecution. So just another thing that I remembered from last week. Well, let me reiterate, this is not anything anti-peptide. Those peptides that have to be approved are miracle and wonderful drugs. I am pro-peptide. What I'm trying to do is help protect our colleagues from themselves sometimes. And once again, if a person has a problem with it, like you say, it could be criminal, civil, and deal with your medical boards. So who wants to have to deal with that? Well, David, I cannot thank you enough for coming on and providing us with this valuable information that you've given us today. I just, I hope it helps so many providers or at least makes them think twice before they do anything to potentially harm not only their reputation, but once again, face any criminal, civil, or even board actions. So if people want to learn more, like I said, I refer your website to every one of my patients that ask about peptides now. So this is all correct information that Mr. Holt has on his website. Please go read it and you understand why I can't write you a prescription for PPC 127 or CJC-1295. So this is why I can't do it. And they all seem to be very understanding. I didn't know that doc. Nobody told me everybody's doing it. I see it all over the YouTube and TikTok and Instagram. And I said, I know, but I know you do. But nonetheless, David, if people want to get in touch with you or if they want to learn more, how can we go about doing that? It'd probably be my website. So that's the one with the blog you referenced. It's just a djholtlaw.com. And in the search function, or if you say djholtlaw, peptide, it'll prop the blogs that you want. It'll probably be the top two search results. I will note, we work with the healthcare providers, not the patients, but we always strive and we're happy to have anyone read our resources. And we do a really good job of keeping those updated as guidance comes out. And I'll just say, from a personal perspective, not an attorney perspective, I am very optimistic for what we could do with peptides in the health and wellness space, being a big wellness guy myself and benefiting quite a bit from supplements and working on my own health individually. So I am a big fan. I just, from a legal perspective, that's my allegiances to my license, which therefore is federal and state law. So happy to have people visit the blog. Well, I couldn't agree with you more. And once again, my perspective is that I want doctors to be able to prescribe it in the future whenever it's legal and we have all the studies and they're not putting their license at risk. So thank you once again for coming on. I think it's gonna be valuable information. It's been valuable information for me and I'm sure it's gonna be for many others. So thank you once again. Thank you, appreciate it.

=== FILE: Doctor's Favorite Supplements, Peptides, Daily Tadalafil and HCG on TRT [WnDwLxn4_pw].txt ===

 B12 supplements. I'm not a huge supplement guy. The first thing I recommend is a complex B vitamin. I don't have any specific brand that I promote, but there's some evidence that androgens can increase your homocysteine levels, so B12 can help with that. And it's a super safe and super cheap supplement, so for me, that's one I recommend. Creatine, monohydrate, it's effective, maybe even latest evidence that might even improve your cognitive function if you use higher than 5 grams a day, I think at 10, maybe even higher than that. That's one of those things, is it going to change your life if you start taking creatine? No, but beneficial, effective, I think. Another supplement that I recommend to some patients, particularly because I have a lot of obese guys, is a supplement called HMB hydroxy beta methylbutyrate. And it's a supplement that reduces muscle protein breakdown while they're in a calorie deficit, which they usually are. So sometimes I'll recommend that. Macarote extract I'll recommend because it has proven effects on libido and sex drive. Sometimes L-carnitine, I will prescribe actually to patients, specifically with metabolic syndrome. And why? Because there's evidence that L-carnitine can help with the metabolic, what's called metabolic inflexibility. So when you have the obesity that I'm talking about, you usually have a dysfunction in your liver and fat cells. They develop metabolic inflexibility, which means they can't efficiently switch from burning sugar to burning fatty acids. It also happens in your testes, by the way, which is a huge problem because if you can't burn fatty acids, you can't make testosterone. So the L-carnitine actually helps in the process of alleviating the congestion in mitochondria. That's a very lay person's way of saying it. And the patients that benefit the most, I think, are the ones with very high C-reactive protein levels. So if you search L-carnitine, C-reactive protein metabolic syndrome, there's a few studies showing L-carnitine can help with that. But as far as supplements go, that's pretty much it. And everything's cheap, and I don't sell anything, any of those things directly. So beyond that, not many supplements that I would recommend. You asked me about peptides. So there are some patients that are interested in peptides, and I do sometimes use Tessa-Morlin. It's been a while since I've used it. But Tessa-Morlin does reduce your visceral fat, and probably faster than testosterone does. There's some questions about how durable the effect of Tessa-Morlin is. For example, if you go off of it, do you regain what you lost? Some studies seem to suggest that. But yeah, that's as far as ancillaries. And then obviously I use a lot of somaglutide, terzapatide. I use that like crazy. But that's not a supplement. That would just be another drug. Cialis, we use like... Cialis is virtually a supplement now. I live a lot of times in Latin America, and you can just go buy Cialis over the county. So if you consider Cialis a supplement, low dose Cialis is also very common. So that's a five milligram per dollar fill daily. Yep. Very safe. Beneficial, not only just for your erectile... Well, let's start with a rectile function. It's very good because even if you have moderate, mild erectile dysfunction, it's very important not to ignore that because the penile tissue, again, to put things in lay terms, I'm going to say it's a muscle, not a muscle, but if you just ignore it, it tends to get worse. So if you don't have strong erections regularly and you go that way for a long time, you can actually worsen the dysfunction. So I think it's important to treat early. And the other thing is Cialis has other benefits. There's ergogenic benefits, meaning it can increase hyperemia to your skeletal muscle while you're working out. So that may have anabolic benefits. It has mitochondrial effects. So there's some evidence that it can... That it has certain anti-aging properties, things like that. So, and it's very safe. Very few people have side effects from low dose Cialis. And I mean, I don't put everybody on it, you know, but if they even say they have a minor degree of EDM, it's pretty slam dunk, especially now that it's so cheap too. And then HCG, we use for fertility presby... We didn't talk about that, but that's another thing someone asked about it. We use a lot of HCG because that helps preserve your fertility in most cases. I mean, that's not 100% guaranteed, but the vast majority of men who start injectable testosterone, who also take 500 IUs of HCG the other day, will maintain a fertility level of sperm counts, maybe even some will use 250 every other day at the risk of increasing side effects, of course. I guess most men over 40, 45, they don't care so much about fertility anymore. They don't care about their fertility, but you know what some of them do care about is their testicular volume. So they don't like the fact that they get atrophy on the testosterone or they're put in late terms, their balls shrink. So for those guys, yeah, I'll still give them HCG, like if it's really important to them. But most people don't care. You know, we all care about different things, you know, I always mess with my guy. I mean, are they really that smaller than they used to be? But I, you know, I give my guys a hard time. Yeah, I don't care about that. I then don't care about my hair that I lost away before TRT. So yeah, yeah, I mean, that's good. I'm fighting a losing battle, unfortunately, but it is what it is. I got a good ball. You're one of the guys that looks you have a good you have a good face for baldness. I think if I was bald, I'd look like a creature from the black loom, but there are guys that can pull it off good. So you're one of them, maybe. That was good. Yeah. Anyway, you get used to it. Yeah.

=== FILE: High Hematocrit (57%) on TRT – Blood Donation Required？ Dr. Jordan Grant Debunks the Clot Fear [XFTbJ6LBIL0].txt ===

 amlodipine, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin There's no reason for that four years to Maddox 18s upper 50s that's very common with guys on TRT and You know, I just I was that guy I had a hemoglobin in 18s and a hematocrit 57 58. I felt fine And I didn't have any strokes or blood clots or anything like that Like so all these people making claims about being causative just that you're not seeing that in reality You can you can theoretically think about that stuff all you want and say well this could mechanism It's like no it doesn't matter I can come up with any explanation for it, but it doesn't matter if it's not true So but back to your question with the doctors Yeah, that's gonna come down to the personality of the doctor and how comfortable you are I mean some people want to literally joust with their doctors and be like oh you've claimed that well Give me backup for it show me studies and they're not gonna do that Those doctors are not gonna go look up most of them now some might if they're open-minded and I go oh, you know That's a good point. I don't actually know that let me go look into it a little bit Most won't do that even if they do go look into it They won't know how to look into it They'll just go find some abstracts and read them out and some correlative studies and just call it as fat So you you got to find the right provider if you really want it It's gonna look deeper in these things in an open-minded way and kind of sometimes meets you in the middle on these things because it really is about that in the end but They they have their boundaries too and that's fine if you don't if they're set on their boundaries It's not right for us to push try to push them over those boundaries if they're not comfortable Just like guys do with me if they're like no I you need a prescribing aromatase inhibitor I'm like you need to find another doctor because that's my boundary I am not going to do it So either you live without it or you do it on your own or you go find somebody and that's okay Like we don't all have to agree and I don't want people paying me who don't agree with my philosophy on things, right? Like that's that's the beauty of the market and choices is that way there's so many different ways So yeah find somebody if you can who's like minded But if you can find somebody who's just cool and they're like they're just throwing that out There's a recommendation, but they're not like Stickler about it. That's probably fine too exactly You

=== FILE: How Easy is it to Get TRT ？ [VcY2KNg1kQQ].txt ===

 how easy is it to get TRT? Or maybe how can I get my doctor to prescribe me TRT? How do I get it in general? Right, yeah, it should be easier than it is. And a lot of people get shut down pretty quick. So, you know, in standard medicine, you go to your primary care doctor, there's a couple of things. One, sometimes they just don't know a lot about it. And then if they do know a lot about it, you have to, you know, have them be willing to actually prescribe this stuff. So one, you have to get them to run the test in the first place. That's your first hurdle. So you go to your primary care doctor. Why do you want to run this test in the first place? If you're lucky, they run the test. And now you get your levels back. They look at these levels, they say, hey, look at this, it's in normal range, or oh, it's just below normal range, that's close enough, you're getting old, don't worry about it. The next barrier there is even if they did check a total testosterone, they probably didn't get a free testosterone. Whether that's done directly or more ideally, they did calculate it by getting some other lab numbers like an SHBG to kind of calculate that number. Because that number is the more important number and the one that's most correlated with symptoms. That's the number you want to see. So you could have a normal looking total testosterone, where in the meantime, your free testosterone is falling in the background and probably is as you're aging. It really does for everyone. As your SHBG goes up, it binds up that total testosterone. So you have all these factors to get past. And now a lot of times the bottom line is your primary care doctor won't or can't do it. And it's just not gonna happen. Even if you do get them to do it, the chances of him giving you a good protocol are pretty terrible. I hear from guys daily telling me about these ridiculous things where their doctor's giving them some low, super low dose. It's not even enough to overcome their own natural low levels that they've gotten to. Or it's an amount that's given to someone frequently. It's just not gonna be effective. Maybe they'll feel good for a few days. Like they're getting a shot once every two weeks, that kind of thing. Then they report back to their doctor. They're not feeling great. The primary care doctor says, well, I guess it doesn't work for you. They quit and go away. So the bottom line is, if you find someone, primary care doctor who's really into this kind of thing and knows what they're doing and interested in helping you with it, it might work. But for the most part, you better off going to a place that specializes in this kind of thing. And there's many clinics around that do this sort of thing. That's the reason why it's become such a big thing. There's a big gap in the standard medicine as far as that goes. Yeah, you guys in the United States actually are very lucky because you have a lot of men's health clinics, DRT clinics here in Europe. You really have to try hard to find one. Sure, sure. And I'll mention too, I mean, like anything else, any other business or anything else you run into in life, there's gonna be varying qualities there too. So really that the place you're talking to, ask the right questions, go on a group like yours and see what the basics are and come in as an informed consumer. You can avoid the setback you get from having some bad treatment for years before you finally get it straight. So it's possible, it definitely takes some legwork on the, by the consumer. And unfortunately, it's not as easy as just talking to your primary care doctor about it most of the time.

=== FILE: How to manage low testosterone in young men [loDfl2icBC8].txt ===

 how do you handle younger guys 18 to 30 with low T symptoms? Do you try to jump start with HCG, etc., or straight to TRT? What about when they're concerned about future fertility? Yeah, good question. Now, ACG is not a jump start because it shuts down their natural production just like testosterone, so there's no point in doing that. I don't like the whole put you on Novodextrochloromide for a trial period. I mean, if they've been on anabolic, it might be reasonable if they want to do that. If they hadn't done a PCT, I don't think PCTs are even necessary, but it's a mental game with people. So, I have done that with a couple guys in the past. I had like a 17-year-old come to see me when we were a urologist. His testosterone was like 20, so you already know, you know, and he'd been taking SARMs. And he didn't want to start TRT, so I'm like, okay, let's try two months at Tamoxifen, try to just see if it ramps things up, and then you got to come off of it to see if it remains. And it did. He may rebound it anyway without that though. That's the thing, but they were freaking out at the time. So, it's sort of a mental insurance thing to do the PCT. I like Tamoxifen over cloma just because it's it's better tolerated from a side effect standpoint. But we just have a conversation. If it's an 18-year-old, 20-year-old, it depends on their maturity level, depends on their lifestyle. A lot of these guys are actually very mature for their age. They've already been through the rabbit trail of testing, and then they end up coming to me at the end. You know, you're not going to find just, for somebody like me who's a cash pay clinic, most 18-19-year-olds aren't going to want to come pay that anyway. So, if they're coming to me, they probably have already been put through the ringer with traditional doctors and testing and been tried on things already that didn't work. And I've had that from a lot of guys who to maintain fertility were put on freaking letrasol, crashed their estradiol, they feel like crap, they can't get an erection, and oh, their testosterone is now 700. Who gives a crap? They feel terrible. So, what we do is we talk about testosterone, we talk about the fertility potential risk. It's not a given. Again, we're back to expectation setting and informed consent. And once we go through all that, we just have a discussion about what they want to do. And if they do want to pursue TRT, I think a trial of TRT is fine. I like cream better for that purpose because it's in your system quick. It's also out quick. So, if they end up not getting any benefit after two or three months, it's out. They're they're not going to be any long term, probably harm and probably not from injections either for that matter. But we talk about fertility. For those guys that are that young and they don't have kids and they want to have kids, we do an upfront semen analysis because I want to know what their starting baseline is. Because what if they're starting with a zero sperm count? Well, if they don't know that and then they get a test six months down the road on TRT and then they get their zero, what do they do? They blame the TRT when it may not have been the T most. A lot of guys these days have very low sperm counts just at baseline. So, I have them check a semen analysis up front. I tell them to freeze the sperm just as an insurance policy unless they know for a fact they would never do in vitro. But most guys at 18 don't know that. And so I say freeze the sperm. That way you've just got it on hand in case. And then we monitor down the road and if they want to go on 8cg alongside the TRT, we still space that out. I don't do it up front because I don't want two variables at once. I don't know that 8cg the whole time is necessary versus just pulsing it in when needed with fsh if their sperm counts go to zero. There's no good way to know that. I know Dave Lee's talked about that too. Again, I go to the patient comfort level is what matters for me. If they feel better mentally going, no, I just want to take it every day or every whatever. I want to take it alongside my TRT. That's fine. We still got to monitor semen analysis either way, you know. And if that starts tanking, then we talk about adding in follicle stimulating hormone. And for now that's available. There's a compounding pharmacy making it that's affordable. If that goes away, I don't know what we're going to do. I'll probably be advising them to seek out HMG from India to be honest with you because that's still better than coming off and getting on a romeitase inhibitor or clomid or any of that because you just feel like dog crap.

=== FILE: The Hidden TRT Side Effects Clinics Don't Want You to Know [Y96vjBU9jLE].txt ===

 what are some of the most common side effects you see on guys starting TRT? Is that high blood pressure, anxiety? I don't know. The major side effects of TRT, number one, you can't really have this discussion without mentioning it as infertility. Most men, especially on injectable testosterone, but even on compounded creams, their sperm counts will go way down. A lot of them will develop what's called azuspermia, meaning they won't have really... They'll be infertile, okay. Which is largely reversible, by the way, and treatable and preventable with other medications, but that is the most common side effect, is some degree of infertility. Another side effect is edema, or what we call water retention. The water retention that comes with testosterone and other androgens is quite annoying because from what I can tell, it's not always like a gravity-dependent thing. A lot of people, after they work all day, they notice that their legs are swollen. They develop what's called pitting edema, so they press on their ankle bone. They'll see an indentation. That's an indication of a lot of water in your extracellular space, so to speak. So testosterone can worsen that, but testosterone even can do things like bloat your face, you know, make you get water retention in your face. And we don't know all the reasons why testosterone does that. If you look in textbooks, they'll mention a bunch of different mechanisms that have never been proven. So that is a symptom, a potential symptom. Cognitive symptoms, yes, about anxiety. The thing we see most commonly is what we would say is mood-lability, which is not necessarily anxiety or depression, but moods that fluctuate rapidly, okay. So that could mean for certain patients they have much more anxiety. That could mean for some patients they experience a degree of euphoria. Actually, both of those are side effects. It's not good to get either of them, but can it happen? It can and it does happen. Sexual dysfunction can be a transient side effect to people starting testosterone. They can feel like their libidos lower or that it's good some days, bad some days. That typically resolves after three months. Same with any transient erectile function issues. Increased red blood cells, if you want to call that a side effect, obviously that happens in many patients. Acne definitely can be worsened by androgens. Testosterone can worsen sleep apnea too if it's untreated. It causes a component of central apnea. So actually technically it's unclear whether it actually worsens the obstructive component of the apnea, meaning how many times you have like hypopnic episodes where you don't fully breathe, you know, you don't get a full oxygenated breath, I guess, to be the way to say it. But it does cause a temporary worsening of your overall sleep architecture by causing a central sleep apnea component. And in two studies that effect goes away after about or is undetectable after about 18 months. And then the last thing is, well, there's two more things. Worsening male pattern hair loss, never really been proven that testosterone worsens that. In theory it could though, because male pattern hair loss is at least in very large part of DHT driven process. And remember from testosterone you get estradiol, you get DHT. So maybe by raising your DHT levels that can worsen your hair loss. What I'll say is that some men actually grow hair on testosterone on their scalp. So minority, but some do. There's a very complex relationship between low testosterone and scalp levels of hormones, such that some men, most men I would say won't really affect things like you're going to lose your hair anyway just because of your genetics. If you don't do anything about it, some men maybe it accelerates it, some actually grow hair weirdly and weirdly or not. The last thing is gynecomastia. Gynecomastia is where you get glandular breast tissue under your nipple and specifically under your nipple. Usually it's nodule that you can feel it's like mobile and it's often very painful too. So it's not like my, you know, my, I have what I call bitch tits or whatever. It's really, it's a glandular breast tissue that you can feel and it's like present there. You can even detect it on mammography or cut it out in surgery. So, and that's potential. Those are all the common side effects.

=== FILE: Why I Switched to Daily Microdosing TRT After 40 Years – Dr. Jeffrey Ruterbusch Reveals All [PvHBY-7UpbI].txt ===

 so welcome back to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel and we have back with us as a guest Dr. Jeffrey Rutterbusch, welcome back Jeffrey. Well, thanks so much for having me back, Steven. You're very welcome. So let's talk today about daily micro dosing testosterone for TRT. So you wrote me that you have some new experiences with it that you wanted to share. Well, yes, you know, throughout my practice, it's evolved. It's always evolving. And when you think about it, you know, God doesn't have our testicles, secret testosterone, once a week, twice a week, thrice a week. It's a daily diurnal pattern. And so I got to think about that. I said, well, let's try to mimic our daily physiological dosing as best as we can. So and I heard about it. Some friends of mine were doing it. So every morning now, I have not only myself, but I have my patients now, either do it's a very small amount. I've been doing daily doses. Currently, my regimen now is 20 milligrams, which is 0.1 ml every morning. So that's 140 milligrams per week. Now, that may not seem like a lot, but even when I'm on 20 milligrams a week. Now, my trough, given that protocol would be had my bloods drawn the morning before I did that 20 milligrams. So I've done that several times over the past year. And even at 140 milligrams per week, 20 milligrams per day, my testosterone is still greater than 1500. I even tried after I'd injected 20 milligrams one day, I waited three days where I got my lab drawn. I figured I trough out big time. I was still greater than 1500 three days out after only 20 milligrams. So given that, I had I'm recommending all my patients to micro dose. And I may sound like a nuisance, but tell you something, 0.1 ml, as you know, Stephen, is very, very small bit. It's just a little bit. So what I do is after I inject and given that volume, you can do that I am or sub cube is painless. But what I do is every time I inject myself, the very first thing I do is put my needle back into my testosterone. And rather than hold it because it takes a while. It's this syrupy and a very thin needle, but I don't hold it. I just go ahead and put it in. I have this old hydrogen peroxide bottle that has a great amount. I can put the needle and test it also right in it, put it next to my sink while I'm brushing my teeth or washing my face or whatever. And actually two minutes, it's already filled up. So I just take it out, set it for the point one ml, cap it off. So it's ready for the next day. My point is, yes, you have to do it more often, but given such a small volume, it doesn't take very long. Get point one in it, point one ml drawn up. That's how we do it now. 20 milligrams a day. I've even had some people use 10 milligrams per day. And they're still greater than 1200, two days out. But you remember, our body only naturally produces four to seven milligrams per day. So if you take that range four to seven, now the low end of that would be four times seven, 28 milligrams testosterone per week. The high end would be 49. That way between 28 and 49 milligrams per week is what our body produces naturally. So given that 20 milligrams a day is still greater than that. But you get, you have a little bit of weight there from the ester. But I just feel that micro dosing as close to mimicking our own God given pulses is the best way to go. And given that also, I don't have, you know, everybody's worried about their estrogen. We have to deal with that. I don't even measure anymore. But some of my patients come in to worry about their estrogen. I have found a micro dosing. It doesn't really elevate estrogen enough to where people even are concerned about it. I don't have to allay their fears about their estrogen causing them symptoms. So I have to worry about that. No, I don't have to worry about so much about SABG more. Because if I'm mimicking our normal daily pulses, whether a guy's got a low SABG or a higher SABG, I don't have to worry about it. I'm just doing daily doses. So I just, I mimic what God has done for us naturally. And given that, I feel like I'm doing the patient justice. I have to worry about supra physiological doses causing anything unusual. And since I started that over a year ago for all my patients, the patients like it. I've had very few complaints about it. Everybody feels more dialed in. And so not only am I total testosterone is where I like them to be, but my free testosterone are where I think it should be somewhere between 20 and 30 nanograms per deciliter. But I fit most of my men feel better if I get their free testosterone to be 20 above 25. And sometimes 35 or 40. And they're all dialing at that. So micro dosing, even though it's a little more cumbersome, it's really not once you get used to it. Takes less time to do that and brushing your teeth. So I recommend everybody. So all my patients now are micro dosing and they're much, much happier with it. But since you're dosing daily, does the ester still matter? Can you use propionate or do you still use sipionate? Sipionate, you can use propionate and antate. So given the ester and the weight of the esters, I just find that I can use any, some people even use the sustenant, which has three esters. And they do 20 milligrams of that and they feel wonderful. I've had so few complaints other than, oh, doc, I got to do it every day. But once they get used to it, it's so nominal. It's so effortless. It's pain free. And all your patients are agreeing to do that daily? Do they also come from twice a week? They're all in agreement. But if I can, if I, you know, I talked to them about the basic physiology involved with it, how it's replicated guys, normal pulses. Many, I haven't gotten them all to convert to it yet. Because some are happy on their twice a week dosing. But I've gotten probably 80% of my patients now over time on the daily 20 milligrams or less of micro dose. But how can that be mimicking the normal daily rhythm with these esters? They stay in your blood for a longer time. Yeah, well, they do. And that's why I'm still working on it. That's why when I did my blood most recently, and I checked my blood levels three days out after 20 milligrams, it was still rare than 1500. But a bottom line, remember, I'm treating people. So I say, how you feel? I feel great. So I don't care what their numbers are. I find the secondary ruthocytosis is much more easily managed on these smaller doses. And that's another thing too, you know, people don't hate, don't hate donating blood. You know, we don't, we know you don't have to, but it's good for you in the community to do so. I still donate blood, but every four months. Are hematocrites lower doing daily dosing? Yes. Yes. Now, I still have, you know, some people still respond. Some people, some people get a secondary ruthocytosis, no matter what dose you use. But I still find out that on these smaller micro dose, daily micro dosing, the amount of secondary ruthocytosis is greatly minimized. We heard the drawbacks. We heard the many benefits, maybe. And also, yeah, I think you just must convince the man to start doing it daily. And once they experience it, going along with it. Every patient that I've talked into converting from once a week, twice a week, twice a week, to daily, they've all come, I've gotten great feedback. I've never got such poor positive feedback from a certain, remember, I've been doing this for over 40 years. So I've had a lot of feedback on all these protocols, but I've never had, in general, a greater positive feedback rate on a dosing technique with both clients and outcome than this one. Yeah, awesome. Thanks for sharing.

=== FILE: ＂I Want to Fix It Naturally＂ – How to Explain TRT to Skeptical Older Men (Mike Belkin) [1cPcEUB1kxo].txt ===

 how do I explain the benefits or convince my older relative, for example, my father, to start TRT, because it was a friend of mine actually who said my father would really benefit from TRT, but he does not want to start off with that, and he told me, well, I'll just overcome low testosterone naturally. So what to say to that older relative? Yeah, that's a great question. And it's one I come across quite a bit too, right? Because a lot of folks are resistant to taking medication in general. They feel like maybe they're giving up or like, hey, my hormones are failing, I'm less of a man for this kind of thing, I want to try to do it myself, how can I get it back naturally? And I mean, things decline with age is kind of the way it goes. I mean, nature has kind of had its way with us and did what it needs from us. But evolutionary, we're still going to be around for a while. So we're done doing what nature wants us to do, but we might have another 40 years left on this planet. So make the mess that extra time you have left. Everyone needs their own buy-in for this kind of thing. So trying to sell anyone at anything can be tough. So everyone will end up with their own kind of thing that will get them to do what they want to do. For some older guys, it means they want to be able to have more energy to do the things they used to do to either spend time with their grandkids or put it back into their business or so they can travel. But in general, I mean, I think it's one of the big pillars about just staying healthy as you age, right? I mean, you want to stay in good health in general. You want to keep a good amount of muscle mass, you want to keep your body fat down, you want to keep your exercise tolerance up. And testosterone and hormone replacement in general can really aid that. And it's a big help. So it can be a tricky thing. I think it makes sense for everyone to check their levels. Ideally, you would have had some levels checked earlier on in life too. So now you can check them and see how they've actually declined. But yeah, I think a lot of our older relatives could benefit from that kind of talk without a doubt.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.379205Z ===
