Hi and welcome back to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel. Today I wanted to go over some recent blood results and I want to talk about the differences between the 20% testosterone cream on a liposomaal base versus the HRT base. Yes, I made some recent changes to my TRT protocol. First, let's go over the blood results that matter. Of course, when you're on TRT, the LH and the FSH are very low to zero. As you can see, my radial, my E2 is 47 nanogs per liter, which wasn't two plus in this lab. The normal range for E2 is 15 to 32. But of course, we're not worried. We're on TRT. We have a highend normal not super physiological testosterone level. So, in relationship to that, we have a normal high-end E2. As you can see, my SHBG is 18.2 nanomles per liter and my total testosterone is 1314.5 nanogs per diliter. Two pluses and in red again because the normal ranges in this lab are now between 220 and 750 nanogs per diliter. The normal lab ranges of total testosterone keep going down each year because these are just the average numbers in the mean sick and obese population. In order to calculate the free testosterone, we also need the albumin. And as you can see, my albumin is 44.2 g per liter. When I put the album in the SHBG and the total testosterone in this free calculator, we get a free testosterone of 41.9 per dliter. But now here's the important part. As you might know, I have been using the 20% compounded testosterone cream since 2017. And this cream has always been on the liposomaal base. Because it seemed I was a bad absorber of the testosterone in that base, I needed three clicks in the morning and three clicks in the evening with the topic system. That's twice 150 mg per day. I've always bought my testosterone cream from NPLABs. And only recently, a few months ago, NPLABS offers the possibility to have the compounded testosterone cream in an HRT base. Since I heard from many experts like Dave Lee that the cream in an HRT base gets absorbed much better, I wanted to try this out for myself. And indeed, these numbers that I just presented to you are still the same numbers I had before with the liposumal base two times three clicks per day. But now these numbers are with the HRT base with only two clicks in the morning and two clicks in the evening. So, I diminished my dose of TRT from 300 mg per day to 200 milligs per day and I get the same numbers as before and I feel exactly the same as before. So, for me personally, the switch from liposumal base to HRT base is a big improvement since I will need much less cream than before. I just want to share that with you. And just one funny last add-on, like you can see here, my vitamin D is 62.3 nanogs per milll. And again, it's in the red with two pluses. Wo, very dangerous. But then again, when you read the legend, they write optimally, you have between 40 and 100 nanogs per milll. But still, with a 62 right in the middle of that range, they put it in red with two pluses. And they also write toxic when it's more than 100 nanogs per milll. Anyway, I get this 62 level taking 10,000 I use per day for years. I'm not worried about these two plus signs and red because even in the legends of this lab, it says optimally between 40 and 100 nanogs per milliliter. They just want, as always, they just want us to be afraid of high numbers of vitamin D, optimalized numbers of vitamin D. Again, I thought this was just a funny add-on. So, there's a link in the description to order your testosterone cream, 20% in an HRT base with NPAPS. They ship worldwide. Use the link in the description. Thank you and see you next time. Hey everybody.