Should men on TRT take NAC, Knack or an acetylcyain? I really like NAC and this is why Dave probably recommended this question uh because we have talked about that. Uh I like it because I think it's a very versatile supplement and there's so many supplements out there that you know you question well should I be taking this for X reason? Um, and you know, if you can only take five or six things and you don't want to take 150 pills a day, you kind of have to whittle down to what's going to hit the most benefits for the least uh least amount of resistance, I think. So, NAC is a precursor to glutathione, which is a master antioxidant. It has a lot of potential benefits in the body from the glutathione properties. Um, specifically for someone who's on TRT, the reason why they might be interested in supplementing this is for exercise benefits. It can be beneficial for exercise endurance, decreasing um, time to fatigue with exercise. Um, it's an antioxidant, so has those benefits on the recovery pathways. Um, also the secondary thing I would think about would be for liver health. That's probably the first thing I think about, but maybe the secondary thing the patient would think about. Um, liver detoxification. Um, this is an interesting supplement because it is an over-the-counter supplement, but is also used as a medication for certain purposes. Um, so NAC is used IV to um prevent liver necrosis when someone has overdosed on Tylenol. So that tells you how powerful this actually can be. Um, now it's used in really high dosing IV to do that in, you know, kind of a one um, uh, one infusion situation versus if you're talking about for the fat buildup around the liver or detoxifying from heavy metals or other things, um, you're going to be taking you can use an oral supplement. Usually 600 to,200 milligrams a day is the dosing that I would use for most cases. um 600 milligrams I think is a good just daily dosing um for more of the preventative or um um optimization strategies and then you might get into that 600 milligrams twice a day if you really have some um fatty liver or other issues that you need to take more of. And uh will one feel the effects? Can can you feel the benefits? Good question. So, I I don't think most people feel a whole lot from taking Knack. Um, you know, if you're taking too much, you might get some GI distress. So, that's one way of knowing that that um to to not push that too hard. Um, I think that you can maybe see more benefits on the exercise and you would feel that and on immune system. So, um, you know, specifically for immune health, a lot of people will take it as a preventative measure for during cold and flu season. Um, it's been shown to lessen the time that people are down with influenza if they do get influenza or are uh decrease the symptoms associated with influenza. So, that's why I personally take it is for the immune system benefits. I started taking it during the COVID flu period. Yeah. Yeah. that kind of had a resurgence at that time I think. Yeah. Yeah. Me too. Um All right. So yeah, you al already answered the side effect bit. So gastrointestinal discomfort if you take too much. Yeah. Um and you know just kind of thinking about those other benefits on the immune system. You know the other thing you could feel from it would be um using it as a mucalytic. So if you're congested, it can be helpful for that. And that's another approved use that um they use a p uh for actual um health conditions like cystic fibrosis um to help with clearing the mucus. Um and I think there at one point was a nebulized version of it for that and for COPD as well. So again, using it more orally as a supplement, you could potentially see those benefits with allergies um or other congestion going on. Hey,