Is the pain relieving effect of nandrallone mediated by other mechanisms other than its role as a progesterine? I.e. does it actually does it have any kind of unique opioid or anti-inflammatory functions outside of just increasing fluid in the joint? There's no question that does have a significant joint pain rate. One of them that I don't know if this is the reason or not that it increases synovial fluid. Even though it's not equal, I tend to start by reducing the testosterone dose by about 50 60 millig and then in and then adding nandulone at 60 millig and then it's about the same thing we always do. Titrate the dose of none up if necessary to ease the joint pain. I think one of the main things that people are so worried about estrogen I don't think it they need to be. So then I was going to go into another one of my methodologies that has worked really well for me over the decades with dealing with estrogen is the use of andone. So now what I can do is I can pull your testosterone dose back to whatever does not cause an estrogenic side effect. Different studies that say there that nandrulin converts to zero to 20 20% to estradile that testosterone does. I have found that it actually probably is closer to zero. So what I can do is just is give people testosterone at a dose that doesn't cause estrogenic side effects. But us sometimes for people who are sensitive that's not enough testosterone. They need more androgens in their blood. They need more androgen receptor agonization. So now we can just pop mandulin on top of that and there's no estrogenic side effects and then people do really well on that. I mean do you notice the same issue and and what do you think about about that? Yeah. So, I'll I'll kind of share all my tricks of the trade and and absolutely I'd be I'd be very happy if you steal that and any others because I think one thing that we both have in common is we're both trying to educate as much as possible in this in this space because my goal is if we can get as many people with properly optimized testosterone protocols as possible all over the world that and I can only see so many people a day before my eyes start to bleed from the computer screen. I'd like to ask you a bunch of stuff about Nangelone that um I've been wanting to ask someone for a long time, but I haven't met anyone who's really clued into it in terms of not just being like, "Oh yeah, when you give it to someone this happens in terms of being like what's actually happening and why, but in terms of the the the stuff that you brought up there that the the really important point that you brought up is that a lot of the problems that people have when they start TRT is because your hormones went from here to here really really quick. Um, and I like to mitigate that by kind of coming in with a a dose that I refer to like, okay, we're going to start you off with like a single shot cappuccino, then we'll move it up to like a double shot flat wide, and then we're going to move it up to a triple espresso. We're not just going to go straight for the triple espresso. Yeah. Um, so dose titration can be really important. But when I started TRT almost a decade ago, and this was, you know, I think Jay Campbell had just put his first book out. There was maybe the Excel Mail forum had started, but there was nothing on YouTube. And that's one of the reasons I got into making content because I just tried to make what I was looking for many years ago. But at least the benefit of that was that there wasn't a whole bunch of stuff that you could just go down like doom scrolling and just screw yourself up with anxiety with. You just kind of had to like trust the process. And my doctor said to me when I started my protocol and granted it it it was 250 milligrams every 10 days with uh half a milligram of rumex twice a week and and HCG which was not a good place to start but what he did say in his defense is he goes when you start your treatment if you have any side effects at your first followup we'll talk about it and he was basically saying that this is going to be an adjustment phase And at the moment I see a lot of guys, they become hyperfixated with every sensation in their body and they immediately have a panic anxiety response to it. And this can often lead them to making, you know, emotional responses or derailing the protocol or um really creating some issues. But I like to tell them, I'm like, look, this is going to be puberty 2.0. Like this is going to be another hormone process, but now you're an adult with responsibilities. you've got, you know, all the information in the world in the palm of your hand. This can really go haywire if you're not prepared to go through some change. And sometimes guys will freak out and they'll go, "Oh, this is changing. This is changing. This is changing." And I'm going, "Well, maybe you should frame this as, well, at least something's happening. I mean, if nothing was changing, then it wouldn't be working." So, you kind of got to pick something, right? But it's, look, it's exactly what you said. A lot of the estrogen issues that people are having when they're starting treatment that they call estrogen issues is part of the body getting with the program. There's a whole bunch of downstream enzyatic stuff that has to reregulate and change and that process you're going to inhabit that and that that's going to be tricky. But the other thing that I found and one of the and and I'm sure you're the same. One of the the best things about working with so many people for so long is that you learn a bunch of stuff from just basically you you can show me a study saying the sky is green. I'm outside all day every day. It's blue. Um and this kind of stuff we learn from TRT is that we're going I'm I'm in the trenches all the time. But one thing that's been a real blessing for me is as you know some some co-founders have have helped uh set up clinics that I'm very heavily involved with. I end up seeing you know 10 to 20 times more people per week because I'm doing asynchronous reviews of the blood work. So I'm seeing huge volumes now and then trends become a lot more apparent because you're seeing a a a client's blood work every five minutes not every 20 or 30 minutes. Yeah. And the thing that I find really interesting and and the way that I've designed our questionnaires for, you know, follow-ups and feedback so that we can make some succinct recommendations for their conversation with the doctor is around lifestyle factors. And if I had to correlate two variables almost perfectly, it would be alcohol consumption and side effects at 12 weeks. Um, and then if I had to bring a couple of other variables into that equation, it's excess body fat and terrible diet. And the issue that I think people are having like, and if you go on Reddit, the problem is that you can see all these genetic overromatizers who don't have profile pictures. I think if they had profile pictures, very quickly work out that this is a body fat problem. Um, or an alcohol problem. I mean, how many of those guys would have a beer in their hand in their photos? So, it's it can sometimes be a very tricky thing to change these habits because a lot of these habits are maladaptive coping mechanisms from people feeling terrible for a long time and they're now having to, you know, kind of recognize and sometimes learn the hard way that this stuff's not serving them anymore. But I think that outside of protocols being terrible, like assuming that we're dealing with frequent injections and and you know, decent doses of testosterone, I think that half of the side effects come from the body adjusting to the protocol. And the other half come from the systemic inflammation from poor diet and lifestyle factors as well as poor liver function, chronic pain, chronic inflammation, all of these things together. And then some these guys I think are a real challenge because one of the problems where you know things kind of the pendulum swings too far in each direction is people go oh well it's it's not an estrogen issue and it's going okay but it is an issue like there's there's still a problem here we need to fix this. So if we're not going to use aromatase inhibitors aren't the solution it's like there has to still be a solution otherwise you just got a problem. So, I think that's where it becomes case by case and I think that it can be a matter of manipulating the protocol, making sure there's not things like hypothyroidism going on. Um, I've never used an angelone for something like this. I'm very curious about that. But also for me, it's with my health coaching background, it's going, hey, we need to change the habits. And sometimes it can be, you know, prescribing things like glutathione injections, uh, giving people melatonin at night to help with sleep and to help modulate, you know, inflammation and estrogen receptor availability. All of these things can be really helpful. But ultimately, it comes down to going if you are putting the healthy amount of testosterone into a healthy man at a frequency that at least mimics natural production as closely as possible. It shouldn't cause problems. it should make you healthy and that's just how the works. So, I'd like to kind of hijack the conversation a little bit like we spoke about before. I I've always been curious about Nangalone and I was curious about it originally because I'm a big fan, not a cult follower, but I'm a fan of Dr. Ray Pete's work. Um, and I make that distinction very importantly and he was very big on progesterone. Um, so I was always very interested in Nandrallone in terms of it being this, you know, anabolic compound that also had this progesterone or progesterine-like effect. And the thing that I've never been able to understand and I've looked at the research and the research was it was mentioning stuff but it wasn't very clear. So what I'd be curious about is well actually two parts. One is the pain relieving effect of Nandrallone mediated by other mechanisms other than its role as a progesterine i.e. does it actually does it have any kind of unique opioid or anti-inflammatory functions outside of just increasing fluid in the joint? And then secondly, what kind of dose is typically well tolerated both from not causing things like bloating or high blood pressure or or mood side effects and how does that kind of in in practice what does that typically look like with TRT? Yeah, great great questions and and and I can luckily I have a lot of experience and I've uh been able to uh resolve that experience with data and studies as well and and one of the problems is there's not a lot of studies done on mandalone and that's one that's one of the problems right first of all what I wanted to say is I loved what you said about yeah the studies you can I can you can show me a study that says the sky is green I'm outside every day the sky is blue I say that a lot and and I frame it by saying that studies are interest and they should invoke further look into things, but what's more important is the empirical data. What do we actually see in the field and that trumps anything that a stud is going to tell you and and then when you said uh you can just start to see trends because you do this so much and that's kind of what what happened to me throughout the decades. I've successfully got over 20,000 people through the use of hormones. So I can sit on my mountain top look down on all the empirical data I've aggregated and I can start to see these trends that other people can't. I can start to see how percentages of populations move with different things and you know because of my background too I've done a lot of the derivatives uh nandrallones balden oxandrelone even even methanolone and that's another thing too methanolone the fact that well in the United States anyways that it's not a it's not FDA approved is a testament to how little the medical community understands these because methanol is incredibly beneficial and would really solve a lot of especially like when people have the estrogenic issues or it would really solve that and methanol is a when we want to talk about a safe anabolic androgenic steroid that has a lower side effect profile than anything else. I mean the fact that we don't use that is just silly but I really loved what you said there and I wanted I wanted to highlight that. Um moving into nangeloinone. So yeah I've used nulin quite a bit. I've had thousands and thousands of people and I've had a lot of success with it. And so one of the the things that develops is the myth of decadade, right? And and that's one of the first things people always say to me. And decad just comes from a low estrogen issue. It does not convert to estrogen. So back in the early 2000s, late 90s, early 2000s, anabolic steroids were actually hard to come by and people would take whatever they could get their hands on. So they would get their hands on a bottle of Nandril and just take it by itself without understanding the need for the balance of testosterone and estrogen. So it would shut down their indogenous testosterone supply, therefore shut off the conversion to estrogen and they'd have all this nandelone with no estrogen and then one of the classic symptoms of low estrogen is erectile dysfunction. So that's where the myth of decadic was born. On the contrary, when we use nandolone properly with testosterone because of its progesterrotogenic nature, I usually actually get benefits in libido, benefits in erection quality because it does have a 20% affinity to the progesterone receptor. Now when I see blood tests and I see men with um below.5 progesterone I always say okay this is a problem and like you I wanted to start with pregnentoolone. I want to try to see if we can get some some the steroidenesis and get some progesterone in there with with the use of pregnenolone first. It's import it's important it's a work acts on GABA receptors. It's a you know kind of for anti-anxiety. It also has to do erectile function libido and sensitivity as well. But we can also use nandrin as a progesterine to hit that function as well. So going further into its joint joint relief and and again there is no study that clearly highlights this is the reason that nandelone notoriously reduces joint pain but it is absolutely undeniable that it does. There is way too much anecdotal data. I've seen it thousands of thousands upon thousands of times myself and I've read about it a hundred thousand more times. Right? So there's no question that nandrolone does have a significant joint pain rate. Some of the mechanisms that we start to that we have looked into and I have a few that I that I think are probably the reason. One of them that I don't know if this is the reason or not that it increases synovial fluid. Um whether or not that's a progesteric activity as well and it's not proven that it increases synenovial fluid that's a theory but that would make sense. It's just systemically anti-inflammatory. Systemically more anti-inflammatory than than even testosterone. testosterone is Dr. Edward Liken. So he pioneered some research on using anabolic steroids for inflammatory diseases and he found that nangeline was one of the most anti-inflammatory and this is just through research and and trial and error. And he used a lot of anabolic steroids to treat inflammatory diseases such as Crohn's disease, ulcer of colitis. These happen to be digestive like autoimmune inflam inflammatory diseases but also rheumato rheumatoid arthritis. and he would find he even found and wrote that Nandrulin was one of the best at this. So just a systemically anti-inflammatory nature. Again, that's kind of what we're looking what's the reason for that. What I had been looking for for a long time was any evidence that Nandrallone had some sort of agonization on the gluccocorticoid receptor because that would be it, right? That would explain it. And I found no evidence that Nandeline directly had agonized the gluccocorticoid receptor. And I was hoping to because that would be an easy answer. After studying this a lot and and just over over years and years of doing research, I finally found one study that did show that one of Nandrulin's metabolites, progesterine metabolites, does agonize gluccocorticoid receptor. That's probably what I feel would do it the most. If we agonize the gluccocorticoid system, then we would reduce inflammation to the point that we would have joint pain relief. Here's another thing I factor I found, and this could be and it could be all these things together, right? It could be a little bit of all this together creates this this system that really just helps pain. What I also found is that nor's nandrallone does have a small affinity for the estrogen receptor alpha. This would also explain why bodybuilders so what would happen is bodybuilders would be taking a pretty high dose of testosterone and then all a sudden and they'd be fine, right? Then they'd add a pretty high dose of nandelone and they'd get gynecomastia. Now the whole idea that tenantulin doesn't convert to estrogen and we kind of show that so so you know some bodybuilders would say well it must convert to estradile because I got gynecomastia when I added it but you know it's just we prove over and over again that it does not so then that's when the whole thing about prolactin well something's got to be doing that so maybe it's prolactin and then that's when Llewellyn William Luwellen had to disprove that nandelone universally increased prolactin it does not it's actually rare that it does so I found that nandrallone in high doses, right? It's a dose dependent manner will agonize the estrogen receptor alpha and that makes the most sense when we add a high because it's really only high doses. When we have testosterone and we had a high dose of nandelone then some people who are sensitive to gynecomastia will will get gynecomastia and it's probably because it's directly agonizing the estrogen receptor. Now that also could induce joint pain relief, estrogen receptor agonization. So it it could be kind of a kind of all these things together that would do that. But I have had a lot of success with Nandrulin as far as increasing people's sense of well-being, reducing anxiety, giving people increased libido, increased erection quality when used properly. It just has to be used properly. Every once in a while, and I would say it's even less than one out of a hundred, you have somebody who just does not react well to the end. They have like mental anxiety effects. And it's rare, but every once in a while it does happen. Of course, those are the people who speak the loudest on on TRT forums or or forums. So, everybody goes, "Oh, no. I read about that." I was like, "No, it really doesn't happen that often. If it does happen, you can just discontinue the Nashville and you'll go back to normal. Everything will be fine." In fact, our friend Danny Bosa there was one that experienced that. He just couldn't take none without without the medical mental side effects. But, it's very rare that that happens. think it's it's it's it's interesting and it's a fascinating one for me as someone who's done a lot of research into progesterone in men which is such a a poorly understood subject and people often you know bring across a whole bunch of the mechanisms of progesterone in in women and then say oh that means that men should take the same dose of progesterone the women do and it's like well that's like saying women should take a man's dose of testosterone that's not it it still has the the same properties in in the brain and it is so integral for for balance. And the way that I often explain progesterone in both men and women is that progesterone is kind of like the brain's version of Valiant. You know, it's a positive alossteric modulator of the GABA A receptor. And when you have a deficiency in that, it's kind of like you're having a Valium withdrawal all the time. And it's it's one of the hormones that declines with age in men. And my general go-to for that has always been to optimize with pregnenolone because that way we know that pregnenolone predominantly converts into progesterone. It's like a 70% conversion. Um and that way the body can kind of pull from that what it needs as it needs it. And one of the things that I found to be a gamecher and I always go back to to Dr. Keith Nichols because he was right about a lot of things that I used to kind of question was that the sustained release use of pregnenolone, so like a sustained release capsule, allows the body to really create that optimal level of progesterone consistently without these kind of peaks and troughs. But I've always had this interest in in Nandrulone because I've met people and only a small handful of them because nandelone's a bit tricky in Australia, but methanolone's not. And that's one of the uh good things about Australia is like I often joke that in the US you guys only use Anavar therapeutically because you can't get methanolone but um methanolone's wonderful when it's used properly. I mean that's you you give someone 25 milligrams of methanol. I've never seen that disregulate any blood markets ever. I mean it's so well tolerated and so so beneficial especially for these younger guys who who really need a bit more of that androgenic kind of oomph. But when it comes to this this Nandrallone thing, the the other thing that I'm I'm really curious of is like because when I've read the research on it, there's there's that one study and I often joke that I'm like, you know, when we were doing our undergrad in in science and and one thing that I'll kind of, you know, cover back on is that you refer to basically what I what I often say is that science is a tool that helps us understand the world. It's not a religion. Recently, people have started to worship it like it's a religion. And the whole point of the the scientific method is to go, I've got this idea. Let's attack it from every angle and see if it still holds up to be true. And that's basically the scientific method. And the thing that you you learn when you when you study science, you know, when we do our first year, you know, science 101 um unit, they'd give you a study and they'd remove like the discussion or they'd remove the the abstract or they'd remove the conclusion and you had to fill in the the blanks. And one thing that you learn when you do that exercise is you go, these studies are often a load of [\h__\h] They don't mean anything compared to what the a like sometimes the author just gets it backwards. Um or they're wasting something that's just nonsense. Like it's just nonsense conclusions. And the thing that I've had trouble with for nandelone is that you've got this one study that goes, we added 50% of the TRT dose in Nandelone to a TRT protocol and then we measured people's self-reported pain relief. I'm like, that's that's barely a study. It's like we measured one thing and we we did this kind of thing and it was just like okay, but what else happened? And they're like, well, we didn't look at that. So that but you know what they did look at is interesting but then in all these other studies I'm seeing 25 mg per mill nandalone decinoate administered every 2 to 3 weeks in HIV patients. So I'm sitting here being like well in these studies where they've used next to nothing at least they've measured some kind of you know other blood markers and then in the one that kind of represents the dosing that I see a lot of people doing online they didn't really measure anything. So what kind of ballpark like weekly like starting dose, average dose, like what or is there a dose that you start with and then you have to work it up to confer therapeutic benefit or is there a dose that if you go too high it causes problems? Like what kind of like what does this really kind of look like in practice? Yeah, that's a another great question. So So I think we attack it like we attack anything else. start off at a low dose and I found that about 60 milligrams is where people can start to see the benefits of nandelone depending on what we've done with the testosterone but it is it is an androgen it will increase the total androgen load so we got to we want to watch that we're not going too high so I have some people who they go up to like 250 testosterone per week right now they start saying man these joint pains won't go away or something something to that effect and so I say okay well I think it makes sense instead of just adding and on top of that the androgen load's getting high. Let's back off testosterone and then add nandeline, right? So, we'll just even though testosterone is more anabolic than than nandelone, it's nandelone is much less androgenic than testosterone. So, even though it's not equal, I tend to start by reducing the testosterone dose by about 60 milligram 50 60 milligrams and then in and then adding nandelone at 60 milligrams. And then it's about the same thing we always do. titrate the dose of none up if necessary to continue to mitigate the side effects or continue to to ease the joint pain. So, and I find that you know everybody's different, right? Some some people their magic number is 100 milligrams nandelone. The the classic thing that people say is you got to do a 2:1 ratio and that's just I mean that's a that's a that's an okay start. Some people really most people are just fine with a 1:1 ratio testosterone and again it would have to do with total androgen load to the estrogen ratio like what what works for that person as an individual and also the progesterrogenic activity like there can be too much and also understand this for people who are super sensitive to estrogen we'll give more nandelone than testosterone I've had people who are so sensitive to testosterone and the the estrogenic conversion that they can only use 50 milligrams per week of testosterone. And so then now that's just not enough androgens. They need more androgens, but they can't add testosterone. So then we just I I'll put 100 milligrams of nandrulin on top of that. So now we're doing more nandulone than testosterone. And for some people who are really sensitive to that estrogen, that works really really well. For most people, you do want it a 2:1 or 1:1 ratio, but a 1:1 ratio doesn't necessarily confer problems. Um, and sometimes it can that the extra proestester progesteric activity can actually cause can start to cause erection quality problems or sensitivity problems. So, it's about finding that ratio. So, just like we do anything else, start off low, slowly titrate up until we find the dose that yields the best results for you as an individual. But, it's very beneficial. I I recommend the use of nandrulonein for any kind of joint pain or like I've had people who just having a little anxiety from from testosterone probably because you know it's a it increases tyrroscen kynise tyrroscenase increases the catakolamines such as norepinephrine and and epinephrine the progesteric effect can like you said it acts on the gabber receptors can kind of quiet the mind it can kind of reduce anxiety so I can use it for for that function as well but yeah I I have a lot of success with Angela like it it adds and benefits people's protocol. I I think that the amazing thing about hormone replacement therapy is that like you know there's not really many painkillers you can use chronically that are good for you that are still going to maintain efficacy without you really pushing it up and creating issues. I mean you've got NSA which will destroy your gut. You've got paracetamol that will destroy or opioids which will destroy your life. So, I mean, it's uh it's when when you've got a tool a tool in the toolbox to be like, hey, we've got something here that I mean, and I think that's one of the wonderful things about this field is you don't need that many tools because the tools are so effective for so many things. Yeah, that's really interesting. I I've seen these compounds get so many people off of all other kinds of kinds of medications, including opioids for pain relief. I've seen nandelone and testosterone combination get so many people off of opioids. Um, we did I've done a few videos of people who were able to do just that. Um, we did transformation stories of people who were in really bad injuries and were on opiates and now they just use testosterone and to control their pain and they don't need opiates anymore. It's it's wonderful. That was that was actually the the catalyst that made me reach out to you before for for people listening before we were recording. I was saying that one of the downsides of being so busy is you don't really watch much of this stuff in your free time because you just want to kind of watch something else. Um, but one of the videos that I saw of yours outside of your the previous one that I'd watched was yeah, you were sharing like a case study of of a guy who and he was kind of going through like a like a pain log. And you know, as someone myself who's experienced a lot of chronic pain in my life from spinal injuries, like when someone can sit there and be like, "No, like this is like significantly better." you know, from like a low out of 10 to like, you know, eight or nine out of 10 pain relief from not having to use opioid medication or like massive doses of NSAs. I mean, that's that's that's that's miracle work for people who are suffering with that stuff. Couldn't agree with you more and and I've that's why you and I are both in this field because we've seen miracles and just like you said, I love how you just put that. I'm probably going to steal that too is we have these tools in our teal box and we don't need too many tools because it really it really you know a lot of people hate when I say this but it almost becomes a panacea for for all of these disorders for metabolic disorders fatigue disorders and a lot of a lot of pain pain as well because we're we're really fixing the root of the problem. We're fixing the ideology from metabolic disorders and from fatigue disorders. Like we're getting to the root of what's causing those. And it it really is a great tool to no matter what the what the ideology of those disorders are, these hormones can come in and and fix it. And the the thing that kind of what you were talking about before with how, you know, testosterone increases part of the the tyroine conversion, which for people listening is basically how dopamine gets made from amino acids. One of the things that I've learned from from Dr. Keith as well as uh Neil Rusier as well is this idea of if we optimize the hell out of one hormone, then it can often be really important that we optimize the other pathways of the body to be able to support this part of the body being optimal. I mean, if you and I use I've used this analogy to death, but if you have a car that needs a service and then you supercharge the engine, then you're going to fix one problem but create a few more because now there's further imbalance between these systems. And I think that sometimes one of the challenges for people in chronic pain or people with metabolic disorders is that we've taken a really healthy level of testosterone and put it in someone who's really unhealthy. And the process of getting them to be able to meet that medicine halfway in terms of getting healthier sometimes requires supporting more systems. And I think that this is where if a guy's got low testosterone and low progesterone, then you know he might not really notice that cuz he just feels terrible anyway. But now if you jack the testosterone up, all of a sudden he's like, I I feel better, but I'm over stimulated because now that low progesterone is now problematic because we fixed one thing, but we've now created this gap between the two.