I speak a little bit as a layman now, but u isn't it dangerous uh to start resistance training at that age if they have never worked out? Uh maybe their bones are a bit more brittle. Uh another >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm going to say I think it's dangerous not to. Right. So you have uh you know we have you know 50 cent word sarcopenia, right? So that's kind of age related or you know wasting wasting of muscle. Um it's going to happen. Right. So if you're and there's different there's different data on this too. When does it actually start? I think sort of it depends upon you know what what you've been doing for your whole life but sometime in your you know 40s or so maybe a little past there you're going to start losing a percentage of muscle year over year. And it's interesting it kind of correlates even with the you know with the hormone drop too right. So, you know, maybe it's somewhere like a, you know, you know, 1% of your of your muscle mass per year or so, maybe a maybe a half a percent on the in those younger those early younger years, then accelerating more as you get into your, you know, 60s plus. Uh, but if you're losing that muscle year over year, 1%, it's not not a good thing, right? You're going to be weak, you're going to be frail, you're going to have a fall, you're not going to recover well from, you know, if you, god forbid, have a hospitalization or something, you know, something like that. And there's even a there's even a threshold, you know, the sarcopenic disability threshold. You know, you lose about 20 to 30% of your total your total baseline muscle mass. And that's about where people are impaired right now. They can't walk well. They can't c they can't get up off the floor. If they if they fall, they're not going to be able to prevent themselves from falling. So, if you do some math there, if you're using, you know, if you're losing 1% per year, you're looking at that 20 or 30, you know, 20 or 30 years to get to that point where now you can't do anything. You're not going to be not going to be able to function. and you're going to you're going to get hurt. So, the other, you know, the flip side of that is is the older you get, you have to be a little more careful and deliberate with the way you do train, right? So, I don't want to take a 75-year-old guy and sign him up for, you know, CrossFit gym class day one and he's going in there doing box jumps and ballistic movements and Olympic lifts and that's probably not a great idea. But you get them in there just moving full, you know, full range of motion, careful, uh, basically just practicing the exercises to begin with, they're going to get some real good, um, you know, newbie gains, just like the, you know, just like the 20-year-old who's the first time in the gym. They're going to they're going to get some, they're going to get some good muscle growth out of it. Um, I think, you know, their joints and bones are actually going to feel better for it now. There's some blood flow getting in there. We're getting things moving. End up with some reduced pain and some and definitely some better function. Mhm. >> So, uh, so yeah, definitely definitely not unsafe and I I think it's mandatory. I mean, I I I insist all of my patients do it. They're probably sick of hearing me say it, but, uh, when they do it, they're they're happy for it. >> It improves health, for sure.