PRT is the acronym for testosterone replacement therapy, sometimes called hormone therapy or testosterone replacement therapy. It's a medical treatment used to treat low testosterone levels, which can occur with age or due to a medical condition. Your body naturally produces less testosterone as you age; this is a completely natural process that begins in your late twenties or early thirties. This gradual decrease in testosterone often doesn't cause any noticeable symptoms, but after a few years, the following symptoms may occur: decreased libido, fewer spontaneous erections, erectile dysfunction, decreased sperm count or volume, sleep problems, unusual muscle and bone loss, and unexplained weight gain. The only way to know if you truly have low testosterone levels is to have your blood levels checked, along with a few other things that are explained on this channel, including several other videos. There are several ways to administer testosterone: gels, injections, creams, patches, nasal spray, oral medications, and implants.  But almost all the experts who have appeared on this channel agree that the best methods are injections or custom-made testosterone cream for daily application to the scrotum. You can learn much more about this in other videos we 've made previously. TRT is generally lifelong because it replaces your own insufficient testosterone production with exogenous testosterone. If you stop TRT, you revert to your own insufficient testosterone production, so all the symptoms will return. Watch other videos we've made on the possible side effects and costs of TRT—two common questions, but the most important one is this: before starting TRT, make sure you learn as much as possible about it. Find a good provider who can help you on your journey to better health and a better quality of life. To help you in these two areas, I created the Facebook group " TLTI and Hormones Optimization." Many of the experts you see in videos on this channel are part of this Facebook group and can help you find a good clinic and answer any questions you may have. Now do this: click here to start our list  a reading that will teach you all the basics to start trp