Welcome, you wanted this video. In this video, he wants to discuss the pros and cons of scrolling, applying, or using a phone cream for testosterone replacement therapy. Arjan, Dr. Steven de Vos, will be coming to this channel. He's lifting models, and this is my brother's fence partner. Then don't bother. If you want to learn more about the most cutting-edge science-based information in the world of hormone replacement therapy, please like and subscribe. Clegg, the Bel Bar, and stopping him from performing. He invites you to join my mother's YouTube channel. Exposure dermatology link you can't find in the description of this video. Let's make it clear that you're talking about the compound, the 20 percent Microlife testosterone in Perth. A base, like, to base age, sharky base, like in Europe. Use the union penta van cream. Okay, so also know the pros and cons. He owes her a lot of design enthusiasm. He could tell you what one of the first people on the internet said is that there is a square cream to the scrotum. It is less invasive than the design. Jarno, news, no glory creations. So, eh, control is that white, small, when the  With 2CD scrotum, you will have very stable testosterone levels in your body. That's because you inject twice weekly, inject every day. Okay, I think you want to know if that's very stable. The middle square 2CD morning and evening form of access is 115 milligrams of testosterone, and to the base of the school, you will have very stable bone levels. Post-treatment is that, or men will tell you aren't a tank. That you can have very high total test results, or stone levels, and fleetest levels by applying this to John Green. When he would see the scrotum, he would work with the blade. We have total testosterone levels up to 1507 grams per deciliter, and for your testosterone levels from Turkey to the fifties, sixties, nanograms per deciliter, or that of my square 2CD, toet toet, 3 clicks with the toby click system. That's warm, and the access is 115 microSD. Those boring total and free testosterone levels are changing. The coast trunks, big lap, worry is a times higher than a dog's, and of course,  Commercial Test of Thrones shell to make the folder scoring simple. There's a study he looked into the pharmacokinetics of the square testosterone cream by the school when he wants the link in the description and then through it to this shop pro is that next to hire a total and free test of keys, you will also have a higher age 10 spike each time you apply. This will be ideal for hire libido. Another thing we that men are already worried about before they try this out is that they can't workout in India, him already in the morning, that is complete and correct, content white setting and higher view middle 10 want to help with the up concerns, okay then, how will you give some days at tents, also us a square 2 CD or the show is a lot of work, my you the scrotum had Tommisch as well as someone not to do that two to three times a week, I am there is the issue of transfer and but maybe that pro there's a lot less transference to partner children, to both I and your happy when the scrotum, of course, that in on us is a tour planning it and then the school, so the biggest could ever  Is that different? Coverage about a shower king for Slim4 from having sex, Jungsheft? You know, for parents, or door obligation in the morning and in the evening you apply is 2CD, so a break did that, unfortunately for those who are active. It is so that I this trend is for a lot, and then maybe one loves the advantage. The short, of course, he can also give you the short about the Desteldonk belt. That wants to see the band from farm to form, from country to country, anyway, in most countries, what the f earth from a lot of me is that the cream short, more lady injections, okay, so come on, rabbi's up and has my card with notes and will just give you a quick summary. The professor still has injections, no needle, sclessin v6 phase table d'hotes levels when you apply it. Why CD fashionable, that what is good for libido, trance, big lap care of etangs, then you go and URLs under banning, higher total test and free testosterone levels than we do, new square commercial product by the school, the simple malfunction and death note problem working out, the humidity will even increase and worry, I am the chance 2CD a lot  Of work, suspension of the dish several times a week, shut up, then testosterone war for injections and gold ring piping swimming, having sex in the middle of the first for our software application, also agree, so he hopes you like this video, who finds it thumbs up, Sheraton Max, my that there are injections as well, maybe they will change your mind, use Texelstroom cream in the future. If you have any questions for love and this video and I'll see you in an expert