 por por porf мои porf мои porf one. I'm talking about Surmorland, which came out under the FDA-approved name Garef, and it was previously used actually in growth hormone stimulation tests. It was used in children, and then it was also FDA-approved for the application of low-growth hormone. Now, Surmorland works similar to being an endogenous analog of growth hormone-releasing hormones, and it tells the anterior pituitary to make growth hormone, which therefore tells the liver to make IGF-1, which about 70-75% of all IGF-1 production occurs at the site of liver, and the rest of it occurs peripherally, such as cartilaginous tissue, such as the gastrointestinal tract as well. Some of the benefits one could expect with the introduction of a growth hormone secretagogue, one of the biggest ones is cognitive fluidity. In other words, what the literature has shown us is that as people get older, they experience cognitive decline, and with cognitive decline, they lose fluidity, which is the ability to demonstrate the movement from one topic to another, and they have nice verbal, nice memory recall as well, whereas someone who lacks cognitive fluidity, well, you know, they're not as sharp on their toes. They don't recall things with acumen that other people typically would. In terms of anabolism, IGF-1 and GH aren't exactly, they're not the most anabolic of agents, especially when compared to androgens. Androgens just outshine IGF-1 and GH so much, but IGF-1 and GH, they can increase protein synthesis, they can increase nitrogen retention, but they can also help with the cartilaginous structures. They help with the repair, because as you know, if you train a lot, well, you're going to have breakdown of tissue, your body's going to wear out. So GH, and thus IGF-1, are great for reparative or generative type things, but they aren't inherently the most anabolic of agents, though. A few other benefits of IGF-1 is that it can also increase glycogen synthesis, it can increase tendon collagen synthesis, it can prevent mitochondrial breakdown, especially in the myocytes, and on top of that, also shares a lot of the same properties as insulin. In fact, IGF-1 shares about 50% the same amino acid homology as does insulin, and it's even been demonstrated to exert similar glucose reduction and insulin sensitizing benefits that insulin does. Body composition improvements have been reported in the literature, even anecdotally. A lot of athletes, a lot of bodybuilders particularly, will report that using these type of agents helps them lean out. And we know this because GH is great at inducing lipolysis, which is the breakdown of fatty tissue. So similar to other GHRPs, or growth hormone releasing peptides, growth hormone secreticogs, whatever you want to call them, sermoreland is dosed with the subcutaneous administration, typically done right before you go to bed. And like the other GHRPs, you typically want to do it on an empty stomach to maximize its benefits. Now, in terms of adverse reactions, well, some people can demonstrate fatigue. But hey, if you get fatigued, guess what? You're going to bed anyway. And hey, maybe some of that fatigue will translate to hitting that deep wave sleep, which is the type of sleep that really facilitates the production of the GH pulses. Some people get injection site reactions, some people get some flushing, some people get some water retention. Also, some literature has shown that there might be marginal increases in prolactin and maybe even cortisol. But believe it or not, there are some studies that show that at higher doses, we're talking upwards of one milligram per night, there's some studies that show that it can even increase FSH and or LH in men. So if they're hypogonadal, it's speculated that it could possibly help increase testosterone in those people who are hypogonadal. But it hasn't been thoroughly explored, nor would I want to try that with a patient of mine. Be honest with you, I wouldn't want to try that. In pediatric dosing and some of the provocative testing, the dosages were around 30 micrograms per kilogram. But if you translate that to an adult dose, that would be oftentimes in the milligrams, which is quite large for typical adults. What most of the literature supported, what most compounding pharmacists would recommend for adults, typically is in the ballpark of about 100 to 400-ish micrograms nightly. As a recap, I've been familiar with Samorlan over a decade. I've used it myself. I think it's very well tolerated. It's mild at best. Yeah, I've noticed and appreciated some deeper, more restorative sleep. If you train pretty regularly, you'll notice less DOMS. You'll notice that your recovery is a lot better and that your capacity to push yourself is more well tolerated. Is it just a minute? Thank you.