Take me for example. Um I'm 51. I am on TRT since eight years. Uh I I take armored thyroid and I feel fine. I'm optimized. I can work out. I have a good libido. Everything is fine. And um what is the next step in optimization? Would you recommend trying um growth hormone or maybe a secret or would you tell me yeah just leave it alone. You're fine. >> I think it depends. And I have guys that ask this a lot. They say, "Hey doc, what do I want to what can I do? What else can I do right now?" And I'm like, "Do to what? Do for what goal?" You have to have a goal. Don't just take something to add it to take it. That's what I tell people. First of all, you need to have a goal in mind. Something that your current protocol is not doing. >> Maybe longevity, but that you don't know. >> You can't prove longevity at all. Like, I can't stand the longevity research. I I can't stand it because again, you're looking at these markers that may have nothing to do with anything. So, in general, I think the body's pretty smart. And when you feel well and are humming along and ticking boxes, that's the best situation. And that's the good thing. If you do want to add something, if you're honest with yourself and you feel worse, stop taking it. Um, or if you get nothing out of it, don't take it. And that's what people get hoodwink with supplements and vitamins. They feel no different on them or sometimes feel worse, but they're like, "No, I just have to take them because I've been told I have to take these." No, you don't at all. I take no none of those. I feel better than ever, right? I eat whole foods now. I eat real food. Again, like it makes a difference. Um, but as far as GH, like I've been curious myself about it because I do like being my own guinea pig and trying things. I'm not against people trying things. Do you need it? No. Need is a subjective term anyway. Like what? Need for what? Um, if you need it for it, the effects that only it can give, well then yeah, you need it, you know. Um, I think I've seen a lot of people their skin, it can help in the skin and the nails and the hair health. I mean, it seems like it can uh a little bit probably better body composition. It's not magic. It's not going to, let's say, melt fat away unless you I think you hit the high doses like some of these guys do. And you may see magic happen, but you also may see some negative magic happening to your organs and your blood sugars and things like that. So, there's always a cost with all these things. And again, I think it's worthwhile to explore that. I think GH is off limits for most people from the cost perspective. Like >> I mean we make good money or we did when we were urologists. I looked at the cost of growth hormone for like one IU a day of real growth hormone. There's no way my wife would have been okay with us paying for that every month. No way. So I think that's going to be the big one is cost prohibitive for most people. It's very tightly controlled in the United States as far as legitimate prescriptions for it. The secrets I don't even think about them in the same category as GH because they're just not. But they do have some benefits. Um, I tried I Pamearellan CGC 1295 a couple years ago and because I have a crappy sleep and I'm a light sleeper, it helped me sleep better. Now, is that a good thing from a health standpoint? Like, how is it inducing that? I don't know. Uh, I didn't feel worse on it. I felt like over the couple months, I didn't really change my diet. I feel like I maybe started seeing a few more veins in my shoulders. You know, you you convince yourself you can see anything, and that could be a million things causing that. But I do think my recovery was better because I was still working out pretty much the same. I didn't notice the soreness as long. So again, that's all anecdotal, but I think that's the whole point of all this is try it and see. Uh same thing with thyroid. I've done the same thing. I take thyroid even though my panel is normal. I feel better on it. I'm not getting negatives. I'm not getting sweats. I'm not, you know, shaking. I'm not getting high heart rate. I've taken T3 before. I know what it can do. I think Armor is way more gentle. Um, and it just seems to cause a well-being and mental focus and clarity and just ticks a few extra boxes. So, that's my thing is if you're already optimized on testosterone, lifestyle, diet, you know, and you don't feel like there's anything missing, maybe don't mess with a good thing. If you're like just want to experiment on yourself, that's a different category altogether. But when we talk, I think we used to use that term optimizing probably too flippantly and now I've realized there's a lot of subjectivity involved in even that word. So, it's really is kind of like Brick Chavez always says when he's talking about anabolics, right tool for the right job. But you got to know the job that you're wanting to get done and then explore the tools and see if they tick the box that you want them to. And I think it's it's very pragmatic, but I think that's what all this is boils down to in the end. Mhm. I read somewhere that when you're older, maybe over 45, um the secreta goes are not worth it anymore because they can't stimulate enough the pituitary glands. >> Again, you're you're going into like they're going into like mental wanking territory there when it's like, okay, if I take this and I'm 50 and I get better sleep and recovery, who gives a crap? Who cares? All I'm after is that effect. That's what I want. I want to get it done. And I don't care about the mental mechanisms people are coming up with to try to explain what's going on. I don't think they can know it. People don't know as much as they think they do when it comes to processes in the body. I'll just put it that way. Uh I think even Huberman admitted that on on Bill Maher, you know, talking about like, well, we only know 10% of what we think, you know, is true or what. And it's like I don't think it's that. I I don't think most of it. They're all heristuristics and mental models to try to make sense of how a drug might work, but nobody actually knows what we know are effects. What we can see are when we give this what happens and then you have to determine if that's a desirable thing. Well, that's subjective. Then you have to determine if it's a healthy thing. That's hard to prove sometimes, you know, because what if it's fine for a while and then it gets over time. I mean, everybody has to choose their own riskreward ratios with this stuff. So, I've just way more pragmatic over time. Hey, hey, hey.