Prostate cancer thankfully has been looked at for at least 20 years now and they've kind of debunked all that myth that testosterone either causes it or even fuels it. I hope that spills over into the female world soon because the same dogma's repeated about estradiol when there's just no good evidence for that. Now, is there evidence that some hormones can cause harm? Yeah, but not all hormones are the same. People like to make these hasty generalizations, right? and they they put everything into one category. It's just like people do with carbohydrates, you know, in the oh oh because this one these few over here may may be bad, therefore all carbs are bad. It's like no, everything stands or falls on its own. So it's going to be the same thing with with these hormones and and cancer risks and things like that. But um you know I always tell people of course if if you have a hormone sensitive tissue that becomes cancerous or a part of it does, it's still going to be hormone sensitive. The hormones aren't causing that. And of course, if you withdraw the hormones, you might see the tissue shrink away and shrivel. People equate shriveling a tumor with a good outcome when it's like you don't know that doing that is actually doing anything for why that cancer is there in the first place. You're just chasing an effect, right? You can do it with chemo. I could I could cut off a blood supply to a tumor and shrink it. That has nothing to do with the total health of the person. So, people don't, I think, think hard enough on these topics and they're chasing effects instead of chasing root causes. But again, there's no evidence that testosterone causes or fuels prostate cancer. I think I've talked about this before. I had guys as a practicing urologist who had prostate cancer like low gra. They were doing surveillance and they wanted to be on TRT and based on the many studies done on that with Dr. Morgan Tyler's group, I was comfortable doing that. And guess what? None of them that I ever saw had sudden rapid progression of their cancer. In fact, a lot of the PSA numbers got better. Not that PSA is a great test. It can change all the time, but in general, people with prostate cancer, it will slowly, you know, rise over time. And I would see their PSA numbers improve. And is that because their health got better? I don't know. That's all speculative. What what I saw was no no increased risk. And they felt better. They felt like humans again. So these people that are wanting to castrate them or keep them castrated all to chase a PSA marker on its own, they're not taking into account the whole person and what their goals are in life and their desires, you Milk.