What levels of total and free testosterone do you average see uh when patients feel good? Oh, that's a good question. Um, you know, I I would ballpark a free testosterone for most of my patients somewhere in the ballpark of no less than 20 nanogs per deciliter. Um, probably closer to 40 45 nanogs per deciliter. Um, so I I I tend to have a pretty broad range there. Uh I have found that again I frankly think a lot of men are significantly underdosed. Um I know uh Ke Keith uh Nichols has I think been on here before and spoken to that well. Uh and I I think he's well versed in that topic. Um I I do find that a lot of people have a confusion when it comes to hormone replacement therapy. uh and and I don't know if you know the best way to put it, but essentially don't confuse endogenous or internal hormone production and processing with hormone replacement therapy. It's not a onetoone at all. And when you start playing that game, you can you can end up in a bad position for your patients. So, um I do tend to push the testosterone levels a little bit higher. Um and I I find that a lot of my patients do feel best in that slightly higher range. Uh so just a total for example would be it's probably something closer to the ballpark of 900 NOGS per deciliter. Um and with the creams gosh it's hard to keep it under 14 or 1500 sometimes. Uh they are really really potent at pushing those levels up. Yeah shorting. Um yeah I regularly see for myself 1 1200 1300 nanogs per deciliter which is still normal and fine. Um but still on our lab our lab ranges here in Europe are a maximum of 900 950 nanogs per DC liter. So they brought down all these um yeah lab ranges that's probably because of an unhealthy population. Yes. I I couldn't agree more. Yeah. And what what would be the reason that our general population is lower in um leestosterone than generations before? Um, maybe I think it's a good moment to start talking about EDCs. Yeah, I love that. I love this question. Um, endocrine disrupting chemicals, uh, is what you're referring to, Stephen. And and it's fascinating and we're I think we're really frankly just starting to learn more about this. Um, so we have our endocrine disrupting chemicals which are probably the most prevalent and and the most potent. Um and and so literally if you guys can think about it uh these chemicals look, act and behave very similarly uh to estrogenic hormones. And so uh most plastics uh are are probably probably the most popular thing where this would be coming from. Uh and in this day and age, it's almost impossible to avoid them. I mean actually I would say it is literally impossible to avoid them. Uh there are, you know, plastics in our clothing, there are plastics in our foods, there are plastics, uh, you know, in and around us all the time. Um, and that's not to be pessimistic, but what we're ending up with is a is a really dire position where we've lost um and and Stephen, I don't know what it is in Europe necessarily, but I think in the United States, we're down about 50 to 60% uh in total testosterone since I think the 60s and 70s. Um, which is massive. Absolutely insane. uh in a very very very short period of time and of course coinciding with uh you know lower sperm count uh uh you know on the female side this is just as big of a problem where they're they're you know entering into menration earlier uh they're suffering from more PCOS and endometriosis um you know of course we're seeing male prostate cancer constantly on the rise so I I you know I have been a big advocate of okay we're we're in a dire position right now I don't think we have to be uh ashamed about that or or hide from that fact. Uh but more importantly, I also think this is to some degree in relationship to our mental and physical health deterioration. And so in my opinion, if there are obvious at least obvious enough factors like endocrine disrupting chemicals that are pervasive in every single part of the world at this point, we're seeing these declining levels and hormones. We've measured them. We can speak to them. I don't understand why we wouldn't start with something like testosterone replacement therapy over an SSRI for example, which again in in the research we're we're seeing SSRIs as being a a essentially like we don't understand why we're giving them. Uh and and and whereas with testosterone we have a very very clear understanding of it, much clearer. Um and at the very least uh god forbid the guy's still sad, at least he's stronger uh and less fat and maybe his wiener works a little bit better. So, I'm just AI'm a big fan of looking at that and same for the females. I think that there's a huge disparaging uh uh you know issue with with female patients and on that same level. Um and and some of the endocrine disrupting chemicals again uh you know even even so far as some of them affecting our cortisol too uh where we're seeing more cortisol on the rise which is more catabolic. So it's stripping muscle tissue um you know it's it's it's stripping away our immune system in a lot of ways. It's just a really bad place to be and I I think it's annoying that hormones aren't at the forefront in a lot of ways just yet and I think we're changing that. Yeah. And what do you recommend patients to do to protect themselves from EDCs or is just getting on hormone replacement immediately um a protection already? Yeah, I that's a fantastic question. I I think both really. I do think both. Um, and I know that sounds probably a little bit premature in some ways to some people, but I I think I think the silliest thing to do is start hormones at the very latest point. I I think that was the old school mentality, which was uh, you know, we wait till a male or female's uh, you know, uh, uh, bones start to deteriorate and their muscle tissue goes to and their brain health is gone and then we can start them on just a little bit of some sort of synthetic hormone that's going to kill them earlier anyways. versus why don't we start at the the earliest point we can frankly um if it's necessary and if it's needed I think it should be initiated uh the more we can preserve muscle mass the more we can preserve your bones the more we can preserve your brain and your heart health uh it puts less burden on the system at large it puts less burden on your you know kind of micro system at home I I think that's fantastic as far as the endocrine disrupting chemical side of things go I I think it's extremely important to just be mindful and at least aware. Um, you know, you there's no sense in driving yourself crazy trying to avoid it because we can't. Um, but, you know, don't microwave your food in plastic Tupperware. Uh, try not to, you know, wear plastic clothing all day long if especially if you don't have to. Um, attempt to, uh, you know, get outside and get some sunlight. All the all the basic tenants, right? Um, just try to try to be mindful. uh try not to drive yourself crazy and do your part there. Um but again, I I do I'm an optimistic guy. I do actually see at least in the United States, you know, we've had some really interesting changes going on over the last few months. Um and and hopefully we'll start seeing from more of a top down approach a really big shift. Yeah, let's uh certainly hope so. Um do you also see a problem with the the eating of soy and the soy and all kinds of nutrition? Yeah, I I do. Um, you know, I I think well, you know, soy products at this point are almost like wheat products. Um, meaning meaning I I think probably there was a point in time where soy wasn't so unbelievably detrimental. Uh, and maybe similar to wheat and at least especially what we've done to it in the United States is just, you know, bastardized these poor products to the nth degree, uh, with, you know, genetic engineering and things of that nature. Um, and and uh we've we've created a Frankenstein product and and I'm somewhat curious if that is also just potentiating some of the estrogenic effects of something like soy for example. Um, so, you know, again, I'm not disparaging people from eating soy at all, but or or you know, entertaining that, but it is something that I would not make a huge part of my diet. You know, I agree with also like some of the processed oils. um at least in my opinion it seems very obvious that uh eating too much of them is probably somewhat detrimental to your overall health. Um so yeah I hope that answer your question Stephen. Yeah even in my practice I see a lot of um moms with their little kids sons often and yeah they they switched completely from dairy to soy products because of yeah so-called or whatever. So a lot of young boys are on soy instead of milk. I I think that's frightening for the future. Right. I couldn't agree more and it's funny you mentioned that um you know a lot of people have said you know Nico you know what what are the natural things I can do and and I always try to remind people too you know sometimes just because something's natural also doesn't mean it's safe so uh you know I I've spoken to a lot of my patients are very health consscious and and and that's wonderful and they they like the some of the holistic and alternative remedies um but for example I think you know this being in your world of skincare uh tea tree oil um lavender oil. These essential oils are highly highly highly estrogenic compounds. Um, again, sparingly, totally fine and and they have some amazing benefits. Um, but used daily uh and frequently, it can it can create some really I actually had a male patient with gynecomastia and I'm quite certain it was because he used an incredible amount of tea tree oil for acne. um like an unbeliev unsafe amount of tea tree oil.