concerning TRT and administration uh routes. Uh which do you prefer also the injections and the creams like many other of the guests on my channel at least? That's a great question. Um you know I I I would say in in my clinic alone it's it's probably almost evenly split. I I almost always when I when I bring up uh and injections and creams are by far my my two favorite options. Um, if if I bring them up, I'm almost always asking the patient, "Which one struck you as something that you would do." Uh, you know, if you're afraid of needles, but you know, everybody says you should do it that way. Maybe let's not. Maybe let's start with creams. I just need you to do it. Um, I want you to be successful. It's like working out. I mean, I could tell you that weightlifting has all these amazing facts and studies and and and truths, but at the end of the day, if you like yoga or swimming, I'd prefer you to do something. So, um, but I personally, if I, if I had a gun to my head, Stephen, I would choose, uh, creams and topical gels. They're unbelievably fantastic. Um, and by the way, you you've been a huge, uh, advocate for that, which I'm I'm very appreciative of. Um, and and many of my patients, they'll they'll honestly they'll start with injections. You know, I'll tell them, "Hey, in about four or five months, the novelty will wear off." And almost always are asking, "Can you tell me a little bit more about the creams and gels?" Again, Um, they they've just been phenomenal in my in my practice. I really do love just to hit on that too. Um I I find a lot of my patients seem to benefit and again this is anecdotal um but I they seem to benefit more from the topical creams in terms of the the DHT uh or dihydrotestosterone ratio to testosterone. So um dihydrotestosterone you know I in some weird way I almost compare it to like progesterone but for men it it it has a calming effect on the central nervous system which is really fascinating. um much like progesterone does for for females. So, you know, I actually occasionally will sometimes opt for that if if I feel like a patient is, you know, maybe a little bit more anxious or something to that effect. Mhm. I heard you mention um gels as well. I I don't suppose you recommend 1% gels to slather all over the shoulders? No. Uh sorry, I should clarify. Compounded creams and gels. uh not not the uh not the androgels or testo gels, not the not the crud I would say you would get from a retail pharmacy. So um I I particularly use a product at least here in the United States. Um I know a Trevous is is one of those products. There's I think there's a slightly better product. Um it's made by a company called Medisca here. Uh but it's an HRT gel. Um and and it's it's fantastic. It has a little bit of a liposomaal action to it. So, it's almost kind of a combination close to a a liposomaal cream and a HRT gel and they're kind of mushing it together. Um, and that has just been phenomenal for my patients uh to a transcoral application.