Do you want to finish up talking about more about cream? Yeah, I would love to. You have uh more experience with cream than than I do, so I'd love to hear about it. Yeah, I think it's it's a it's a really good point for people to learn about because and and there's a couple of nuance things and again I'm going to give all credit to to my friend Dr. to Keith Nichols because one thing that he's been saying for for many years and that I recently learned about as I was saying before we've we're just opening a clinic over here in Latapia and he was always a real stickler for using one pharmacy and what you learn is that differenties even if they have the same cream base and they're using micronized testosterone there's a different recipe. So, it was kind of like if you get, you know, chocolate chip cookies from 10 different bakeries, they're all going to be really different just based on how they make that the cookie. I had no idea that that's how compounded cream work. I thought there must be like one universal recipe that people use. And not only that, but then the the difference of the fact that it comes in all these different bases, that is a big factor for why there's so much variance across the board. Um when it comes to cream and badly made cream, whether it's like a commercial preparation with low bioavailability or um a cream that isn't, you know, made properly in a pharmacy, it really doesn't work very well. But when you get a cream that's made exceptionally well, which is why people have to work with, you know, providers who have a a pharmacy that they they know and they trust and they go, "Yep, we send the scripts to this pharmacy specifically." then you can have a a really good experience with it. So, I personally transitioned to cream when I first moved to well first made the commitment to move to Lithuania longterm, which was about a year and a half ago. And I'd been on uh 250 milligrams per week of testosterone split over three shots for seven years or something like that. And because I'd been stable on it, like I I didn't really think twice about swapping over. And I honestly noticed zero change in terms of my blood work was almost exactly the same. Symptoms remained the same. The only thing that changed was I stopped stabbing myself and started putting cream on my bulbs. The that's the only thing that changed for me. So I became a fan of it just purely out of convenience in terms of accessibility. But the thing that I've learned more over the last year or so in terms of uh speaking more with with Keith and then also kind of learning more about what's going on in theies in the US is this real preference towards the HRT base of the cream. And when it comes to topical medications, you know, the most most common things in in topical medications are things like corticosteroid creams or like antifungal creams. But these bases that they use for these creams are kind of universal. So you can kind of put anything in them and they'll work. But the HRTbased cream was made specifically for hormone replacement therapy. And the thing that I really like about it is that it's made of olive oil and macadamia nut oil. So it doesn't have any chemically smell. It doesn't leave a residue. And and when you put it on, it's kind of like putting on like a really good quality heavy like sunscreen or moisturizer. So like a full dose for me, which is 0.5 mil twice a day, that rivals 250 milligram of of testosterone per week, is like that much cream. Like next to nothing. I often say it's about the same amount of toothpaste you use on a toothbrush. Yeah. Um, you know, I I won't put it on my bowls now for people, but in terms of applying it, I mean, if if this was my scrotum here, I mean, I could pull my pants up now. Like, that's done. Like, that's that's done. There's no oil, there's no there's no smell, there's there's nothing to it. And, um, the convenience, one, is is is amazing. But two, the the thing that I find really beneficial is the the area that we talked about with guys being metabolically compromised is a problem. But the other two challenge areas I see is one, men with chronic pain, we see an increase in cortisol, an increase in prolactin in their blood work and those two things will drive down five alpha reductase expression. We also get a lot of guys who who have the post finasteride syndrome issue. But the other issue as well is we get guys who are on the SSRI anti-depressants and they're locked into them and all of these things result in reduced five alpha reductase activity. So I think that one of the underdisussed benefits I mean we know that we get significantly more exposure to the five alpha reductase enzyme through the skin. We put it on the scrotum because it absorbs with more bioavailability. But I think one of the other advantages and this is purely just my theory and I've spoken to a few people about this who tend to agree is that when you inject testosterone the esester is what gives it that kind of deliberate bottleneck. So you can get like a gradual slow release of it over time and that process happens in in the liver. So the liver has to cleave the esther off so the hormone can enter the bloodstream. So, one thing that I see a lot in guys who are metabolically compromised or or drinking too much alcohol and they need to fix that is is fatty liver disease. And I do wonder if all the dysfunction that happens in the liver with, you know, too much alcohol, too much body fat, fatty liver disease, or other medication use, if the liver functioning suboptimally is potentially one of the reasons that complicates the injectable testosterone protocol. And then when we can bypass that by just going straight into the bloodstream with a cream, I do wonder if that could be part of the reason why these guys don't get any of the other side effects as well. Very interesting. Yeah. Very interesting. And you've you mentioned it not to under express the importance of DHT too and the neurosides, right? like five alpha reductase doesn't just reduce testosterone, it reduces estradiol, cortisol, progesterone, all very important neurosteroids. Um this which is why nobody should ever use finestide or dutestasteride but um yeah very important. So the but the DHT is a very important neuroststereroid that really helps with the a lot of the the energy sense of well-being aspect um which allows you to do other things like make your life better. Also, what I wanted to comment on very interesting is because this conversation was at the perfect time because I didn't know much about the production of creams until recently when I started to realize that because I've always had the philosophy I have partnerships with 12 differenties and I'll go to whichever one best suits my my patient. when I started learning that there is a difference in the bases and different compoundingies make creams differently and like you said I've had reports of people coming back and saying that their cream was like chalky almost and dry and I was like what that doesn't make any sense and then and then I have a few patients who do better on versa based cream so I have to give them so it's like there's a difference and and some people actually do better on versabases opposed HRTbased And so now now it becomes nuanced and and cream becomes a little bit more complicated. But but but now that I understand a little better, I can actually better ship the clients. But yeah, you're right. There's a difference between the compoundingies that make it. There's a difference between the bases and it's it's important if you when you use cream to find the cream that works the best for you. I've been a fan of the of the hybrid, right? just because for some people they they do better on a the extra DHT conversion and b like the spikes of testosterone like some people need to be above a certain threshold of testosterone um in order to really have the benefits, right? And so if I can keep a a base of testosterone with the injectable and then allow them to increase on top of that with with some cream, a we can reduce the estrogen conversion because more is converting to DHT and then the DHT is really beneficial. Um, so I' I've had a lot of success with with that when when people have certain conditions. I think I'm going to steal for obese and overweight people to really just use the cream. We have that policy very much at at at my clinic where if someone, you know, if their blood work is severely metabolically disregulated or their body fat's particularly high, we just go look, we can do injections if you really want, but we really push cream to go look. And it's it's funny and um you know, as you know from the space, you know, patients are never happy no matter what. But um you get these guys who come back in who are like, you know, drinking a bunch, morbidly obese, not exercising. Like guys who are just like going, "This is going to be a real trouble case." And they come back and they go, "I'm sick of having to shave my balls." I'm like, "That's the only problem." And they're like, "Yeah, I'm just sick of it. It's really annoying." And I'm like I'm like, "Bro, we just like we just performed a miracle here." Um, so yeah, it's it and that that to me always makes me laugh because I'm going, man, if if this is the problem people are coming back with, like this is amazing. You touched on that before, too, right? Is that like is is the psyche. And that's a lot what I have to deal with is is is what we have to deal with is people's psyche and and you know, they have high anxiety about it. So, I've had people just want to quit testosterone just because of acne. you you got a few zits and you want to stop one of the most beneficial medications in the history of medications just because you got a few zits. Like we can control your acne like like or I've had people say, "Oh, well my foot started hurting. Should I stop my testosterone?" Like your foot like no. Why? That's it's that like people don't realize. They think a they're on testosterone so they're going to be like invincible and just like feel great all the time. There's like life still gets in the way. there's still fluctuations or or people like you like you indicated before, they'll they'll let these little things bother them and and everything becomes testosterone's fault. Like everything gets blamed on testosterone and life's still going to happen. You're still going to get sick. You're still going to have all these things and and it's usually not testosterone that caused all these things. But yeah, little things like, well, I don't want to shave my balls, so I guess I'm just going to quit testosterone. It just doesn't make any sense. It's it's it's crazy, man. It's, you know, uh I think Carl Yung referred to it as um when people develop neuroticism, which is kind of like this, you know, snowflake syndrome where because they become so stress sensitive because they're so soft, then these tiny stresses can be really really problematic. And a lot of the time when people are really concerned over these tiny issues, I'm like I'm like you should be really grateful that this is your biggest problem because like other people have real problems. Um but it it's I think it's it's a sometimes it can be this sorry he referred to it as neurosis not neuroticism neurosis and this this problem with neurosis that I've seen is that people and if you just go on Reddit and look at people's like post history you can see this perfectly but this neurosis thing that I've seen is that people will blame the most recent thing they did for the problems that they already had which were often the problems that led them to taking the thing in the first place. And um it's it it's it's you know the classic one is melatonin. I mean people will take melatonin. They'll go, "Oh, I stopped taking melatonin and now I can't sleep." And I'm like, "It's probably why you started taking the melatonin." Right. Um the underlying issues come back. But the other thing I'll touch on with the cream, just because I think it's it's it's worth noting is that um because everything comes down to, you know, actual day-to-day logistics with this stuff. And the this is called a topy click. And one of the advantages of the topy click is that you can get these quarter mil increments whereas the pumps are locked in a half mil. And the problem is, and I completely understand people doing this because I did it, too. But if you're on cream and you're a new TRT patient, you're going to go, "Oh, I'm just going to take a little extra half pump before I go to the gym." Like, everyone's going to do it. But the problem is that it sucks the other half pump of air back into the dispenser and it breaks the whole thing. Um, so those pump packs are really annoying because one, you're stuck in this half mil dose increment, but number two, you can break it really easily. Whereas the other thing that Keith points out is that you can put this in any international or domestic carry-on uh bag on a flight. Um, no problems at all. they're all the specific manufacturing of a topic click is all approved for all the different regulatory bodies and um I think in terms of the hybrid protocol so in Australia we we can never do it because it's hard enough to prescribe someone one thing but when I was thinking about it the other day because my friend Dr. Eric Serrano is being on the hybrid protocol as well. He spoke about that at the Silverback Summit recently. One of the problems with cream or the detractions is that, you know, if if you take a hundred guys and put them on 200 milligrams of testosterone in a week, you're going to get most guys get about the same response and then a few outliers either side, but most people are relatively clustered around a rough kind of ballpark. On cream, you get a lot more of the outliers north and south. And one of the challenges with the cream is that even if you get the best base and you get it made in the best way, some guys just get a pretty lackluster response to it. And you can only I mean it depends on how I guess big your scrotum is, but you can only get so much of this stuff on your bowl sack every 12 hours. I think another case for the the hybrid protocol is that if people do want to utilize the more conversion to DHT benefits of the cream, but they don't respond to it enough to use it as monotherapy, then that's where having an injectable baseline could also make a lot of sense. But at the same time, like I've seen guys who get like one click of this, like half of what I showed before, will take their testosterone levels to what an average guy would get on like 500 milligrams a week of testosterone. Like the bioavailability of the HRT base is nuts. But um you're right, the other one that works well is the Versa base. Those two tend to be the the the really popular ones. And um I think that I tend to favor the HRT base because we don't have Versa in Europe, but I know a couple of doctors in in the US who are who are like nothing wrong with HRT, but Versa works really well for them as well. So I think they're both main thing that guys can't do is just have an unspecified generic base because then you're just going to get, you know, whatever and that's not going to work. What What do you think about um application frequency? Because the the testosterone, like you said, it's the unsterified compound. So it's uh absorbs transdermally is immediately available for use. Do you like using it twice per day? Yeah. So there's most of the studies actually I think all of the studies on topical are done with a once daily application and the research shows that there's a pretty significant peak. I mean a lot of the time when people hear that something's on a halflife they think that it's an even distribution over the halfife. It's like having a cup of coffee and going, "Oh, I'm going to get a 4hour gradual increase in caffeine." It doesn't work like that. Exactly. What we find is the halflife is about 24 hours, but you get a pretty significant peak before. Once a day is totally okay, but it's not optimal. So, if people can only do it once a day, um that is fine, but twice a day is definitely preferable. One thing that's interesting is people will be concerned that the evening dose will disrupt sleep. I've only really seen that it helps sleep because I think we're getting this um big stress antagonism, you know, cortisol antagonism. We're getting adrenaline antagonism. We're getting people becoming more relaxed from being in a less stressed metabolic state. And it's kind of like how T3 before bed can even help some people sleep as well. But in practice, the real problem when it comes to cream application is transference during intimacy. So the problem can be, you know, if you sleep naked with your significant other, that tiny little bit of testosterone that you can rub off on her if you if you're cuddling at night, that can send her through the sky. Um, so that is something that people have to be conscious of, whether it's wearing underwear or or finding a way around that. But that's the that's the part that can be problematic for people is the the intimacy transference. Yeah. Okay. Interesting. Have you have you actually seen that where where females had a adverse response to to a little bit of testosterone? Really? Cuz like I mean just in my mind and this is just a theory. I've never really like put it into practice. But you're rubbing that that much on, you know, well it's it's just a quarter milligram, right? Or or a half a milligram on your scrotum. And then what they're going to be able to rub off after you've already rubbed it in. It's such a minute amount. And women need testosterone anyway. So if they do rub it a little bit of it, like I couldn't see it raising it so much that it that it makes any kind of difference or or has an adverse, but I don't have experience with it. So yeah. So, for example, like of of the same base cream, a woman's dose, you know, assuming that she's on like the the female kind of TRT equivalent thing is usually if a man's taking 20%, she'll typically be taking at 2%. So, it's about a tenth of the dose. Um, I I mean, I've never had it happen with with my wife or anyone who I've coached really closely, but I have seen guys send me their wife's blood work where their levels are like through the wazoo. Um, but I I really do think that it's not a matter of it transferring via intimacy. It's a matter of just not washing your hands after you put it on and and like that kind of thing. Um, yeah, I think the the amount that you would even be able to absorb, you know, from the scrotum, even sexually, is still quite low. But I guess it's more so that the risk is theoretical, but I think it's lower of the risk that people make it out to be. But it's just it's the thing that you just got to be conscious of after you put it on, you wash your hands really well and then go on about your day. But it's um less of an issue than people think, but it's just it's one of those things that I guess you have to be conscious of. Kind of like throwing your needles, you know. Very interesting. This has been a great conversation. I've really appreciated your time. I've learned a lot. So, this has been everything that I hoped it would be and and I think the it'll be everything that the listeners hop hoped it would be as well.