 what are some of the most common side effects you see on guys starting TRT? Is that high blood pressure, anxiety? I don't know. The major side effects of TRT, number one, you can't really have this discussion without mentioning it as infertility. Most men, especially on injectable testosterone, but even on compounded creams, their sperm counts will go way down. A lot of them will develop what's called azuspermia, meaning they won't have really... They'll be infertile, okay. Which is largely reversible, by the way, and treatable and preventable with other medications, but that is the most common side effect, is some degree of infertility. Another side effect is edema, or what we call water retention. The water retention that comes with testosterone and other androgens is quite annoying because from what I can tell, it's not always like a gravity-dependent thing. A lot of people, after they work all day, they notice that their legs are swollen. They develop what's called pitting edema, so they press on their ankle bone. They'll see an indentation. That's an indication of a lot of water in your extracellular space, so to speak. So testosterone can worsen that, but testosterone even can do things like bloat your face, you know, make you get water retention in your face. And we don't know all the reasons why testosterone does that. If you look in textbooks, they'll mention a bunch of different mechanisms that have never been proven. So that is a symptom, a potential symptom. Cognitive symptoms, yes, about anxiety. The thing we see most commonly is what we would say is mood-lability, which is not necessarily anxiety or depression, but moods that fluctuate rapidly, okay. So that could mean for certain patients they have much more anxiety. That could mean for some patients they experience a degree of euphoria. Actually, both of those are side effects. It's not good to get either of them, but can it happen? It can and it does happen. Sexual dysfunction can be a transient side effect to people starting testosterone. They can feel like their libidos lower or that it's good some days, bad some days. That typically resolves after three months. Same with any transient erectile function issues. Increased red blood cells, if you want to call that a side effect, obviously that happens in many patients. Acne definitely can be worsened by androgens. Testosterone can worsen sleep apnea too if it's untreated. It causes a component of central apnea. So actually technically it's unclear whether it actually worsens the obstructive component of the apnea, meaning how many times you have like hypopnic episodes where you don't fully breathe, you know, you don't get a full oxygenated breath, I guess, to be the way to say it. But it does cause a temporary worsening of your overall sleep architecture by causing a central sleep apnea component. And in two studies that effect goes away after about or is undetectable after about 18 months. And then the last thing is, well, there's two more things. Worsening male pattern hair loss, never really been proven that testosterone worsens that. In theory it could though, because male pattern hair loss is at least in very large part of DHT driven process. And remember from testosterone you get estradiol, you get DHT. So maybe by raising your DHT levels that can worsen your hair loss. What I'll say is that some men actually grow hair on testosterone on their scalp. So minority, but some do. There's a very complex relationship between low testosterone and scalp levels of hormones, such that some men, most men I would say won't really affect things like you're going to lose your hair anyway just because of your genetics. If you don't do anything about it, some men maybe it accelerates it, some actually grow hair weirdly and weirdly or not. The last thing is gynecomastia. Gynecomastia is where you get glandular breast tissue under your nipple and specifically under your nipple. Usually it's nodule that you can feel it's like mobile and it's often very painful too. So it's not like my, you know, my, I have what I call bitch tits or whatever. It's really, it's a glandular breast tissue that you can feel and it's like present there. You can even detect it on mammography or cut it out in surgery. So, and that's potential. Those are all the common side effects.