This one's a good one. How do you think TRT treatment will evolve over the next 5 to 10 years? Any new science to look out for in optimization? So, when I was in the US, I met the owner of a company called Kaiser who are making an oral version of testosterone. Um, so there are continued innovations in the field. Uh, recently people have also been talking about a nasal delivery option as well. Um, both of these options have drawbacks and limitations. Um, and even when speaking with uh with with with Kaiser, and I'm sure in the future he'd love to come on this channel and talk about the product, too. I can be happy to link that up. Um, they recognize that they will not replace injectables and and topical cream. It's more so they're adding another option to the market. Um, when it comes to the future of treatment, ideally the things that I'd love to see, I'd love to see an eststerized version of luteinizing hormone. I think that would be great if we could inject, you know, eststerized LH and FSH with testosterone. That would that would be fantastic. Then we wouldn't have to have this whole HCG discussion. Um, that would be cool. Um, I don't know if that'll happen, but I imagine the future will be finding a way that we can optimize levels without shutting down natural production. Um, that's the that's I think if if people are going to innovate further, that'll be the thing that innovates. I think the next chapter for TRT, and again, I don't gamble, but I'd probably bet money on this. when testosterone undeenoate which is known as riandrin or nido when that becomes generic I think that's going to not completely replace an nanthad and cypionate but basically with nibido they say you can do one shot every 3 months and have stable levels if that was the case you know four jabs a year that would be great it doesn't work like that but they also said that you could do one shot of an nanthate or cypionate every 2 to 3 weeks That didn't work out either. But if we could do a shot of undecinate every week and get the same stability as doing daily injections of cpionate and the undeinoate is still 200 or 250 milligram per mill if that became generically available I think that's going to be the next thing. So in the next five or 10 years when testosterone undecinate8 becomes generic, I think weekly shots of that for stability, I think that will be the next uh step for injectable testosterone. But I also think we're going to see a significant increase in the popularity of the transcrotal cream. Um I think Dr. Keith Nichols has kind of spearheaded and you know he's been talking about this stuff for years and his content has aged really well on it. um as well as you Stephen I mean you've been talking about this for a long time too and um I think that cream is going to become more and more popular purely because more people are discovering that in practice it works really well and I think that's that says a lot I mean we can have mechanistic theory and ideas and studies about stuff but in practice the cream works really well and it works really well for people who don't respond well to injections and I think that's a pretty remarkable thing So, I'd also recommend people check out Neil Ruseier's new book. It's called Hormones Demystified. I've got a copy of it around here somewhere, but it's a very layman's book. It's an easy read. Um, and if people want to learn more about the future of men's HRT, I think that more going into the full hormone optimization, so beyond TRT, which is the title of my book, but this kind of stuff that Neil's been talking about through World Link, Steven's been using it for a while, Keith's been talking about it for a while, going looking beyond TRT, but in terms of, you know, optimizing things like melatonin, thyroid, bringing alone DHEA, I think this is also going to be a big part of the future of it as