how to find the ideal protocol for one patient. I tend just to listen to the patient what their life looks like. It's as simple as that. So, I know there's a lot of stuff out there like uh when they say gels don't work. Don't ever touch them. No, no topical preparations. They're all rubbish. That's sometimes what the internet says. And I always tell patients, just hear me out and then I'll listen to you. So, I had one patient who was a traveling salesman, for example. They just wanted something to put in their suitcase. no messing about. That's it. And they're open to anything. Well, gel's quite a good option then. Especially if your symptoms aren't like crushing your life, then it's actually well, there's some logic in trying it then. You might have mild symptoms, the worst it could do is waste a bit of your time and it's easy to transport. And if you're traveling a lot abroad, for example, the gel's easy to take with you. Um, if for example, you've got young children, they're grabbing you all the time and things and persontoperson transfer is a problem, then probably stay away from the gels. E, even some of the reps are saying this. It's just not worth the risk of persontoerson transfer. If you've got a job where you're sweating, for example, then maybe the gel isn't so good for that. But if you've got clotting disorder, uh, then the gels, they're most gently absorbed. they don't they're associated with less clot risk and things like this, then I'd say that's a no-brainer that you'd have to try that first. Um, if you don't want to do something every day, then injections are good. Um, once a week injections, a lot of patients do well on that. I do recognize some don't. Some do get a mini peak and trough. You can do daily if you want, but then you're back to having to administer something every day, which may or may not be something you want to do. Um, I found that kind of two or three times a week injections for most patients tends to serve them quite well. And if it's um, and I know there's seven days in the week, how do you divide that by two or three? I just say Monday, Thursday for twice a week in the morning, Monday, Wednesday, Friday for three times a week. Don't worry about the Sunday. And and that pretty much sorts most things out. If you get it done in the morning, you can then get to a lab. You've got many opportunities to get your bloods done. uh where you can get a trough sample for us to analyze it. So I tend just to hear people out. I explain everything from start to finish how they all work. I answer any questions you may have come across on the internet in my consultations and then I just talk with you about uh what you think's best. Most of the time I want the patient just to be happy. So as long as they've not said anything that's unsafe, I'll totally go with what they've just said. And if you go into your treatment happy, then to me that says you're going to do the best. You're happy with it. So you'll go into it more relaxed. You won't be as apprehensive. And I I think you'll do better.