What are some of the most common side effects you see on guys starting TRT? Is that high blood pressure, anxiety? I don't know. The major side effects of TRT. Number one, you can't really have this discussion without mentioning it is infertility. Most men, especially on injectable testosterone, but even on compounded creams, their sperm counts will go way down. A lot of them will develop what's called auspermia meaning they won't have really they'll be infertile. Okay. Um which is largely reversible by the way or and treatable and preventable with other medications but that is the most common side effect is some degree of infertility. Another side effect is edema or what we call water retention. The water retention that comes with testosterone and other androgens is quite annoying because from what I can tell it's not always like a gravity dependent thing. So a lot of people after they work all day they notice their legs are are swollen. You know they develop what's called pitting edema. So they press on their ankle bone you'll see like an indentation. You know it's a indication of a lot of water in your extracellular space so to speak. So testosterone can worsen that. But testosterone even can do things like bloat your face, you know, make you get water retention in your face. And we don't know all the reasons why testosterone does that. If you look in textbooks, they'll mention a bunch of different mechanisms that have never been proven. Um, but that so that is a symptom, a potential symptom. Cognitive symptoms. You asked about anxiety. The thing we see most commonly is what we what we would say is mood liability which is not necessarily anxiety or depression but moods that fluctuate rapidly. Okay. Um so that could mean for certain patients they have much more anxiety. That could mean for some patients they experience a degree of euphoria. Actually both of those are side effects. It's not good to get either of them. Um but uh can it happen? It it can and it does happen. Sexual dysfunction can be a transient side effect to people starting testosterone. They can feel like their libido is lower or that it's good some days, bad some days. That typically resolves after 3 months. Same with any interransient erectile function issues. Um increased red blood cells if you want to call that a side effect that you know obviously that happens in many patients. Um acne definitely can be worsened by um by androgens. Um there it testosterone can worsen sleep apnea too if it's untreated. It causes a component of central apnea. So actually technically it's unclear whether it actually worsens the obstructive component of the apnea meaning how many times you have like hypopnic episodes where you don't fully breathe you know you don't get a full oxygenated breath I guess would be the way to say it. Um but it does cause a temporary worsening of your overall sleep architecture by uh causing uh a central sleep apnea component. And in two studies that effect is goes away after about or is undetectable after about 18 months. Um and then the last thing is well there's two more things. Worsening male pattern hair loss. never really been proven that testosterone worsens that. In theory, it could though because male pattern hair loss is at least in very large part a DHT driven process. And remember from testosterone, you get estradile, you get DHT. So maybe by raising your DHT levels that can worsen your hair loss. What I'll say is that some men actually grow hair on testosterone on their scalp. It's a minority, but some do. There's a very complex relationship between low testosterone and scalp levels of hormones such that some men, most men I would say won't really affect things like you're going to lose your hair anyway just because of your genetics if you don't do anything about it. Some men maybe it accelerates it. Some actually grow hair weirdly and weirdly or not. The last thing is gynecomastia. Gynecomastia is where you get uh glandular breast tissue under your nipple and specifically under your nipple. Usually it's a nodule that you can feel it's like mobile and it's often very painful too. So it's not like my you know my I [snorts] have what I call tits or whatever. Um it's really it's a glandular breast tissue that you can feel and it's it's like present there. You can even detect it on mam mimography or cut it out in surgery. So, and that's potential. Those are all the common side effects.