You got to stop your testosterone for a month. >> Let's talk about the reasons uh that some men have for stopping TRT. I read that a lot also in the Facebook group uh we manage. Um yeah, it didn't work for me. I just stopped. Uh do you hear that a lot in your practice? >> Yeah, I don't have a lot of guys that stop. I've had a few that just feel like Yeah, I mean we've tried multiple things and it just never ticked the boxes they wanted it to. I will I will say usually that is all about and I try to do this at the very beginning. Set expectations. Expectations in life are everything. >> Yeah. >> What is somebody expecting to happen versus what is appropriate to expect, you know, and so there's a mismatch there. A lot of guys think that when they get on testosterone, it's going to turn them into Arnold Schwarzenegger or they're going to be this way in the gym or they're going to look this way or they're going to want to have sex with their wife now every day. And it's like that's not true. uh even though we set those expectations up front, some guys still have it in their head based on buddies they're talking to or stuff they're reading online and they get that in their head and then they're disappointed when that doesn't happen. And and I get it. That's that's totally legit. If that if it's not right for them, it's not right for them. Um I think in a lot of group the group we see guys stop because they were given pretty crappy protocols to begin with. So they're being thrown on aromatase inhibitors, poor injection frequencies, uh not willing to explore symptom resolution, frequent phbotoies, all the things the red flags we talked about that will drive people away because they're like, "Yeah, I got on this and I was promised the world and I actually got worse." Uh and that's a red flag when you see guys in general, people should not get worse if you're if you're doing TRT the right way in my opinion. Um, now there can be some transient time periods where things get worse, like those first four to six weeks or a couple months with water return and weird things happening because your body's just got to get used to it. That would be another reason people probably prematurely stop is they're not willing to give it enough time. A lot of guys think that these results are going to come quicker than they should. Um, and then they get frustrated. They're like, "Oh, I've been I mean, I had a guy who was like on it two weeks. He's like, "I don't feel any different." I'm like, "I know. We we talked about this many times. Like, you're not going to feel different yet. It's this is a a long haul thing and you still have to work on your lifestyle. That's the other thing. A lot of guys drop out because they're not willing to address all the things. Now, some do. Some come and they're hitting all the boxes already. Those are the guys that generally get better on TRT, right? Because they're already doing all the right stuff, but there's still that one missing piece. Throw that in and like, "Yep, that was it. I'm great. I'm good." But these guys that like you try to really talk to about all their multiaceted variables in their life and they acknowledge it, but then they get on the testosterone. They just want it to do all the work and then they get disappointed when that doesn't happen. And I'm like, have you changed your diet? Show me what Oh, well, no, we're still busy. We're still doing I'm like, there's no excuses. Those are excuses, but you can overcome them. Like, you just have to want it. And that's I mean, that's like with anything in life. If you truly want it, you'll make it happen. You know, in general, especially when it comes to dietary choices and food. I mean, anybody can make enough food on a Sunday and a Wednesday to last them the whole week. I mean, you just can. Um, it doesn't have to be anything fancy. You know, I ate ground beef and rice for lunch every day and I got leftover the next day. It's not hard. Uh, it takes me 10 minutes, you know, to do that. So, um, I do think that's a big part of it though is is and that's not just in the hormone world. That's in a lot of things in life is people are expectations are not properly set and then people get disappointed when their own expectations aren't met and they drop out and it's like well you had the wrong expectations on that. That's not everybody. There are some people it just doesn't it just doesn't work. You know, it doesn't tick the right boxes for whatever reason. A lot of guys will drop out for fertility purposes because they're told they have to. Not in my clinic. Uh I've had a few that do it on their own and then come back and tell me and I'm like, "Why didn't you reach me?" like like I can walk you through this, you know, that's why I'm here. That's part of the model. Uh I'm available all the time. Um because I would tell them, "No, we can do FSH, HCG, all these other things, and it works almost every time." So, but a lot of guys are ripped off their testosterone from their providers to quote unquote regain their fertility, and then they feel like crap. Um so, that would be another dropout, even though it's not really necessarily a voluntary one probably on their part, per se, but um they're they're being fed something that's not true. And the same thing with hematocrit stuff like they'll be told you've got to you know I see primary care providers all the time that'll tell people they'll check their hematocrit and it'll be 54 and they're like you got to stop your testosterone for a month. It's like what what is wrong with you? What are you talking about? Like 10 years ago 55 was normal top of normal range like first of all but they don't even know that. So it is what it is. But those would probably be the main reasons for dropout. I would say poor protocol and wrong expectations. And could it also be that um they don't feel optimized yet because they need some other hormone optimized like DHEA or pregnnolone? >> Maybe. I haven't quite seen that yet. As far as the dropout part, I've had a few guys where we did add like pregnnolone and that ticked the one remaining box, but they were never going to stop their TRT because of that. Yeah, that was an an extra thing where you're trying to tease through and go, well, can we find something else that might tick that box? In general, I've only seen that a few times. I'm I'm not a huge pregnant alone DHA fan. I think Prague over DHEA. DHEA is kind of dirty to me uh in general as far as the effects I've seen in a lot of guys who try it and myself included. But everybody's different. I know Dave's a big fan of it. Uh but I think he he would agree it depends on the person and depends on the context. Um but yeah, for most things they need to dial in their lifestyles first before they start searching out other chemicals. That's the main thing I see. And I see the same thing with guys on TRT who aren't getting the gains in the gym that they think they should be getting. And so they're like, "Oh, I want to add an I want to add this." And I'm like, "Send me your workout routine in your diet first of all." And they don't they're not there yet. They're not even close to being there. And I'm like, "You can't go start jumping on anabolics when you don't you're not doing the basics. Testosterone by itself, even in quote unquote replacement doses, can do more than people realize from a muscle building standpoint. It is very powerful. I am able to lose fat without losing muscle in a calorie deficit on testosterone cream by itself. Nothing else. Um the myth and fear that I used to have of of losing muscle, I think it's because I used to work out the wrong way when I was dieting and not have my nutrition dialed in while I was dieting the right way. Um and now the testosterone on top, I don't really have to worry about it. Now, yeah, if I wanted to get stage lean and still maintain every ounce of muscle, would I need to add an anabolic? Maybe. But a lot of those are cosmetic only. And that's the other thing people don't realize about a lot of these things they want to add. I got guys asking about adding like anavar to their TRT regimen. It's like why do you want to add a methylated steroid? Are you going to take this long term? Like I wouldn't. And then in general, those are just cosmetic effects. Like from a muscle building standpoint, these are pretty equal across the board. testosterone, nandulo anavar, like they as far as nitrogen retention, all these things, these markers that they look at, but it's the other effects people are after that they want to take. So, a cosmetic effect from an oral, well, fine. If you're getting ready for a photo shoot or a competition, um, but something just to be on to be on it, like, no, just work out harder, bump up your testosterone. If you're g, you know, if you're going to go the underground route, try testosterone first. I mean, really. And if you can't tolerate it, okay, fine. Try something else. But in general, people just want to add stuff to add stuff, I think, because they feel it's the FOMO, right? It's their fear of missing out. And they hear all these people constantly talking. And I used to have that in the in the performance world, in steroid world, you always want to do these exotic cycles, try these different things. And at the end of the day, the meat and potatoes basics works. Low and slow works. You don't need these gram plus unless you're at that high level. But if you're just a gym rat wanting to look better, man, a little goes a long way. You just need to dial in your nutrition and your training and your stress and sleep and the the hormones are just the icing on the top.