Can you give us some reasons men quit testosterone replacement therapy? >> Some reasons uh why someone may quit? >> Yeah. >> So, I am of a belief that if you begin testosterone replacement for the correct reasons, you should stay on it forever. Now, my office will not start someone on testosterone for any reason outside of what we deem to be a medical deficiency. Medical deficiencies are not necessarily defined by clinical numbers in and of themselves as a guideline, but that is certainly a part of it. They are also defined by lifestyle variables, age, uh symptoms, etc. So if we determine you are deficient or that the potential risks which we mitigate quite well are minimal compared to the potential reward of going on therapy, we will initiate therapy and generally that will be a lifelong or presumably hopefully a lifelong venture. We don't feel that there is a reason to ever come off testosterone replacement when it's managed correctly or when you get on for the right reasons. And therefore I see no medical reason for someone to discontinue treatment unless there are environmental factors or selfdestructive factors. So for example, I will not treat smokers. I will not treat people who are severely or morbidly obese. Uh I will make sure that all of that is addressed prior to initiating therapy. And that is because the risk associated of liability to us is greater with those individuals. With that said, that is just my philosophy on on treatment. With that said, there are people who often choose to come off for various reasons. It could be a personal decision which I don't necessarily have to agree with but I have to respect from a patient's perspective or it may be another provider who disagrees with the treatment and talks the patient into coming off which again I don't have to agree with but often times I have to sort of mitigate uh why people come off people come off because they feel that they're not feeling a tangible benefit to treatment which often times I try to tell patients there's many intangible benefits that you may not necessarily feel it doesn't mean the treatment is not working for you. It just means that if your symptoms are unresolved by treatment perhaps those specific symptoms are secondary to other causes which you should explore. Uh sometimes people have a provider who doesn't feel that they should be on testosterone whether it be a urologist, endocrinologist, cardiologist or primary care provider and they talk them into coming off treatment. Again, I don't necessarily agree with it, but those are the most common reasons that I see why men discontinue treatment. Um like I said, I don't agree with them, but uh those are probably the most common. >> Sure. Um yeah and and the common reasons like high hematocrit or um a PSA that is too high all those things >> right that's usually why another provider will tell them to come off again we don't necessarily agree with that philosophy we believe that the testosterone in of itself does not cause harm in those scenarios but if those scenarios exist they should be explored for the main culprit or the the reason why they exist and that should be rectified rather than just pulling someone off therapy and allowing them to suffer and often times they just spiral into worse health overall. So, um but yeah, a lot of people believe that testosterone is the evil force behind some of these unwanted uh outcomes and it's it's a shame.