being in the slightly more functional medicine space and and kind of having that that background. I tend to use more supplements than not. I'm probably like you, Stephen. I take more supplements than uh God probably has ever intended a human to take. Uh but I enjoy it. Um there are some, you know, basic supplements and and I've heard them discussed on here. Um you know, vitamin D3 is fantastic. The literature is very clear. Um it is a hormone in and of itself. It's a steroid hormone. We we understand that now. Um I frankly think vitamin D is horrendously underdosed much like all the other hormones tend to be in in the conventional side of things. So you know I personally take 10,000 international units of vitamin D3 per day at minimum. Uh when I'm sick I will take uh and by the way this is not a medical recommendation. You should ask your provider for this but I would typically increase it to 50,000 units a day for for a few days to get over the cold. Um, so it has I I dose um, you know, similarly I've had patients with autoimmune diseases uh, where I might have them take literally a 100,000 units of vitamin D3 every single day. Um, and and and again I'm monitoring blood work with that because you know we do have to be a little bit cautious there. But um, those patients I think it's you know logical they probably use up so much of it because they are in such dire positions. Um, I never see their blood work their blood levels go above you know 100 or 200 even. So, >> um, you know, zinc is another great one. I I think it's is a no-brainer. Um, a lot of people, especially if they're not eating a lot of red meat, are going to be extremely zinc deficient. Um, you know, I'm a big fan of colostrum. I don't know if that's something you've ever tried. Uh, colostrum is unbelievable um, as a supplement. So, you know, if you guys think of colostrum, it's like, you know, a mammal uh, a mother's, you know, first milk that she produces. Uh, your mom did when you were little. Uh, and we are getting this essentially from cows typically. So, bovine uh colostrum and then it's, you know, it's concentrated. So, um a lot of people even if they have, you know, mild dairy allergies, this would not generally bother them. Um and it's just packed with immunogloabbulins. Um there are peptides in there, uh which we we know are are fantastic for for healing the gut lining and and uh essentially acting almost as a prebiotic. Um and there's been amazing studies showing how colostrum prevents colds and flu and and stuff um even in comparison to many other things. So, I love I love those three. If you know, if I had to pick, those three are awesome. >> Yeah, sure. Um, and what's your stand on omega-3 fish oils? You recommend them as well? >> I you know, that's a good one, Stephen. I I recently started doing some deep dives on omega-3s in general. Um, I I I think there is absolutely a time and place for them. where I'm where I'm not certain about them necessarily is that and and do I don't know if you've ever uh heard of a gentleman Dr. Ray Pete. Um he he's he was he died gosh that might have been a year ago now two years ago. He was a really interesting gentleman. I highly I think you would really like his work. Um he did a lot of work uh he was a PhD uh researcher did a lot of work in in progesterone and and thyroid. Um, and he had this really interesting opinion on on omega-3s as they, you know, essentially are masking inflammation. Um, and we know they're they are unbelievable at treating inflammation. Uh, they're unbelievable at treating autoimmune diseases. Um, but he had this opinion of, well, if you're inflamed, what's causing that? And and he always suggested, you know, more on the hormone replacement therapy side of things. if you're hypothyroid or you're low progesterone. At any rate, um omega-3s uh tend to be uh sourced from polyunsaturated fatty acids or PUFAs, which which again we're hearing a little bit more. It's in the zeitgeist now of is this safe? Is this a good idea? Um and again, most omega-3s are coming from fish oils. They're extremely highly oxidized, so they break down really quickly. um and they tend to do quite dilitterious things in our system and and act as oxidants essentially. Um so I I've kind of taken a step back and and thought through you know is that something we want to be taking every single day because as we accumulate these poffas in our body um you know they also can can tend to breed some uh what we call lipo fuskin. Is is that familiar to you Stephen from like the dermatology world? Um, so, so even you know the age spots that you see on on older gentlemen and women are are essentially lipopuskin guys. So, um, and and they're they're not something you generally want to have a lot of because they're not just on the surface of the skin either. But, um, again, if we can kind of limit our PUFA consumption, that would be best. Probably really concentrated omega-3s, you know, don't fall in totally within that line. But I also see people taking crazy amounts of PUFA, like six grams, nine grams a day. Um, and I think that's probably overkill.