Testosterone placement has historically been known for its role in treating androgen deficiency, but I think there's I think there's actually a place for it that would be extremely beneficial outside of merely just treating people who actually have overt hypogonatism. And in my opinion that that place that testosterone would really shine are in those people who are diabetic, those who have high amounts of visceral atapost tissue as well as people that are classified as metabolic syndrome type patients. What we know is that testosterone does increase glucose utilization. It increases insulin sensitivity. It increases lipid disposal. It upregulates your body's metabolic processes in response to these metabolic dysfunctions. But what the newer literature is also showing us is that metabolic dysfunction, diabetes, obesity, those metabolic compromised states actually negatively impact the androgen receptor itself. There's androgen receptors all throughout the body. There's androgen receptors in the pancreatic cells, pancreatic eyelet cells. There's antino receptors in your atapost tissue, your skeletal muscle, your brain, they're practically scared all throughout your body, your liver tissue. And so when you are metabolically compromised, when you're obese, you have a high state of a lot of reactive oxygen species. And reactive oxygen species are produced by the mitochondria of these respective cells. Now when these cells are impacted negatively such as a highly inflammatory state for instance fatty liver disease, obesity, diabetes, the mitochondria of these respective cells in their respective tissue, they no longer work efficiently. Now if you don't know what the mitochondria are, they're essentially little bitty combustible engines. They're like little bitty lawnmower engines inside of these cells. And as you age, their ability slowly declines. Now, if you metabolically compromise them, well, you're going to compromise their ability to perform even worse. This leads to more negative consequences. But what we know is that there's androgen receptors in all these respective tissues. And androgen receptor expression can actually upregulate the mitochondrial activity of the mitochondria in these respective tissues. Even in people who are not diabetic, merely introducing exogenous testosterone to them can actually increase their glucose utilization and insulin sensitivity. We now know that if you have someone who is overtly diabetic, that's almost synonymous with them needing to also be evaluated for hypogonatism because the presentation of low testosterone is now starting to co-occur in the presentation of someone who's metabolically compromised. There's even more literature suggesting that people who are diabetic overtly go ahead just go ahead and screen them for low testosterone because there's a high probability they probably will have it or do have it. I think there's a case to be made for people who are clinically overtly diabetic and some resistant. I think you should actually go ahead and treat them for an androgen deficiency. I think you should actually consider them a clinical candidate for exogenous testosterone replacement therapy. I mean, for for one, we know that having one of those clinical conditions can actually negate the benefits of their own indogenous testosterone production. And two, we also know that those clinical conditions can also interfere with their androgen receptors. So, chances are they may not even be responding to their own indogous production of testosterone. So, I think you should actually possibly go ahead and consider them for TRT. And this is even regardless despite what their levels look like. Let's say you've got a type two diabetic with high amounts of visceral fat. We know they're very metabolically compromised and let's say what hypothetically their testosterone 600. So what? They're not responding to it. Their receptors are not responding to it. I truly do think there should be a case for patients like this. You should probably just go ahead and consider treatment. And lastly, beyond testosterone, we also know that there's a similar relationship, similar role with uh metabolic syndrome, type two diabetes, as well as its relationship with DHEAS. But that's beyond the scope of this video. We'll talk about another time. Thanks for watching.