If men are optimized, what your experience concerning their total and free tea levels on which they feel good with all symptoms gone. So this is something that differs for everybody. So as I go through that process where we're evaluating people every 3 months eventually, yes, we do get to a point where your body composition is ideal for longevity. Okay, which what is that? It's usually for men a percent body fat 15 to 20%. It's higher if they have heart disease. If they're totally healthy, maybe like 12 to 15%. There's some evidence that's the best. Okay. Um, and then skeletal muscle we want to be good. You know, there's no exact target. We want to be definitely above normal, not low, right? Okay. So, and that's going to differ um for everybody based on their, you know, height, weight, genetics, things like that. So, what do I do when all that body composition stuff is perfect? Well, what we try to target is a testosterone trough level of around a thousand. We do not use free testosterone targets. Why? Because the very limited long-term epidemiology is all using total testosterone levels, not free testosterone levels. And free testosterone levels are very useful for people who are not on testosterone. like determining for example when you put someone on TRT very early their change in free testosterone is more predictive of of of um better symptomatic improvement than their total testosterone level. Okay, so that is true but that's on a short time scale and then the other studies are looking at free testosterone and people who aren't diagnosed. So people who have normal total testosterone below free testosterone, those patients can still benefit from TRT. So it's important to know that when you've been on TRT for several years, your free testosterone I don't think is nearly as relevant. At this current moment with the current evidence and studies that we have right now. So, someone who's been on testosterone for three years, who I've helped get from 40% body fat down to maybe like 18 20%. Okay. I'm not as worried about what their trough testosterone level is as what their total testosterone level is. And the general target is about around a thousand around a thousand. >> Now, the important thing for to say though is that is not possible in most men. it's not possible to maintain adequate body composition and um while also of course we want to limit side effects like we don't want you know if people are having side effects we don't push their dose higher like right away so assuming all that stuff is okay um some men have to tolerate higher levels just to maintain their body composition and I found that what happens is I'll get a guy okay we've reached your body composition goals you're on a low dose of a GOP1 or maybe off the simaglletide or trapatide completely um but your total is like 1,400 let's say let's decrease the dose by 5 to 10% then 3 months later everything again all your labs body composition now when I do that the first time they may come back and their levels 1250 or something but their body composition stayed good and It feels good. They don't feel any worse. Okay, let's try another five or 10%. >> Okay, 3 months later, everything is still good. They feel pretty good. And now we're maybe at 1,100. I have found with a lot of experience, if I try to do a third 10% reduction, more than 50% of the time, I'm going to cause problems. Their body composition is going to go the other way. They're going to start feeling not as good. I'm going to cause issues. So, I just don't usually do it after two. Okay. Um, and patients that are really concerned about wanting to get to a thousand, which vast majority aren't. Um, but in ones who are, okay, then yeah, we'll cut again. The problem is once you once long term, once you go down and you start to feel worse and your body composition starts to worsen, a lot of times if I go back to your old dose, that that won't even fully work. And I don't know if that's a mental effect or a a drug effect. It's probably a combination of both. So yes, I try to target a total level of around a thousand. That's a trough level. So that'd be the day that you inject before you inject. So let's say you're injecting every four days. Okay? It'd be on the fourth day at the time you'd inject before you inject. That's what we look for. And like I and based on how frequently some people inject it's also not possible even to get to that level. But you know everybody is different and um a lot of it is also a risk tolerance thing. There are some guys in their 60s and I'm like you know your total testosterone level is 1300. We don't know that's safe. It could shorten your life. Maybe it's associated heart attack strokes 5 10 years in the future. I don't give AI feel good. Just leave everything alone. Please, for the love, just please leave everything alone. That's different than a guy who's 32, okay, who has hopefully many, many decades in front of him. We want to be more cautious, right? Because we don't technically have super long-term safety studies on TRT, the way most people administer TRT. >> One remark on your uh 1,000 total testosterone in the chat box. Uh, what about people with high SHBG? Uh, Simon says, "I got on TRT when my total testosterone was 1,200." >> Like he started TRT when his total testosterone was,200. >> That's what he says. But he says uh when people have a very high SHBG, you can the PT will be low. >> Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So when I say t when I say a everybody that's why I said everybody's different you know um somebody with there are certain people with congenally very high SHPG what should happen is when they get androgens it should lower their SHPG 90% of the time it does especially with like synthetic well I guess testosterone is a synthetic androgen technically but non-testosterone androgens including many orals will usually very potently lower your SHG that doesn't happened to everybody and so yeah pat some patients have to have doses that are higher because their SHBG is higher and that's the way it is and um I'm not sure if there was a question in what he said but yeah it's not like a strict thing like I was explaining it's an in very highly individualistic thing >> okay I have a a physician patient right now for example his total testosterone level is higher than a thousand I'll just put it to you like that. His SHBG is very high. He's like, "It is what it is. If you lower the dose, I feel terrible. So, I guess we got to stay at this one." His dose is still would be considered a TRT dose, but it's higher than the majority of patients. >> But that's an example of a doctor with, >> you know, so yeah, everybody's uh has to be treated differently. For me, >> unlike a lot of TRT clinics, I'm not like, how do you feel? Do you feel better today than the day you came in when we had this dose? I care a lot more about body composition. I do care about people's sex drive, libido, especially if those things are getting worse. But um and work related performance. I I ask and I care about all those things, side effects, blood pressure, but body composition to me is where all the a lot of the money is at because that's what's really going to move the needle for somebody. Okay. giving somebody these lower doses of testosterone for years and oh maybe I feel a little bit better but their body composition doesn't change you're not doing much for them medically I mean that's like I told you I had that guy he started testosterone body fat 35% now it's 37 now maybe it would have been much higher had he not been on testosterone almost guaranteed it would have >> but you ought to be a little bit more aggressive than that we live in an environment that poisons us constantly um in many many ways. This is going to be what my second book is about um is about you know environmental endocrine disrupting chemicals. The biggest one is the our light environment that we live in uh causes circadian rhythm disruption. So it's unavoidable uh for men in our society to avoid things that tend to not only lower their testosterone levels but promote metabolic disease in general. And you can see that just in the um you know just in the statistics right we used to have in this country a childhood obesity rate of less than 1%. Now it's about 20%. Okay. Um 5% of adults in the US had high blood pressure. Now it's like 50%. 120 million people. Okay. And then if you look at like med just diabetes used to be 1% now it's like close to 15%. And 40% of people have what's called pre-diabetes. So in the span of a hundred years our society has gotten significantly sicker than what we were. >> Yeah. >> Do we have worse medical care today than we did 100 years ago? No. We have all this fancy technology. We have all these drugs. We have a variety of novel weight loss drugs and things like that. Um, but the problem has slowly, not even slowly, the problem has pretty rapidly gotten much, much worse. And it's the environmental issues causing or promoting the metabolic syndrome and then the testosterone issue is downstream of all the metabolic issues. The good thing is it looks like from many recent studies that testosterone can help reverse a lot of the metabolic dysfunction that men are living under and pretty safely but with a lot of long-term unknowns.