Would you recommend starting TRT after using peeds for more than seven years in my 20ies? No, I am off since about 6 years, but I feel low libido. I tried for a short time, 3 months, 100 mgram test. Okay. So one thing that's common in the what I've seen from the bodybuilding space and this is just what I've observed is that there's this mentality which is that if you blast with a really high dose of steroids then you cruise at like a really low level of TRT and then that's going to level out as healthy. That's not how it works. Um that's like saying if I drink 50 beers on Saturday and no beers for the other six days then I'll be fine. Um, no it doesn't work like that. So the like unless you're really sensitive to it, 100 milligrams a week of testosterone ananth is probably hypogonadal territory. I mean that's that's too low for most people. So unless you're really sensitive to it, there would be no therapeutic response to being on 100 milligrams of testosterone and out there a week. um that's like a a overcompensating cruise level that bodybuilders do, but that would make that would basically be hypogonatal for most people. Now, I can't tell you that you should or shouldn't go on TRT, but you absolutely should look into it. In in my experience, if men do steroid cycles prior to the age of 25, especially if they're doing it long term and like permablasting for a long period, the chance of you coming off that and and and having recovery of optimal and levels, even if you do whatever people would consider like the best PCT in the world, I mean, I I wouldn't I wouldn't bet on those odds. Um I I'd bet a significant amount of money against it. Um, and I don't gamble. So that that would be a you definitely want to look into it. And the first mistake you made was just doing your own TRT and thinking that was going to work. So don't do that. Um, learn from your previous mistake of, you know, hijacking your endocrine system and damaging your hormone production and go to someone who is a specialist and a good provider or a good clinic. And, you know, this group is full of them. you know, between my clinics in in Australia and Europe, uh the great partnered clinics that we all speak about in the UK, clinics like Eden Clinic or AlphaGenics or Balance My Hormones. Um and then all the great providers we have in the US in this group, any of these providers who are, you know, worth what they do. They're not going to judge you or or not give you access to treatment because of your history. They're going to go, "Oh, this guy probably does need treatment." I mean, I started TRT when I was 25. Um, and if you've used anabolic steroids in your youth and you've damaged your endocrine system and you're still in your 20s, it's really important for you to seek treatment if if you do need it and you are indeed hypogonatal because otherwise you're going to age and deteriorate at such a rapid rate that by the time you get into your 30s and 40s, you're going to be in a pretty poor state of health. So, a good clinic and provider will be very compassionate to this. They will work with you. Um, if you worked with one of my clinics, we'd give you the hard word from the get-go and say once you start prescribed TRT, you can't go back and just blast steroids because you're giving your word to your provider of what you're going to do. So, if you want to do TRT, be a good patient. Do it responsibly. Listen to your provider. But this is absolutely something that you should look into. Hey, hey, hey.