What are some uh TRT clinic red flags? Because that's very important to a lot of guys coming into the groups and newbies to this channel. >> I'm going to give you the big picture of what a red flag is to me and then I'm going to dive into the the micro details of why that is a red flag. The biggest red flag to me as a provider of testosterone to thousands of men around the country is when someone is on TRT through a provider who accepts health insurance. Not to say that the fact that you accept health insurance necessarily means that you're doing things differently, but it always turns out to be that way. Providers who accept insurance are paid in a model where they have to do volume. You literally cannot make a living as a provider if you're seeing a low volume of patients on a day-to-day basis. If you're seeing one to two patients per hour with insurance, you cannot make a living. All insurancebased models operate on a 30 to 50 patient a day scenario. And you only get paid for the office visits. So, they have to drag you in. By definition, providers who are insurance-based or credentialed with insurance companies for reimbursement do not optimize the level of studying and research and clinical experience and literally building their entire practice around dosing hormones correctly for men. And the reason for that is that is not what pays their bills. That is a small portion of where they actually make their living. The big part of where they make their living is other areas of medicine. And because of that they will never do a good job compared to someone who literally just focuses on this one aspect who is a subsp specialist of the specialty. Us as subsp specialists we cannot accept insurance because insurance doesn't pay us what we need to be paid in order to do the job that we do for the amount of people that we do it for. So, a provider who accepts insurance by definition of the way the system is designed will not do a proper job on men's hormones. So, insurance-based providers, first red flag for me. Second red flag, even with all the testosterone clinics that are cashbased, if they check things like estrogen or estradi in a man, they clearly do not understand the intricacies of endocrinology versus introinology versus metabolites or exogenous hormones or how all of this plays together. So, if they test your estradile, it is a red flag. If they prescribe, and I don't care if they don't prescribe it to you, and I don't care if they said only use it if you need it, and I don't care if they said you don't need it for now, but you may need it in the future. If they ever wrote a prescription to any man for an aromatase inhibitor, they are completely clueless about anything to do with man's hormones. You need to leave that clinic immediately. Even if they don't force it on you, if it is in their repertoire, they are a bad clinic. Period. End of the story. We can spend the next hour explaining why we won't do it here, but we have plenty of videos on this. So again, they prescribe an aromatase inhibitor to anyone. Garbage clinic. Period. End the story. Um, so don't test estrogen, don't block estrogen. Those are the two big ones. If you're seeking insurance based providers, you're going about this the completely wrong way. Uh, those are probably the top red flags. Uh if they have a guideline of numbers where they say if your total tea is here you qualify. If it's here you don't qualify. That's utter nonsense because they're chasing numbers. If they make you donate blood every two months, three months, four months continuously and an ongoing neverending cycle. Terrible clinic. Get out fast. Um, if they try to prescribe you, you know, a dozen different medications to counteract side effects from the other medications they give you. If they prescribe you anabolic steroids like aone and an angelone and all this other, get out. They are a money grab. They are a steroid clinic. They are not going to look out for your health. You may feel great initially. You're gonna shorten your lifespan and you're going to run into a slew of problems down the line. So unfortunately all of the things I just mentioned are the norm and the commonality in this industry. All red flags. All red flags. Terrible.