In this video, we're talking about oral testosterone replacement therapy and back with us as a guest is Dr. Cash. Some people call me. Welcome back. Hey, thanks. Um yeah, so oral testosterone um it's it's really one of those things that uh you know, I think you have to look at the history of it as well because it's really a um it's come out basically in two different categories. So, in the past, oral testosterone was rightfully so um considered liver toxic. Um 17 alpha methylation and uh that means it's going to the liver, it's getting processed through the liver, it's toxic to the liver, and for obvious reasons, it was uh removed from the market. So, that was kind of the history of oral testosterone and that's how some uh physicians um you know, NPs, PAs, and current health care professionals tend to have historically uh viewed oral testosterone. What hap- what has happened in previous years and more more recent years rather is that uh oral testosterone essentially got, you know, you could say remade to be absorbed through the lymphatic system, you know, specifically through the gastrointestinal lymphatic system. And that's very important because that means that um now we're able to take a pill with testosterone in it that rely that absorbs into your bloodstream without any liver toxicity. It's kind of the the bottom line of oral testosterone. And so, now we have basically have a new modality or new method of taking We have your injections, your topicals. Obviously, over the years we've had our pellets and patches and things like that and you know, that's for a different video, I think, but uh um but you know, a pill is a simple option. It People take pills, various pills, whether it's their vitamin D, blood pressure medication, Tylenol, whatever it is. So, for it's a it's a new modality, a safe option of testosterone delivery. So, I think that's kind of the first key step. Um then the next steps come in and that's, you know, we get into like efficacy, get into side effects, you get into, you know, absorption, comparison to other modalities. And so, uh right now we have um you know, there's been generic uh oral testosterone undecanoate. That's uh been on the market and so, here in Canada um uh oral testosterone is off the market for a little bit of time. The generic came back and then we have Jatenzo and Kyzatrex. That's uh two brand um uh oral testosterone products that are on the market here, uh at least in North America. And so, um but really uh what these medications are doing is you're taking, you know, twice daily testosterone essentially and uh you're titrating the dose. You're doing lab monitoring within the same uh parameters as you would with um roughly the same as you would with injections and topicals. And you're adjusting to, you know, symptoms essentially. So, I think the uh a lot of the you know, on the um practitioner side, a lot of people may not have as much experience with oral testosterone and for a good reason. I mean, to some extent, it's a little bit newer com- in comparison to like injections that have been around forever, for example, and topicals that have been around forever. Um but the a lot of it is really the same. A lot of what we're doing as far as monitoring, titration, adjustments, a lot of it is the same. And so, uh generally, we'll start patients off at a pretty good dose. We'll have them do labs in about four or five weeks. Um the key uh thing with uh oral testosterone is they should take it with food in order to make sure there's optimal absorption and optimal bioavailability. And so, that's one area where things can get a little murky if um patients aren't taking with food. um we check labs typically about four or five hours after taking a dose. So, a bit of a slight contrast to injections, for example, where the hours don't really matter. It's really the days that matter. Um but uh for the most part, there's a lot of room for error though with checking because uh there's a there's a bigger range. So, if a patient checks a little too soon too late, the levels are relatively stable. um we'll typically do monitoring after about four or five weeks. We'll make an adjustment. A lot of patients after the first set of labs will need an upward dose adjustment typically. Um we adjust to symptoms a lot, especially with the given the lymphatic absorption. I find that um you know, sometimes the serum levels don't always fully reflect how the patient feels. And so, the patients a lot of times, they may feel great. Um and so, uh that's from speaking with some other other physicians that do um prescribe oral testosterone and is they find that um they really like to even more so focus on symptoms than anything else. So, even more so than you would often do with injectables. You look and see what works for that personal patient and you find the right dose for them. Um there's not as much fine-tuning involved. Again, as long as they're taking it with food and they're taking it, you know, spread out throughout the day like within a reasonable amount of time, you're spreading your dose out 10, 12 hours or so, they're pretty much okay with that. I mean, it's a pretty simple thing to take. It's just a matter of remembering to take the pill. Um in terms of the like I guess the reasoning for why we need another why we need this modality of treatment. So, there's going to be patients who don't want to inject, right? I think we all run into those patients. They don't want to inject for various reasons. They're not comfortable injecting, they're not able to get into a clinic, or whatever reason. I mean, they could be all the way across the country, who knows, right? They're not comfortable injecting and there's a lot of patients who don't do as well with topicals. Some patients do great with topicals and they do amazing with it. Some patients don't. Um that's just how it is. And even with some of the um um compounding creams, some of patients don't do well with it. And then with creams, obviously, cross uh you know, transfer risk to others. That's a bit of a risk. Some people don't want to take that risk. They have a new baby, so on, for whatever reason. So, having a pill option just gives a another thing they can go for if they're in a situation where like, I don't want to inject and I have a baby. I can't I don't want a cream on me. So, it gives them an option. And then for others, when we talk about what's available, like, hey, um you know, uh you can take a pill, you can do this, you can do that. There's different options. Here's kind of the pros and cons. And they're like, I was I want to try pill first. I'll try for a couple months, see how I like it. If I don't like it, maybe I'll switch to injections. And I think that's totally fine. And I think one good thing about the the pills is it's easy to switch around to. So, like I got a patient they want to go from pills to topicals, easy to do. You can do the change or shift almost immediately. You want to switch from pills to injections, very easy to do. Very easy to shift around. So, I think uh there's a lot of flexibility with it. Um the main downside, I mean, the two downsides really is um one, they can't really forget. They forget, they're going to get some ups and downs in their levels, which we all know is not good. And then two, like anything else, it might not work well for some people. Absorption could be variable. Um you know, and I think uh my personal opinion is some patients who may have um malabsorption issues, if they have inflammatory bowel disease, they've had gastrointestinal surgery in the past, um you know, Crohn's disease, maybe celiac disease. I mean, it depends. Like, I don't want to say any hard facts here, but I think if someone has issues absorbing for whatever medical reason through their gastrointestinal tract, like if they have they can't absorb vitamins well, they can't absorb fats well, they've had bariatric surgery. I mean, there's various patients like that. And I think I probably would pause a little bit before offering that to them as like a good recommendation. I mean, they can certainly try it out for a couple months and see how they feel. And but uh I think at the same time, I would be telling them, hey, listen, you're taking a pill. We already know that you might not absorb certain medications that well. So, just FYI, just in the background, keep in mind you might have to switch to something else. And the monitoring really is the same. I mean, we'll do labs usually about four or five weeks with these patients. Um and uh we're kind of watching the same things um with again with the a lot of patients I find we often do need to go up on their dose after the first set of labs. Um I don't see a whole lot of um erythrocytosis. You know, I think with injectables, you're going to see a little bit more of that spike of the erythrocytosis with the the EPO stimulation, the bone marrow stimulation with injectables, just with that spike that happens. But uh likewise, I find I find pills are it's not as um soft, let's say, on the erythrocytosis as gels and topicals are. Uh I really say topicals rather than gels, but it's not as it's not it's not as soft on that, but it's kind of a middle ground. So, um and then uh don't really see a whole lot in terms of any immediate side effects. Um, I don't get any gastrointestinal upset. I don't see a whole lot don't really see a whole lot of that. So um, I think that's a it's an option. That's how I usually tell patients. Doesn't mean that like this is what you should take but it's an option. What about the cost in comparison to injections or creams? Yeah, so the the I would say so here uh and I think probably similarly in the US. Um, so injections are generally going to be on the cheapest side. And uh pills will be a little bit on the pricier side. I would say as you move from generic to brand based pills, um the price goes up a bit and we start getting into the realm of around compounded cream pricing territory. Mhm. And so yeah, it's a little I would say if you're going for like ideal products when it comes to the pills, the price is going to be a little bit on the upper ends. So that's yeah, it's definitely important to factor in. Whereas injections will be on the lower ends of pricing. All right. So obviously uh at least here we'll you know, factor in whether Well, again, I'll present it as an option to the patients, but obviously if they have a drug plan or if they just want it and don't don't care about the pricing. But uh yeah, I do I do tell them ahead of time that the the pricing for this could be a little bit more on the upper end. Pricing for injections is more on the lower ends. But then you got your guys that are like, "I will never ever inject." So Yeah. Yeah. And you told us that especially with pills, you focus more on symptoms like most providers do for creams and injections as well. Um, but that the levels um don't get that high maybe. Yeah, I find that what we typically see is that I talked with many people who also um most very recently actually in the last week. I've talked to some people who uh do quite a bit of pills. And uh what I find is that yeah, the levels don't get as high typically, but we get a lot of patients who feel great on you know, again, we go up on the dose, the levels do climb up a bit. But it there does seem to be a bit of um almost like a plateauing effect to to a small extent. And so um the we do get levels in the upper ends of you know, the normal ranges, but we patients start feeling better even before that. And so um, I think there might be a bit of a disconnect because of that lymphatic absorption, there could be a bit of a disconnect between what we're really seeing in serum levels and maybe what we're really getting at the androgen receptor level. I think there's probably a bit of a disconnect there and so um it becomes a just a case of hey, saying "You feel great? Yeah. Do you want any changes?" Nope, I feel perfect. And they acknowledge their level is let's say good or decent and that's kind of the yeah, that's um so we'll titrate up upward in terms of uh s- improving their symptoms and getting them feeling really good. Um, but the levels don't always get as high as we would expect. But I think uh I think the lymphatic absorption just plays a major role into that. And I think the and I think that the at the androgen receptor level, we're just not seeing the same effect as we would um like reflected in the serum levels as we do with injectables and topicals. Yeah. That's very interesting, yeah. Yeah.