First of all, thank you for hosting me on your channel, which I have been following for a long time now, which I have been swabbing and which I recommend to all my patients and to keep up to date, unfortunately, the replacement therapy of the third salon, TRT in Italy, is still not well regarded, it remains a taboo, the testosterone hormone is not well known, therefore it is easily administered insulin, hormonal thyroid and only progestins, even for contraceptive purposes in women, but testosterone replacement therapy for cultural reasons and lack of knowledge is not yet applied. As it should be in Italy, it can essentially be handled by the endocrinologist specialist, who, however, I have noticed, often pays more attention to thyroid or pancreatic pathologies and the andrologist, which is my specialty, clearly is a therapy that has costs, I am not able to quantify them, but I assume that a course of hormone replacement therapy including periodic analyses, purchase of the drug and check-ups is around 1,500 euros in total. Generally speaking, it is also possible to do telemedicine, I often do it with patients if preferable at least  First of all, a personal account to get to know each other and to understand if the patient is able to self-administer the therapy. The products essentially used are injection therapy with testosterone enanthate. Seven forms of gel on which I partially believe you propose an excellent trans and scrotal cream that is easily absorbed and easily transformed into DHT which is an excellent product that I hope to clear. Little by little here in Italy there are then other formulas of bioidentical hormones that are, let's say, expressed used more for an anti-aging purpose. But essentially the main product is injection therapy with testosterone enanthate. I often use the protocol with weekly administration of testosterone enanthate using approximately 125 mg of product including the being. I then tend to check the patient's response six weeks later, essentially on the hematocrit and estrogen. Clearly the doctor who deals with TRT must have skills that go outside his narrow specialty. There may be a need to control the hematocrit by often combining natural molecules with vitamin K2. The act of Nasi from  Go to Gina clearly recommend hydration and aerobic activity sometimes molecules such as cardioaspirin or in extreme cases bloodletting. We must however recognize that the increase in hematocrit in this case are the TNT patient is often caused by an increase in red blood cells therefore an erythrocytosis and not a true polycythemia where instead there is also an increase in white blood cells and platelets are two different situations therefore the increase in TNT hematocrit must be seen with a more benevolent eye I certainly have to deal with it often in those cases we also tend, as it is technically said, to split to divide its administrations into weekly micro-administrations where there is probably a lesser aggression on the receptors also in the bone marrow on the androgynous belts of the bone marrow the same goes for estrogens some patients tend to aromatize more easily the phenolic ring of testosterone is aromatized precisely the aromatic ring, the formation of estrogens essentially 17 beta estradiol but let's not forget that estrone also exists and clearly an excess of estrogens can lead to some problems. poor bido problems of water retention and essentially in this case we also have to act or by reducing the dosage or better still dividing it micro weekly Dodi or by inserting anti- aromatase molecules that prevent excessive aromatization of testosterone clearly when there are too high levels of estrogen such as peripheral problems such as nipple pain went gynecomastia took over for a limited period with peripheral anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen nolvadex. As regards the edema it is often associated precisely with an increase in estrogen for which it is also accompanied by an increase in blood pressure. I include tennis altans which on a saltano which among other things also tends to be protective against the nephron. Here are all the small precautions that clearly must be and managed by the doctor who tends to deal with hormone replacement therapy is a patient who must be followed and the patient himself Must have the perseverance and the economic and cultural potential to do everything that is asked of him during this path. The questions Store dedicated for Life This is a  important problem because we talked about TRT, that is, testosterone replacement when there is a clinical need. There are cases in which the word TRT means the administration of testosterone for purely aesthetic or sporting purposes. In this case, however, let's remember that we are suppressing the activity of our organism. If I am on hormone replacement therapy, my testosterone is no longer produced by my gonads, by my testicle, but I am replacing it, but clearly. Here I am also talking to you about myself. I will turn 58 in September and even a slightly advanced age can be done very well at 40 if necessary even at 20, but starting a replacement therapy without a clinical need assessed by the doctor can unfortunately lead to a suppression of the axis, so you start for fun. I am talking to you about testosterone, then there are people who combine other androgenic and anabolic molecules, in that case we suppress our axis, which can recover for a short time. But if the fact continues, then there will be a sort of condemnation, truly TNT. So on this point it is very delicate, I support the  TRT is an excellent therapy for the well-being of men. The third salon must not go to excessive levels, it must be optimized, but not that it clearly increases the use of testosterone in young people to improve psychophysical performance if they are already normal, unless you have first tried all the therapies and lifestyle, dietary, nutraceutical and, if necessary, stimulatory before arriving at a hormone replacement therapy. Well, I have answered your questions. I hope in a satisfactory manner, I have explained to you the Italian reality managed by a few people and I hope you enjoyed our first meeting and I await other questions that may be related to all aspects and the world of TNT, including, for example, fertility or many other aspects. I greet you and all your subscribers to the channel.