I would say my youngest patients tend to be, you know, in their in their mid to mid20s, early 30s. Um, you know, a lot of my slightly younger patients, again, it's just a lot of education. Um, you know, I I for one, again, do do not believe that a young man should not be able to have access to something like testosterone if they need it. Um, you know, but you and I both know also there are young men who are not eating the way they should, are not sleeping the way they should, training the way they should. So, you know, I I do start conservatively. Um, if there's a way in which we can, you know, not necessarily prevent you from using testosterone, but push you in a position where you potentially don't need it. I I'd rather go in that direction first. Um, but again, a lot of my young men uh are born um I like to say behind the eightball in the sense that they they they had no real shot at ever having normal hormone levels. So then it becomes a lot of education around well how can we maintain testicular function? Um would would the addition of HCG uh be appropriate in this situation? If you can't afford HCG, you know, could we consider testosterone and then potentially adding HCG in the future? We talk about crier preservation, you know, as as kind of a golden insurance policy around that sort of thing. Um, and I'll tell you, my young men have just been so um appreciative because again, they have been kicked around by probably beginning with their pediatrician to then their primary care provider for so long. Um, I think it just feels validating and and rewarding to actually, you know, be able to speak about these things and not be embarrassed uh to ask for testosterone like as if they're some sort of, you know, drug abusing bodybuilder or something crazy like that. And, uh, why do they come to your practice? Because they're already experiencing some low testosterone symptoms. Yeah, the vast majority of them uh, do uh, you know, and and I think most of them, I'm very fortunate, most of them are referrals from other young men who have been in similar positions. Um, similarly, I I see a lot of females uh and and they, you know, maybe they're in their mid 20s or early 30s and they're saying, "Gosh, Nico, I'm feeling so much better. My cycles are so much more regular. My libido is fantastic. You know, my boyfriend, he's been on a Zoloft for, you know, 10 years and he's miserable. I I I'd be curious if you could help him." So, it's a really nice, again, I love seeing both sexes for that reason because we we get a lot of referrals that way, which is great. All right. So um why why why do women come to your practice? Are they also experiencing some test um hormone related symptoms? Absolutely. Um you know I I I think females probably just certainly beat us in terms of feeling worse than we do and and I think a big position or a big part of that is probably because of that estrogen disrupting uh endocrine disrupting chemicals the the estrogen mimicking hormones. Um, women, young women especially, produce tremendous amount of estrogen. Most of them do. Uh, that's that's the game is they produce a ton of estrogen. Uh, and they turn into these beautiful young women and then they start producing a ton of progesterone and it should flip back and forth essentially throughout the cycle. Um, and and I kind of think of it almost as probably they're experiencing a stacking effect where now they're around constantly these xenoestrogens, these fake estrogens, and that's on top of their already quite high estrogen loads that they're producing. And that's slowly also pushing down their progesterone. Um, and and all the typical female problems that exist are all, generally speaking, low progesterone problems and high estrogen problems. So we think you know from the most severe uh PCOS or polycystic ovarian syndrome uh endometriosis uh you know certain types of uh um mental health issues especially like premenstrual dysphoric disorder um these are if you're looking at the data these are all sharply on the rise um and all of them at least from my understanding looking at the research really have estrogenic components. Estrogen is, you know, and this isn't to bash estrogen and estradiol especially, it's a fantastic hormone. Uh, if it's in balance and in a good relationship, but once estrogen gets a little bit too dominant, so to speak, we start seeing estrogenics very excitatory in the nervous system, uh, so much so that it can push these poor women into a psychosis of sorts, which is like like a premenstrual dysphoric disorder. um is very frightening and they can feel suicidal, sometimes homicidal even uh just for this short window of time when they just have so much estrogen going. Um and then you know on the other side of things, estrogen is extremely good at growing things. Um that's it's a primordial substance to help things grow. Um and and so if you think of endometriosis and polycystic ovaries, uh a lot of those are just again so much estrogen, such little progesterone. Progesterone being the stop gap, you know, the yin to the yang. progesterone is saying that's enough, that's plenty, relax, calm down. Um and and so again, when I see women in my clinic, it's primarily for those problems. Uh and obviously, you know, we get into fertility and cycles and all those sorts of things. Um it's it's so rampant right now. I mean, my young girls here in the United States, I think nine or 10 is the average age for menration right now. Um which is incredibly young. Incredibly young. Yeah. Same here. Um so the first thing you get young women on if they are symptomatical maybe bad night sleeping sweaty at night is progesterone. Absolutely. Uh you know I always tell women progesterone is what uh is to women what testosterone is to men in a lot of ways. I think I I think progesterone is truly the the female hormone. Um and especially for those younger women who are miserable. Um, you know, so many so many men, I think, are in a good position in terms of understanding that testosterone is so vital. Um, I think women are still in a position where they're seeing hormone replacement therapy as something they do when they're older, when when they go through pmenopause and menopause where it's it's actually no, it's the same it's we're in the same boat. Uh, and and so progesterone and and thyroid by far probably the most common. Um, but testosterone as well. Uh, I do treat a lot of women uh young women with testosterone. You just have to be careful if they're, you know, wanting to get pregnant because it can be, uh, you know, harmful to the fetus potentially.