What are the biggest differences between men getting on TRT when they're very young, relatively 30, 35, uh, in comparison to when they are a bit older, 45, 50 or over? Are there any differences? And if so, what are they? Yeah. Uh, it it's common to see both of these age groups. uh we see everyone from very young fairly young ages um even in their 20s um all the way up to people who are in their 80s still wanting to optimize their health. So um it's not uncommon that I I see you know a patient in room one that's 30 years old and a guy in room two that's 60 year years old and when you look at their lab results and you don't know which one's which they look almost identical. So the first thing I would say is there's a lot of similarities between the two. They oftent times have the same severity of their symptoms and they have the same severity of hypogonatism in their lab results. Um the differences between the two is that when you give a 30-year-old testosterone, he might improve a little bit faster because he might not have as many complicated um um other medical issues going on at the same time. Um he might not have as much polyarm pharmacy going on, although that's not always true. We have a lot of young guys being put on a lot of medications early on too now um that complicate things. But I do sometimes see those 30-year-olds improve a little quicker right out the gate with just testosterone versus the 60-year-old um oftentimes needs other hormonal support and consideration of other issues like um microvascular damage. um if their main concern is erectile dysfunction or um even endurance and cardiovascular health. Yeah. What I've learned through the years doing these videos from Dave Lee and as from Dr. Keith Nichols is that um men that are a little bit older 45 50 um they they might all need optimization of all the hormones at once pregnolone, DHEA, meatonin and so on. while the younger guys can start out with just testosterone and they won't probably need the DHEM pregnone. Is that also your experience? Yeah. Yeah, I agree with that. And then also mentioning thyroid in there as a another thing to look at and consider as part of the whole picture. Um but thyroid is one that some younger guys do need as well. And um you know even though some younger guys don't need DHEA and pregnant alone, there oftentimes are still some issues there with younger guys too, especially I see with shift workers um and um like veterans too. Um but I I do agree that usually it's the older guys that you have to look at starting all of those things at once. Um, you know, some other differences would be, you know, the younger guys are more prone to side effects like acne. I don't oftentimes have six-year-olds experience acne on testosterone, but the 30-year-old usually has at least a little bit, if not um, more moderate amounts, which I'm sure you have a lot of experiencing, too.