Welcome to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel. And for the first time with us is Dr. Farzam. It's difficult to pronounce your first name, I guess. >> Yeah. Yeah. I go by Cash. So, yeah. Dr. Cash. Some people call me. [laughter] >> All right. So, uh maybe let's start by uh introducing yourself. >> Yeah. So, I'm a physician based in uh in Canada. I'm uh about one hour west of uh west of Toronto. Um, I grew up in Canada. I do emergency medicine full-time. I also do TRT and weight loss medicine and hair loss medicine um in uh out here in Kitchener, Ontario, just outside of Toronto. And I've been a focused practice in men's health for a while now. And I also do econultations for other physicians in Canada as well. [snorts] >> Awesome. All right. And then today we're talking about male pattern baldness or maybe baldness in general and on TRT. >> Yeah. So I think the appro my approach to hair loss and what I teach to others as well is that um the first step is making sure the diagnosis is correct. So uh for some people they might start losing hair and the automatic assumption might be that it's definitely male pattern baldness. And I think the my first step is make sure the diagnosis is correct. You can have hair loss from fungal infections. You're going to have hair loss from autoimmune illness. I mean, a patient could have lupus. You could have alopecia ariata. I mean, there's all kinds of different presentations, different systemic illnesses where um you know, hair loss could be a symptom. It doesn't mean that's the it's only male pattern baldness. So, and I tell that to patients as well when they first come in, it's make sure the diagnosis is correct first. So once we've concluded the diagnosis is male pattern baldness, I think the next step afterwards is well at least what I tell people is well it's a personal choice on what you want to do. Um if they have male pattern baldness, well you want to decide you want to you know does it matter for you? Does it not matter? I mean that's kind of what it comes down to. If it doesn't matter great, no problem at all. I mean it's a personal choice. um if it does matter then I think you know from I guess from our standpoint from the on the you're sitting on the opposite end of the patient then we can present some options and so that my [clears throat] I think first step is always making sure patient understands why it's happening and especially for our patients who are on TRT it's a common question they ask is about hair loss and whether it gets worse whether it can cause hair loss and I think the I [clears throat] like to take a step back and tell patients hey Listen, like um a lot of people or as I should say, most men have some level of predisposition to hair loss. As you get older, hair will thin, hair will fall out. That's natural, you know, timeline [clears throat] events in life. And so what I usually um will tell them is um you know like uh once someone hits puberty, once they make testosterone, once that process of testosterone conversion, DHT happens, um some people are predisposed to male pattern baldness, their hair can thin, their hair can fall out. Now the reason why that happens I mean so the hair follicles um can have essentially multiple levels of predisposition to you know I don't want to use the term toxicity but really I mean the DHT that hydro testosterone can be damaging to hair follicles um you know at different extents depending on the patient's uh um genetic predisposition. What's happening is you have testosterone it converts to diet testosterone through the enzyme falafroductase predominantly five alpha reductase 2 and uh that DHT then can bind to various tissues in the body um you know obviously the most one of the most the prostate being one of the you know prominent ones that we know about but certainly it binds to the hair follicles and a lot of that process happens as a um you know as an intric process And uh when that DHT binds there, it basically um will cause shortening of the antigen phase. It'll lead to hair thinning, miniaturization the hair over time, but over these repeat cycles the hair falls out. And it's a bit of a spectrum because a lot of men will have very small levels of susceptibility. A lot of men will have um very major levels of susceptibility to that DHT. And as this uh process happens um for someone who introduces testosterone more testosterone in the body with testosterone replacement therapy you're getting a little bit of upregulation in that DHT process just because you're feeding some more substrate into that process. And so um what's very important to know is that when someone post takes TRT you're not causing the hair loss. If someone has pre-existing predisposition to hair loss, then that process can get a little bit accelerated. So, that's the key thing that I like to really point out because you want to make sure a patient comes in, they take TRT, they're not thinking, well, now I'm going to lose all my hair. I mean, you know, we have to make sure we are very clear on that. And I think um [clears throat] more and more patients seem to understand that nowadays, but you're accelerating a process that's already going to be happening to begin with. And um it is a major like spectrum too because a lot of men will have very limited amounts of hair loss. Some men will have very significant amounts of hair loss at age 19 20. Some guys when they're like 58 they might start noticing more and more thinning thing and so it's a wide spectrum and a lot of that has to do with the differences in the five alpha reductes a lot of the different genes that affect um prostaglandins and localized inflammation in the scalp. There's multiple things that play a role. And then I think when we get into the treatment options um because I think that's where you start to get into some controversy on certain medications. So uh for me I like to list out all the different uh options that are available. So I mean topical minoxidal is um you know one of the most main stays of treatment um you know here in Canada, United States. It's just over the counter. You can just go pick it up from your pharmacy, apply it. Um I'm not sure if that's the case in Europe, but it's a it's over the counter, but um and that's usually a mainstay treatment. You're not really targeting that whole five uh five alpha reductase DHT um mechanism. You're more so through five or six different mechanisms stimulating more and more hair growth. And so topical minoxidil actually becomes a bit of a treatment option for other types of hair loss as well like telogen and fluvium and other kinds of hair loss rather than just solely for male pattern baldness. I mean women can also routinely use it. Um side point it is toxic to some pets. So I think a bit of a um bit of FYI for some people who use it. Then on the same minoxidal side um you know it doesn't work that well for some people and one reason we run into that is some men have or I shouldn't say some men some humans in general have a um a deficiency in the enzyme uh salt 101 and so minoxidil as a drug when it's applied it's actually a prod drug it has to convert to the active form through the enzyme salt one sulfur transferase and So some men have or sorry some people have a deficiency in that enzyme. And so um what we can do is we can apply a medication like adapylene to the scalp as an adjunct with the minoxidil to help upregulate that conversion of the minoxidil to its active form. Um and then uh it the applane also because it helps increase skin cell turnover. It also incre increases penetration of that minoxul into the deep into the scalp. So um it helps improve the um absorption close to on par with like the oral minoxidil and oral minoxidal another option too. Old blood pressure medication um a lot of the people here some people dermatologists still will prescribe for hair loss. Um I will occasionally prescribe it for some patients depending on what options are available. Um it does have um you know in the United States the FDA they put a blackbox warning for like spontaneous paricardial fusion. So it's a risk um you know it's one of an informed risk benefit discussion with the patient. Um I will sometimes use it for other kinds of hair loss as well. Um but it's a risk calculation I think like anything else. And then uh more famously I think obvious or infamously finasteride um you know approved in many countries for treatment of androgenic alipcia usually use that 1 milligram daily dosing and uh with you're shutting off that five alpha reductase pathway well shouldn't say shutting down you're doing a reduction by about 70% and so you're getting decreased DHT at the scalp um you're getting efficacy in terms of uh um improving the hair loss. And then there's the trade-off risk where you carry a background risk of you know um sexual dysfunction, erectile dysfunction, libido, mood changes and so on. And then uh with the caveat that a subset of those people when they discontinue the finasteride might not have recovery of that um of those of those you know uh you know physiologic processes like normal sexual function. And so this is one of those cases where you ultimately uh you know my take on it is you try uh look at the studies you look at this where the patient specifically and you look at the data I would say [clears throat] data that's more neutral objective and then you know they can make an informed decision what they want to do um dutasteride is another option I don't prescribe that in my practice generally for um hair loss um just with the the systemic side effect risk I mean I think It's quite uh quite profound. Um and then topical uh finasteride and dutasteride are um options and the topical finasteride should ideally have about um I would say pretty minimal. Again, this is one of those compounding pharmacy things where it's like you don't know for sure like how reliable it is and went from one pharmacy to the next to other guy to the other town. It's there's gonna be variability and so um but if you're getting a good product I mean it should be the p the absorption should be adequate the systemic absorption should be minimal that's I guess you could say theoretically speaking that's how it should be um a little bit pricier um but it's an option um on the list on our list of options topical dutasteride um theoretically again this is just more more consider more academic but theoretically it's an option but um the molecule size quite big and so I've been I guess a little skeptical on how it's getting against the scalp but um I do recall seeing one piece of data that showed there was absorption but again I would say a little more academic perhaps um dutasteride misotherapy so the rationale being you're injecting dutasteride about you know 3 to four millimeters into the the scalp and you're [snorts] um getting very localized absorption with minimal systemic absorption. And the rationale why dutasteride is used is um the long halflife essentially. And so you're able to do periodic injections every couple months and lower that localized DHT without getting systemic absorption of DHT. And uh I think when you move past I mean you have your DHT blockade medications, you have your minoxal blockade medications, then you start moving into some other class of cosmetic treatments essentially PRP, PRF, right? Like therapy and so on. Um so that's kind of under the cosmetic umbrella. Of course, you have your hair transplant option. People will get hair transplant will still need some maintenance therapy afterwards. I think some people who pursue hair transplant don't always know that, but often need some maintenance therapy after. And so I think for the patient who starts on TRT, I think it's really just they need to know if you have a predisposition. That's a big if. Then there could be an acceleration of that process on TRT. Um and then it's really just that they're aware of it. Doesn't mean that we tell them, hey, you need to care about this. It's just personal choice. If they care about it, they need to know that it can accelerate that process. Doesn't actually mean that'll happen. I mean, I do have some patients who have a little bit of um you know background androgenic alopecia who go on TRT and they don't generally get much worsening of their hair loss and then uh from there it's really just monitoring I mean if someone wants to intervene on it then we can intervene with them if they don't want to intervene then we don't need to um and then beyond that it just you know just remains a a personal choice um you know and then I get questions about supplements I tell them well supplements probably if you're taking some like biotin or something it's not gonna you know, you're not going to go from major thinning to like complete reversal of that. Um, there's other things like ketoconol shampoo, localized anti-DHD effects. Maybe it works as an adjunct, a little add-on. I'm not sure it's like a it's not going to completely reverse the process. And then um and then obviously making sure their diet, lifestyle, everything's optimized, stressors, and so on. I do see patients with mixed taggenlovium and um androgenic alipcia. It's like well they're very stressed and they're losing hair from that and simultaneously they're also pain. So got to make sure we don't mix those two things up. >> What do you think about combining minoxidil or topical finasteride with a micro needling at home? >> Yeah, I think uh definitely the combination therapy I think can work mechanistically can work quite well. Um we actually have a lot of products here that are um automatically like combined therapy topical topical combined agents. They can apply them twice a day because a lot of the patients you'll tell them um you know like apply this twice a day apply this twice a day but then you get to the reality of it. It's like the person has a greasy scalp basically 24 hours a day. So um I think combined therapy I think can work quite well with minoxidil and the topical finasteride. you avoid systemic absorption risk of the finastride as well. Micro needling I think has especially when combined with other agents like that I think has some reasonably good evidence behind it efficacy. So I think it's a pretty good option. >> Mhm. Okay. >> Yeah, that's clear. Um that's my experience as well. I prescribe a lot of minoxidil um very rarely finasteride because I'm a bit afraid of the post finasteride syndrome reviews and witnesses that I had on the channel already. So >> yeah, I don't I don't take it too far. I try to reason with them and uh explain that it's just a normal process, not a disease. And yeah, that it's just genetically if you're prone to it, it might accelerate a little bit and that's all. Yeah. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think they understand that it's not like a a disease that they're getting. I think that's the key part. >> Yeah. >> Um genetic predisposition, it's not a cause either because I think >> um some people get afraid that like oh well I took TRT and that's why like this is going to happen. It's the same thing with the heart disease and the prostate and everything, right? It's in that whole same umbrella of like listen like these are not the causes. >> TRT is not the cause of these things. Mhm. >> And so yeah, if you have genetic predisposition, then you have genetic predisposition, right? And then obviously making sure it's not a completely different diagnosis either. >> Yeah. Personally, I lost my hair way before TRT. My grandfather lost his hair without TRT whatsoever. So yeah, if you're genetically prone to it, you might as well accept it. And uh >> yeah, but that's difficult for young guys. If they come to me 22 years old, 25, and they're thinning. Yeah, it's difficult to accept sometimes and we we might try something to uh postpone the the shedding.