IGF-1. Do you ever use IGF-1 uh in your clinic? Does it have a place in the HRT business? >> We don't prescribe IGF-1 LR3 because it is heavily scrutinized and we try to keep a clean operation. We try to take care of patients from a health first perspective while also staying within various guidelines of FDA and other regulatory agencies. And I feel we can do a good job as we have both making patients happy and healthier while also maintaining um a clean line of you know lensure and and and and keeping regulators happy. So we don't use that particular peptide. What we do use is we use other IGF-1 or growth hormone secrets like Samorin which is FDA approved for humans. We use tessamorin which is very similar to samorin has a better affinity for visceral fat reduction. Uh it does tend to be a little pricier than samorin which is why both options are very viable. Both of those do a great job with IGF-1. Um and and they are safer than a lot of the other things out there. Um testosterone in and of itself generally tends to raise IGF-1 levels as well. So when a man initiates TRT and it's done correctly and managed correctly, you'll notice an upswing in IGF-1 over time as well, even in the absence of any uh IGF analog or secret and sleep quality sleep will help IGF-1 as well and a reduction in in car carbohydrates. So it's not your opinion that every man 45 50 that is already optimized on testosterone should also explore using GH or an analog. >> I I I'm very cautious in using the word every man because when you make a blanket statement like that you're encompassing everyone and you're taking away the ability to assess people as individuals. saying every man know there are contra indications to IGF-1 elevations for example the known presence of cancer right we know that cancer is proliferated with an increase in IGF-1 and uh if someone has uh known and present cancer then obviously it's contraindicated if someone is a type 2 diabetic or insulin resistant or pre-diabetic or has an elevated A1c or elevated fasted sugar or elevated insulin levels all of those things may potentially be contraindicated for IGF-1 therapy so to say every man abs Absolutely not to say a lot of men can benefit from it. Yes. Considering all of these conditions have been discussed, assessed and taken into account before issuing a prescription. >> Mhm. Uh if I remember correctly, you do prefer uh secrets above HGH, right? >> Absolutely. We have never and never will prescribe recumbent human growth hormone because when you prescribe an exogenous hormone much like we do with testosterone, we know that there's a couple of things that occur. First and foremost, you have suppression and that suppression with testosterone is fine because you are suppressing something that is already deficient and presumably needs to be replaced indefinitely. when you're suppressing growth hormone, considering the fact that there are much bigger risks and significant side effect profiles and contraindications that tes the generally does not have and it's significantly a you know very pricey endeavor. This is not something you want to do forever and you don't want to suppress someone's ability to release growth hormone out of their pituitary because if that condition becomes irreversible or becomes deficient to an extent in the future where they're dependent on this ex exogenous medication, you're relegating them to a position where they may not be able to get that medication due to cost prohibition, due to regulatory issues or due to side effect profile issues that make it a contra indication. And if any of those conditions exist, this individual is now in a world of trouble. So I don't like them for that reason, coupled by the fact that from a regulatory standpoint, they are heavily scrutinized. So secrets are significantly safer and you don't run all of those risks, including acromegaly and cardomegaly and you know uh uh uh progressing type 2 diabetes and progressing existing cancers. All things that are significantly less uh profound with a secret gut compared to a a uh synthetic uh uh exogenous uh growth hormone.