So, welcome to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel. And we have a new guest today, Mike Belulkin. Welcome, Mike. >> Oh, thanks for having me here, Dr. Dvos. Great to be here. Hu huge huge fan of your your channel and your Facebook page. So, happy to be a guest. >> Yeah, thank you so much. So, maybe introduce yourself. Uh um how did you become um provider for TRT? Sure. Sure. Yeah. So, my name is Mike Belulin. I'm a nurse practitioner. Uh I live in Phoenix, Arizona. Um you know, I started my started my healthc career an age myself, but it goes, you know, I've been doing in this in healthcare in some way or another for about 30 years or so. Uh but along the way, yeah, so I've been a you know, ER nurse, ICU nurse. I saw a lot of um a lot of people who waited too long to take control of their health and had some pretty dire consequences. So, it really kind of kind of pushed me into the field of um you know, wellness, wellness medicine. What can we do to keep people healthy, keep them out of those places, keep them out of those situations, get them back to doing the things they want to do. [snorts] And it just really kind of dovetailed into the rest of the way I like to live my life. I'm someone who's always been into fitness and, you know, working out since I'm a teenager and trying to take good care of myself. Um, so it's really it's a it's a nice kind of medicine to to to practice. So now I'm enjoying most of my days helping people stay healthy and stay out of those bad, you know, those bad situations. But yeah, so I'm in I'm in Phoenix. Um I have a tele medicine clinic here. So I see patients in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, uh Washington, Montana. And uh you know, we really the the main focus is fixing hormones and fixing metabolic health so people can live a better, you know, a better life. Um yeah, that's kind of that's kind of the long and short of it. >> Awesome. I understood you um have a special interest in helping older guys say older is relative um yeah to become healthier, more uh independent when they grow really old. Um so why that interest? Why is it um so important for men in general getting older to be uh strong, active, and independent? >> Sure. I mean, we want to get the most time we can out of what you know what we have on this planet, right? So, it's never it's never too late. I see a lot of people think, "Oh, I should have done this when I was younger and they just kind of let it fall, you know, to the wayside." And that's just it's just not true. I mean, ideally, yeah, you've been doing this stuff your whole life. You're taking care of yourself. You're building up that, you know, that uh you know, that that currency to to bring into your older years, but it's never never too late to start. Um there's even some good, you know, some good research and some good studies showing that elderly, you know, men and women, 70s, 80s plus, they can get a pretty good result doing some strength training, right? They go from someone who can't get themselves up on out of a chair by themselves to now they can get up and go. Now they're less likely to fall. You're less likely to fall, less likely to do something like break a hip. You stay out of the hospital. You stay healthy. now you're able to spend your years um you know doing the things you want to do instead of being in a place like a nursing home. So I think it's a hugely hugely important thing and uh I think it's a it's a population that's kind of they kind of can get passed by. People think they're too old too old to start replacing their hormones to start you know too old to start their kind of you know their fitness their fitness journey but it's never never too late start from where you are. What do you consider older men to get on TRT? What age? >> Yeah, it's tricky. My uh it's a sliding scale here. The older I get, the you know, the the uh the the higher I preach the age of what I consider to be old, right? So, I'm 51 years old now. You know, 20 years ago, I would have thought I'm a grandpa, but you know, here here I am 51 years old, I feel great. Probably better than I did at 31. Um no, but you know, you know, what do I consider what do I consider older? Um, yeah. I mean, I I I think I think probably, you know, guy guys in their in their 60s plus is when they really start, you know, start thinking that it's maybe other providers were considered a contraindication or they're more concerned about doing it, right? Guys in their 30s, 40s, 50s, pretty much anywhere they go, no one's going to b at it. people, you know, they they'll they'll start you on TRT, whether it's your, you know, uh, you know, probably not your primary care, but, you know, going to another another clinic somewhere. But some of the older, you know, you start getting up into those older ages, some of the some of the clinics will buck at things a little bit. So maybe, you know, maybe over 60, I think, would maybe be that that cut point. >> I guess if you check blood and testosterone in most men 60 and older, you find they have low testosterone, right? >> For sure. For sure. and really it really starts to fall. So, you know, there's some there's some data to show that you start losing, you know, and the numbers are even changing, too. So, these numbers even seem to be getting lower and lower. You know, sometimes guys even in their 30s are starting to fall off, but certainly by your 40s and 50s, you start losing a percentage of your testosterone year-over-year. You know, it could be one, you know, one percentage per year depending upon the study you look at, and that just falls over time. Uh but even more importantly, you know, free testosterone is falling faster than total testosterone. And that's something that gets missed a lot too. You know, back to the primary care setting. Guys will go in, they, you know, they finally talk their primary care provider into checking their testosterone. They only check a total testosterone. Maybe it looks pretty good. It's middle of the range. Hey man, you're five or 600. You're great. You know, you're like a 30-year-old. Don't worry about it. But they didn't go beyond that. They didn't check a sex hormone binding globulin. they can't calculate a free testosterone. Um, and the free testosterone falls even further, you know, even further over over time. Uh, the older you get, sex hormone binding globulin kind of keeps ratcheting up. Um, that bind does literally what it sounds like it does, it binds up the the free available testosterone. So, in the background, your numbers are dropping faster than you than you think. >> And it can it can drop pretty significantly. Guys can get pretty symptomatic from it. >> Yeah. And how come those men wait so long uh to to seek help? [laughter] >> A lot of times people just chalk it up to aging. They say and they'll they'll even hear that from their provider. Hey man, you're just getting older, right? What are you doing? You're trying to chase. You're not going to be 25 forever. And that's fine, right? I mean, it's not realistic to think you're going to be 25 forever. But also, I think it's important to make sure you don't wind up 65, 75, 85 and broken, right? That that should be the bigger the bigger, more important goal. Um, but they, yeah, people wait because they just they just think it's part of the way it should be. Hey, I'm not gonna, you know, things aren't going to work the way they used to be, whatever it might be. You know, their um, you know, their aesthetics, the way they look, their physical strength, their their mental clarity, even their sexual function. People just assume it it's the way it has to be, and it doesn't. >> And is the treatment plan for HRT different when men seek help on 35, 40 years uh, than on 60 plus? Is the the way you deal with it different? >> The basics are really the same, right? So, uh you know, symptom relief is king. So, we're looking to relieve symptoms. Um I do find with some older guys that they find symptom relief without getting to quite quite the high, you know, the higher numbers. You know, it's average guy, uh you know, free testosterone seems to correlate a lot better with symptom relief than total testosterone. So, free testosterone, you know, 20 to 40 nogs per deciliter for most guys. Um, you know, a lot of older guys, they're on the lower end of that when they start feeling good and feeling some relief. And everyone's going to be different and you have to kind of meet them where they are and and see how they do, you know, symptomatically. But, uh, it seems like and it it could be that they've just been living so low and in such a bad state for so long that any kind of boost feels better. >> And there's always room to work too, right? Maybe they might feel great. Man, we got their free testosterone to 20, not a grams per deciliter. They're feeling I'm feeling great. And maybe we can push it a little bit further from there. But yeah, that that's the only that that's the the main real big difference that that I see. Um, I think the other thing would be is you really have to be living uh, you know, living the life to match the hormone level you're trying to accomplish. So, if you're, you know, if you're an older guy who's been taking great care of yourself, we're talking more about your, you know, your your biological age and your chronological age, you know, you might be, you might be 70 years old and look like you're 50. You might be fitter than the guy in the gym who's, you know, who's 40. uh that guy's going to tolerate a higher level, a lot better than the guy who's been doing nothing and is now 60 or 70 and thinks, "Man, I need to do something. Let's plug in some testosterone." Yeah. >> Uh that guy might be he might be running a little too hot if we try to if we try to get his levels too high too fast. >> You know, you can't just um you can't pour rocket fuel into your, you know, into your uh 74 or your 84 uh uh Toyota Tel and and hope that it's just going to run like a Ferrari. You have to you have to build up the rest of the chassis and get some better wheels on there, get the whole the whole system running fine before you can really get those levels up a little bit higher. >> Yeah, sure. And for those men 60 and over, um if they contact you and they haven't taken care of themselves very well, maybe they are overweight or obese. Um, do you do you start them out on lifestyle changes, diet and exercise first and afterwards uh TRT or do you start everything at once? >> No, that's a great that's a great question. Um, because the the two work better. The short answer is I do it concurrently, right? So do it at the same time. Um, you know, in a perfect world, what I'm what I'm hoping is not going to happen is they're just going to take the medicine and sit around and wait for it to work because they're going to end up disappointed, >> right? I mean there are studies that show that just testosterone on its own is going to do is going to have some improvements. It's going to improve some metabolic health is going to improve some muscle retention and prevent sarcopenia. But when you stack that with other lifestyle things like now you're exercising, doing some good resistance training, eating a good diet, dial dialing in your sleep and recovery a little bit more, that's when it really it's additive and it just really can really take off. So So I do it at the same time. Um I like to say that, you know, testosterone makes effort feel good, but you still have to get up off the couch, >> right? So, we plug this in. You get yourself doing these things. Even if you don't feel like doing it, I'll tell people, you know, give me give me the minimum. You know, you hate going to the gym. You've never liked it. It's not what you want to do. Doesn't even have to be at the gym. Give me two days of, you know, body weight exercises at home in your living room in between commercials while you're watching a show, you know, after work for a couple nights a week. Do that, you know, do that for six months while we're fixing your hormones. And most of the time, they just end up wanting to do more, right? So, that's the catalyst. And now, now off we go. But yeah, I I don't like the idea of waiting, you know, waiting for them to fix the lifestyle stuff because it might be it might be hard. They might be really struggling and dragging and they're tired and they're feeling tired after work and they have some brain fog and they're just they're not feeling up to it. So, you know, the the two can go together. The hormones are the catalyst, but you still have to get up and do that work. >> I speak a little bit as a layman now, but u isn't it dangerous uh to start resistance training at that age if they have never worked out? Uh maybe their bones are a bit uh more brittle. Uh I don't know. >> Yeah. Yeah. I'm I'm gonna say I think it's dangerous not to. Right. So you have uh you know we have you know 50 cent word sarcopenia right? So that's kind of age related or you know wasting wasting of muscle. Um it's going to happen right? So if you're and there's different there's different data on this too. When does it actually start? I think sort of it depends upon you know what what you've been doing for your whole life. But sometime in your, you know, 40s or so, maybe a little past there, you're going to start losing a percentage of muscle year over year. And it's interesting, it kind of correlates even with the, you know, with the hormone drop, too, right? So, you know, maybe it's somewhere like a, you know, you know, 1% of your of your muscle mass per year or so, maybe a maybe a half a percent on the in those younger those early younger years, then accelerating more as you get into your, you know, 60s plus. Uh, but if you're losing that muscle year-over-year, 1%, it's not not a good thing, right? You're going to be weak. you're going to be frail, you're going to have a fall, you're not going to recover well from, you know, if you, god forbid, have a hospitalization or something, you know, something like that. Um, and there's even a there's even a threshold, you know, the sarcopenic um disability threshold. You know, you lose about 20 to 30% of your total your total baseline muscle mass. And that's about where people are impaired right now. They can't walk well. They can't c they can't get up off the floor. If they if they fall, they're not going to be able to prevent themselves from falling. So, if you do some math there, if you're using, you know, if you're losing 1% per year, you're looking at that 20 or 30, you know, 20 or 30 years to get to that point where now you can't do anything. You're not going to be not going to be able to function. You're going to you're going to get hurt. So, the other, you know, the flip side of that is is the older you get, you have to be a little more careful and deliberate with the way you do train, right? Right? So, I don't want to take a 75 year old guy and sign him up for a, you know, CrossFit gym class day one and he's going in there doing box jumps and ballistic movements and Olympic lifts and that's probably not a great idea. But you get them in there just moving full, you know, full range of motion, careful uh basically just practicing the exercises to begin with, they're going to get some real good um, you know, newbie gains just like the, you know, just like the 20-year-old who's the first time in the gym. They're going to they're going to get some they're going to get some good muscle growth out of it. Um I think you know their joints and bones are actually going to feel better for it now. There's some blood flow getting in there. We're getting things moving. End up with some reduced pain and some and definitely some better function. >> So uh so yeah, definitely not on safe and I I think it's mandatory. I mean I I I insist all of my patients do it. They're probably sick of hearing me say it, but uh when they do it, they're they're happy for it. >> It improves health for sure. [snorts] Is it more difficult for guys over 60 to build muscle and lose weight? Without a doubt. Without a doubt. It is. It is for sure. It is for sure. But it's not impossible. And again, if you're talking about, you know, someone who's had no, they haven't had that kind of stimulus at all, they're still going to be able to do it. Again, perfect world, you know, it's like investing. If you, you know, if you took the advice and started investing right out of college and you you built up those retirement accounts, you're going to be great. You're going to hit 4050. It's just smooth sailing. Everything's great. Retirement is going to be great financially. Same thing with with uh you know, with uh with your health. You know, the sooner you start doing those things, the better. But you you have to start from you know, start from where you are. So again, if you're in your you know, if you're in your 60s, you can still build some strength, you can still build some muscle. It's going to be it's going to be a little bit more difficult. it has to be a little more planned. Uh, you know, the 20-year-old could just go into the gym and pretty much smash it and do whatever they want. They're going to recover and be fine. If you're, you know, if you're 70, you can't do that. It has to be a little more planned, a little more regimented. Um, definitely had to pay a lot more attention to your your recovery, things like your sleep and your, you know, your your stress and just uh recovering from the bout of exercise you did so you could come back and do more. >> But you can definitely make some uh make some progress. M okay let's switch to um maybe the practical side of TRT um for those guys older than 60 um TRT do they need a higher dose to start with or lower dose or just the same like 40 year old guys. >> Yeah. So it's going to really it's going to depend upon again we're back we're back to symptoms again and we're talking about guys who are likely to have that higher sex hormone binding globbulin. So they might need, you know, they might need a higher dose or a different dosing um uh schedule to overcome that high sex hormone binding globbulin. That's really kind of the kind kind of the bigger factor there, right? And everyone's different. Everyone has a different sensitivity. There's some genetic component there, too. So that really that really depends. But otherwise, that's there's not it's not a whole lot different. It's not a whole lot different. I don't I don't do it a whole lot different with my with my older guys and with my younger guys. >> Mhm. Do you um is your preferred um way of administration injections? >> I think injections and uh compounded topical cream, right? You know, so 20% topical cream and almost everyone listening to your channels heard this a thousand times too, right? But just in case someone first time, we're not talking about androgel or that weak sauce uh stuff you see. The compounded 20% cream applied transcrotally works I think just as good if not better for you know for some people. Um I think it you know, the more and more I I used to be just really way more pro- injection and not so much for cream, but I I see so many guys doing good good with cream and they have a great outcome that I'm I'm a fan. I'm a fan. I think it really works well. Um, I think it really comes down to compliance and lifestyle and what you're going to do. If you're, you know, if you're someone who's going to apply the cream twice per day and actually stick to it and and uh, you know, and do it consistently, it's going to work. It's going to work good. If you're someone who knows you're not going to do that, you know, it's not going to work. It's not going to work as good. Creams, you have some sometimes have some issues with, you know, absorption. Um, or if you have some worry about transference. So, a lot of times with older guys, some of those issues just aren't an issue anymore, right? The kids are gone out of the house. They're not worried about transference in that way. Um, they have a pretty good schedule because they're either, you know, they're either retired or they have a work schedule that lets them be pretty flexible. So, applying a cream twice per day isn't isn't a big deal. they're not rushing out of the house to have their, you know, 14 hour workday like that, you know, 30 or 40 year old guy might be doing. So, for, you know, for a lot of guys, um, for that reason, the cream can work can work pretty good. >> Um, I also see sometimes the cream work better for guys who are not quite as healthy. Uh, there there's something there there's something to the short halflife and the fact that it kind of uh, you know, we get this this these kind of two waves, right? Two two twice daily administration. With the injection, you're kind of getting these levels and we're kind of we're kind of keeping these steady levels as it goes throughout the without the week. And there's some small, you know, some small peaks and troughs, but not not quite the same. So, for some of these kind of less metabolically or you know, overall less healthy guys, the cream could actually work a little bit better. Um, as in they just they just feel they just feel a little bit better. Um, so it it but it's it's it's it's individual, but either either one works great. Mhm. Do you find that um men over 60 are more often hypothyroid as well? Do you check and treat both? I do. I see a lot of I see a lot of hypothyroidism. A lot of it. Um I do I I screen all of my patients for that too, right? I like to get some labs. Um you know, at least a thyroid stimulating hormone and a free T3. You know, free T3, you can kind of equate it the way you do with free testosterone. I mean there there's there's some differences with way the you know uh with you know with TSH and the feedback loop um you're not getting completely shut down the way you do with testosterone. So in a way you could kind of top things off a little bit with thyroid. But I do see a lot of guys um you know sometimes their you know their TSH if you look at a lab range on a TSH you'll see a lot you know some labs will have it you know 0.25 25 to five or you know some something like that some absurd range and they'll go to their PCP maybe they check it every year maybe every couple years and they just say hey it's in that same range as normal no one ever checks another range you know another value no free T3 no thyroid antibodies um that TSH is slowly creeping up the guy's slowly getting more tired and having more brain fog and maybe you know feeling chilly he's a guy wearing a sweater in the office now that kind of thing and no one ever thought to check it and then you know they come to someone like me and or know one one of our providers and and uh you know we check their thyroid and that's crazy. They have a TSH that's four and they have a free T3 that's two, right? You know, optimal TSH. I'd rather see people with, you know, TSH closer to one and a free T3 maybe, you know, three and a half to five. Now people are feeling good, right? They need less stimulants. They're, you know, they might have gone from being the guy in the morning who wakes up and just can't wait to have that cup of coffee and now they just they just don't even have that morning cup. Or maybe it's 11 o'clock like, "Holy cow, man, I didn't even have any coffee. I didn't even know I needed it." And now you save it for when you really need it. it's even more effective. You use it to fuel your workout or what, you know, whatever it might be. So, thyroid is a huge part of it. I think all all the hormones all all come together. I mean, you know, testosterone is kind of the star of the show and the one everyone wants to talk about, but uh replacing thyroid along with it can really be a nice can really be a nice thing. It helps it helps a lot of folks. Mhm. And do you put them on both hormones, testosterone and thyroid hormone at the same time or do you wait for the results from the first one? Yeah. And that that's that's where it gets a little tricky, right? So if you're changing, you know, if you're changing too many if you have too many moving parts at one time, you don't know what did what made you feel better or even worse, you know, what made you feel worse, right? If hey, I'm taking these medications, something's going on, I don't feel right. Uh, so, you know, I do I I do like to do them kind of kind of one at a time. Um, sometimes if things are really, you know, everything just out of whack and I have someone who's, you know, really eager to get started, I I explain this whole process to them that, hey, you know, it might be hard to tell which is which. And sometimes they're on board for just doing both. So, occasionally I'll do both. Usually I'll fix um uh usually I'll fix testosterone first, but it really depends upon the patient. >> All right. Um, about libido, do those guys more than over 60? Um, complain more often than younger guys, I guess. Yes. >> You know, everyone seems to complain about their uh about their libido these days. Even the younger guys, even younger guys. But no, for for sure, for sure all the older guys. And it definitely gives them a boost in their libido without a doubt. Um, it's one of the reasons that I kind of emphasize I think it's important to treat um uh you know treat couples or make sure everyone else in the relationship is on is on board because you fix you know you fix one libido without fixing the other and you can have a problem. >> So it definitely uh but no it's it's a common complaint. It's a common complaint with older guys for sure. >> And are there any add-ons for libido you try out if testosterone doesn't do the job? you know, even more so with with the older guys, I like to look at some of the other, you know, the other um kind of upstream hormones, things like DHEA or pregnnolone. Um, sometimes you can tweak, you know, you can tweak those a bit and really can really get things, you know, really get things going. Um, a lot of times it's it's a matter of just fixing overall health, too, right? If someone's not metabolically healthy, your body's not looking to, you know, to reproduce. It's just not biologically in the, you know, in the in the works there. So you fix some, you know, you fix some health to get someone leaner and more muscular and exercising and fixing their cardiovascular health. You know, everything anything that's good for the heart is also good for the, you know, good for the penis. So you you fix those things and now boom, boom, it all it all starts kind of coming kind of coming together. >> Those are those are the kind of the top line, you know, the kind of the topline things for for libido. Uh, you know, some of the some of the other things you consider too. I mean, there's some peptides, you know, you have things like PT-141 and those kinds of those kinds of things. Those can sometimes help a bit. Um, most of the time we don't even have to get there though. We stick with these top tier things. Fix some testosterone, fix some thyroid, maybe DHEA, pregnant alone, really work on health and fitness and, you know, leaning out and building some muscle and it really all seems to come together. >> What about uh using Tadalafil? >> Oh, yeah. No, it's a big it it's a big one. It's a big one. And and I'm a fan. I'm a fan. I think it has some good uh some good longevity benefits too, right? I mean, you're improving endothelial health. Uh reduces blood pressure just a little bit. Um it can be it it's a great medication. I'm I'm a fan of a low dose, you know, low dose 5 milligram per day for, you know, not only older guys, I think for for I mean many for many folks, it just has some has some great benefits there. >> Yeah. Gives that little that little extra little extra boost and a little extra confidence. And then you also, you know, you're also taking a medication that you know is doing some other good things for your health. So, it's an easy cell. I I prescribe a lot of it. >> Any other supplements or add-ons that you always uh recommend to um men getting on TRT? >> Yeah. You know, I see I just see a lot of people seem to be deficient in vitamin D, right? So, I like to, you know, vitamin D with some K2. It's going to help just about everyone. It's going to help some immune function. You know, it has a lot of good hormonal effects. it just across the board for general health. I think everyone we should be, you know, we should be there. Um, same thing with zinc. I think it's a commonly missed one. It really helps with some immunity, especially, you know, as you're getting older, too. You're more common to get, you know, even just more common colds and that kind of thing. So, if you're staying on top of that, I think can can be a real real helpful thing. Um, I like some magnesium at bedtime. Um, you know, I'm a fan of magnesium glycinate. It's easy, you know, easy on the gut, takes the edge off, um, uh, you know, takes the edge off the nerves and helps, you know, helps you sleep just a little bit better. Uh, most people seem even, you know, just a little bit deficient, especially folks who are exercising hard and sweating, you know, and sweating a lot. So, I'm I'm I'm a fan of uh, of magnesium, too. >> What else supplement wise? Those are kind of some of my big ones. I mean, I think something like creatine is an easy uh, you know, an easy cell to an easy add-on for most people. Has some good, you know, has some good uh cognitive effects, too. Can helps with some brain health. >> So, I like that. I like that a lot for, you know, for aging folks also. >> Dr. Keith Nichols, you know him from the channel as well. >> Sure. >> Yeah. He has helped me getting on TRT in 2017. And um yeah, I learned from him that older men, but I think he already calls them older if they are 45 plus, uh he said older men h have to get all the hormones replaced. So testosterone, um thyroids, DHEA, pregnnenolone, uh melatonin. So the whole bunch um everyone gets the whole bunch. Uh that was his opinion at least. Are you >> Yeah, you know me I I did leave out melatonin there. I'm also a big fan of melatonin. >> I think for less important for younger people but it just you know it's been known for for a long time. Your melatonin just falls off. It's the you know why you know why do old people you know why do they they're they're sleeping four or five hours. They just get up they pop out of bed and there they go and like oh man. But you know and they need that rest and recovery still. It's not that they don't not that they don't need it, it's just, you know, they're they're missing out here. So, I think I think some melatonin can be a real a real nice thing. I like to start like, you know, three to five milligrams and kind of titrate up. Um, you know, younger people, I don't like to go too high. Maybe keep it, you know, five fiveish milligrams or so, unless you're going for a real, you know, real big specific effect. But for older people, I, you know, older guys, you know, old old guys over, you know, over 50, I guess we could say, um, you can you can you can crank up that dose quite a bit, right? I have a lot of guys taking 20 milligrams a night and they feel they feel great. They get a more restful sleep. Um it just you're doing some good some good things. [snorts] >> You know, highdose melatonin even think it might have some anti-cancer effect too, right? So you get some nice some nice benefits there. >> Mhm. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> How much how much did you take? >> Yeah. I've been taking 50 milligram since years now. Yeah. I I take up I was never groggy on whatever dose. So been taking that forever. Yeah. >> Yeah. Did you gradually you ramped it up gradually though? >> Yeah, gradually but rather rapidly every month a bit uh 5 milligrams more. I I didn't feel groggy ever and together with magnesium in the evening and always had a good time sleeping. So >> yeah, that's a nice that's a nice combo for sleep for sure. >> Yeah, some mag some magnesium, some melatonin. Um, you know, if guys want a little extra an extra add-on for sleep, too. I like some occasional glycine in there, too. Like three to five grams of glycine. It's a powdered, you know, powdered stuff. Has a little bit of sweet taste to it. >> Helps give you a little bit of a GABA boost. >> So, I like I like that occasionally, too. >> Yeah, melatonin is a is a good one. I'm I'm a fan. [sighs] >> Um, let me get back to the overweight or obese guys. Do you use any of the peptides there for them? uh simaglutide and so on. >> Oh yeah. No, those drugs drugs those drugs are amazing. You know, simaglutide tepatide fantastic stuff. I mean, I think if we're talking about, you know, longevity drugs, I think testosterone is really one of our top, you know, checking a lot of boxes there. But then, you know, maybe maybe even equally dependent upon the person we're talking about and what they need, you know, what they need fixed. Those modern weight loss medications are kind of top tier longevity drugs. I mean you you you fix you fix obesity and lose some atyposity. You just fix so many things. >> Yeah. >> Uh I mean metabolic markers start coming back into into play here. Um you know adoposity or fat tissue is inflammatory. So you're knocking out inflammation. So people are in less pain. They're able to move better now. They're able to do that exercise. And it just kind of really rolls you know rolls along with it. So you're now you're um you know now you're improving you know improving insulin sensitivity reversing pre-diabetes or even diabetes, >> losing body fat, you're moving more, you're reducing uh incidence of fatty liver. There just so many so many great benefits there. I think they're I think they're fantastic meds and the combination um of testosterone and and modern weight loss meds like those are are great are great. Um, I would even add I think it's, you know, you start getting it gets even more uh more important to have an emphasis on on things that are going to keep muscle, which includes testosterone and and resistance training when you're taking those medications. Because if you're, you know, if you're um if you're losing weight, you're going to be in a caloric deficit. These medications make you eat less and crave less. So, the bottom line is you're eating less food and that's how you're that's how you're losing your body fat and losing the weight. So, right, so you're going to lose tissue. It's a matter of what kind of tissue are you going to lose, right? So, if you're doing the things to keep your muscle, you're going to lose mostly fat. If you're not, you might lose half, you know, half of that body weight you're losing as muscle. Then you end up with uh, you know, it's not the look most people are going for to lose half their muscle, right? The scale weight looks great, but they look at themselves in the mirror and go, you know, what happened here? >> Yeah. >> So, >> yeah. So, so I'm a big fan. All All my patients I have on those on those modern weight loss medications, I I insist they, you know, they hit their protein goal. I insist they do some sort of resistance training. Um, slow, reasonable diet. you know, the the um um the you know, the good the good basics of of quality diet dieting still apply when you're using these medications. It's not some magic thing. You still need to lose at a slow consistent pace, >> but I think paired together that's some that's some magic stuff. >> Mhm. Do you find there are um contraindications uh in some patients for TRT if they are getting older? Maybe um I don't know a PSA that is too high or uh heart uh and cardiovascular issues. >> Yeah, it can start it can start getting a little bit a little bit tricky there. You know, some of the biggest ones starts to be some of the um you know, some some of the PSA and some of the some of the prostate, you know, some of the prostate concerns. Most of the PSA concerns ends up being a transient thing. It ends up being some, you know, some prostatitis or something like that and it kind of transient and it goes away. Maybe it means a trip to urology to kind of get some things checked out. Um, you defin I mean the bottom line is you don't want to treat a guy with testosterone as active prostate cancer. That's just a bad, you know, a bad set of facts. But outside of that, you're really, you know, you're really okay. It's not going to give you prostate cancer. It's not going to give you prostate problems. Um, you just you just kind of monitor it and deal deal with that as it as it comes. Um, as far as the cardiovascular risk go, it's interesting because, you know, even some some very recent studies kind of backed away and kind of pulled back on the old, you know, testosterone is a cardiovascular risk. It just kind of showed that it's just not it's just really not a thing. It's not it's not it's not a concern like, you know, like like we once thought. So, not a not not a problem there. Um, you know, there is some concern that maybe some older guys are a little bit a little bit more prone to some, you know, some arrhythmias and that that kind of that kind of thing. That can same kind of same kind of deal there when you're replacing thyroid with older guys, you know, you want to have them keep an eye out. It's something I warn people about. Hey, let me know if you're noticing some irregular heart rate or a fast heart rate. Pretty pretty uncommon thing. I think a lot of those, you know, a lot of those findings were that's just going to happen to some older people. They just happen to be on these medications. So probably not as big a big a concern as we as we think there. >> And how is the relationship between you the provider for their HRT TRT and the general practitioner? Because I guess sometimes the general practitioner is a bit more worried than you about their patients uh heart disease or whatever. Uh I I I tell you this because you know as a dermatologist um I'm prescribing isotriinoin. I'm prescribing antimicotic medication and all things like that. And [snorts] very often, almost weekly, I hear from patients, oh, my general practitioner said, this was bad for my liver. This was bad for my kidneys. I I I don't dare to take that medication. So, the general practitioner sometimes uh franks uh my patient from the medication he should take. So, what's your take on that? It happens, you know, it happens less less often than than it used to. I feel like less and and I I think part of it could be just because people are going to see their their general practitioner less and less and they're actually spending less time with them. So, the fact the fact that they have these ultra short visits when they're in there talking to their, you know, their doctor for five minutes, they just don't have time to cover all this. Sometimes they don't even, you know, maybe it doesn't even come up at all. Um, so I think I think that in in a way has been a been a blessing. So now the you know the PCP just doesn't even have to get involved with it at all. But I do see it a lot. I've seen I've seen um guys who are on it and stopped and then they come back to me because they want to you know maybe they want to revisit it and restart because they remember how good they felt. They'll have a story like that like, "Hey, you know, my doctor told me I really dodged the bullet here by by, you know, by by talking to him about it and getting him off off of there because I was gonna he was he was going to give me a heart attack and prostate cancer and I was going to get a blood clot and so on, you know, and so on and so on." And those things are just, you know, they're old news. And I don't blame the primary care doctors 100%, right? They're not they're not uh it's not their niche. They're not in there paying close attention to the latest the latest on all of it. But also they they are they are passing along some bad you know some bad information. So uh I I haven't had any any situations where um um where I've had to have a talk with their primary care or you know any kind of butdding heads and like that that kind of thing. But uh I've I've had some people leave their primary care provider over it. Right. They'll talk to me and say hey you know I'm just I just went and found someone else. We're not on the same page with this. And I think that's I think that's fine too. >> Yeah. Yeah. Here in Belgium, we even have that very often with the pharmacies. So, you prescribe something, the patients go to the pharmacy and the pharmacies says, "Uh, oh, that's a very heavy medication for it's very bad for your liver. Do you really have to take that?" And then the patient is frightened and they don't buy the the medication. They come back to me and they say, "No, I didn't take it. I was afraid and the pharmacy warned me about this and this side effect." Uh so and then they ask me so what should I do now? I say ask the pharmacy what you should do. >> Yeah we >> no it's it puts us in a bad spot right because now now the patient is confused like hey what what do I do here? Do I trust this guy? You know I thought I trusted this guy seemed like he knew what he was talking about. Now here's this other medical professional giving me a whole different whole different look at it. >> Same thing happens here with the pharmacies right? um in the in the you know in the US a lot of us will use you know we use compoundingarmacies instead and a lot of that is because we're on the same you know we're on the same page about treatment right so these pharmacies are more trained in that they're more knowledgeable about it we could call and get you know get good actually get good advice from them instead of instead of this you know this other these other scare tactics that that the patients hear so I try to avoid the um you know the those kind ofies for these these things if I can um I even ran into that myself when I was trying to fill my own armor thyroid at a pharmacy here. The pharmacist asked me, uh, what did she say? She said, "Oh, have you had blood work for this? Do you really need this kind of thing?" And it it was amazing. I was like, "Are you the Yeah, you're not the just fill the prescription, right? What are we talking about here?" So, it was interesting to see what what patients might go through. >> Yeah. Yeah. It's common practice here. Even 25 years ago when I was still an intern in dermatology, I I remember my professor calling the pharmacy and he was very angry because they also frightened his patient and he said, "The only thing you have to do is uh sell those pills to the patient and just shut up and [laughter] yeah, still going on 25 years later. Still going on every week." Yeah. >> Yeah. No, it's sad that it has to turn into that into that sometimes. Everyone wants to hold their, you know, stand their ground on their on their beliefs there. >> Yeah, that's crazy. It's crazy. >> Yeah. Maybe back to the uh HRT, I had another question about um growth hormone and maybe growth hormone secrets or releasing peptides because I guess when you get even older than 60, all growth hormone secretion is gone. Do those secrets still work? Do you recommend them? Um >> it it it gets interesting, right? Because we're we're in an interesting um interesting spot with growth hormone because if you're talking about just, you know, replacing growth hormone uh just straight up, you know, >> injecting it straight in there, the legalities of it and availability, it just really it's just really not a not a thing in most uh you know, definitely not in the US. You have the real special indications for it. It's even, you know, it's even a felony to prescribe if you do it wrong. And there's all all these things. So very very very narrow indication there. And I think the secret goals can be great, but a lot of it's going to depend upon the health of your system, right? Because we're asking the pituitary to now um now now secrete more growth hormone on its own and is it healthy and up to that task, right? So you get you get to a point where what are you actually going to get out of it? Um uh and I think at best too, you know, some some of the levels that they that they show with these like maybe you get like a 30 or 40% boost from that, right? So maybe if you had a healthy, you know, a healthy pituitary, maybe you're getting the equivalent of like, you know, people who understand growth hormone, you know, if you're talking about in units, maybe you're getting like the equivalent of a unit or two of of what you'd get from exogenous growth hormone out of a secret go, which could be pretty good. Right now you're getting better sleep, you're getting better recovery. Um, but it's hard to know what um what you're going to get until you until you try. So, I think it's an okay okay thing to try, right? I think older guys, you know, the expectation should be, you know, that this might work, it might not. You can give it a try. Maybe you check an IGF-1 level, which is a, you know, it's an okay test and an okay measure. I don't put a lot of a lot of weight on it. A lot of things can affect that, you know, that uh that number. Um, so I like to see how people feel. I think uh you know some of the secreta goss just um improve people's sleep. I think that's a great metric to go by right if you're taking something like uh you know a lot of these things in the US just aren't available anymore but if you're taking something like tessaelin or you know smearellin and you're uh you know using it you know five six nights a week and you're getting five six nights a week of way better sleep I think that's a win right there. I don't care what it's doing to your growth hormone or what it's actually doing to your IGF levels long term. you're gonna get some you're gonna get some benefit from that alone. So I so I do like it for that and I think that's a f I think that's a fine way to a fine way to use those things. >> Fine. >> All right, Mike, I think we've covered a lot. Um are there any other differences um for men getting on HRT in general between 35, 40 and 60 plus? Any other differences? >> I think one of the biggest differences is you know time is of the essence here, right? Right? I mean, you have uh you only have so much, you know, some only have so much time on this planet, so you need to make the most of it. So, if it's, you know, if you're getting up there in your age and you're going to do it, do it do it now. Do it now, right? It's going to it's going to keep you healthy. It's going to keep you keep you around doing the things you want to, you know, you want to do longer. Um, as far as the specifics of doing it, I think it's a matter of just just getting after it and doing it. Go see go see a competent provider. Uh, you know, don't waste your time going to your PCP and ask them about it. get in to see a specialist on this thing, get some blood work done, and uh we can get you get you feeling get you feeling better. >> Awesome. Any last advice for men watching older than 60? >> Yeah, I think you know it, not to not to make it sound morbid, but you know, sometimes people will ask me, you know, hey, what do you what are you training for? You know, what are you doing? You know, when you're younger, there might be some sort of an outward goal like, you know, I just want to I want to get in better shape for the beach or I want to be strong. I want to compete in this, you know, powerlifting or whatever it might be or some sort of a sport. Um, as you get older, you know, some of these interests fall off. You're not as interested. I mean, everyone still wants to look good. Everyone still wants to be strong. Maybe you still want to, you know, do some sport, but it's not not as high a priority. So, I think, you know, as that starts to fade, it's good to focus on the bigger priority of um, you know, how about the sport of life, right? This is going to keep you around longer and healthier and doing the things you want to do. And eventually, I mean, hopefully not. I hope that we're both, you know, some of the lucky ones it doesn't happen to. But at some point, you're going to have some sort of an event, right? I mean, whether that be a, you know, a cardiac event, a cerebral vascular event, or a trauma, an illness, a surgery, you're going to need to bounce back from that thing. So, come into that event strong. People who come into those things strong leave strong. People who come into those things weak sometimes don't leave at all. Right? So, if you need a big if you need a motivation to to do this stuff, there you know, there it is. There it is. You know, you you don't want to wake up in your in the in the ICU bed realizing that you should have been building up your, you know, building up your muscle and having that metabolic currency to get you through this, you know, get you through this thing. >> Yeah. >> I think that's a hugely a hugely important thing. And I think a lot of people listening to this channel too are probably think, well, you know, that's not me anyway. You know, I'm doing all these things, right? You have some pretty pretty high level folks listening to this that are really into this stuff, but most of them also have family members who aren't or friends who aren't. And if they're looking for a motivation, it's a good way to kind of, you know, kind of try to sell this thing. Be a good ambassador of health and fitness and, you know, pass that along to a loved one so you could spend, you know, spend more time with them. >> Yeah, >> that's a big that's a big thing. I saw um definitely I I saw a ton of that working in the hospitals. It was a shame. People would come in, you could tell who was gonna who this is going to go well for and who it wasn't. >> You'd have people, you know, some some bad thing happens, no one could have seen it coming. You know, the guy's in great shape. Uh, you know, bounces back great. He's, you know, discharged home directly from the ICU and, you know, not, you know, things aren't perfect, but he's going to be okay, right? It's all going to be all right. someone comes in weak, it's a prolonged hospital stay, they're losing twice as much muscle, they're going to rehab, maybe they're going to a, you know, they're going to a nursing home and that's it. You know, it's it's just could be some life-changing stuff. So, I think it's I think it's an important point to keep in mind. >> Sure. And as a medical provider, we also need to lead by example, right? >> I I I think it's hugely important. >> Yeah. >> Right. Right. I mean, yeah. If you come in there, you know, you want to have uh your your your uh your practice is primary dermatology, right? >> Right. >> Yeah. So, people want to come in, they want to see a guy who's, you know, who's who looks who looks good. He's healthy overall. He has good skin, right? You go see a dermatologist with bad skin. You're wondering, "Hey, does this guy know what he's talking about? What are we doing here?" >> No, but yeah, you want to be Yeah, you want to you want to look the You want to look the look the part and walk, you know, walk the walk. And uh yeah, it's it definitely helps helps make the sale, helps get more people where they need to be. >> All right, Mike, thank you so much for sharing your knowledge and experience. Um if people want to reach out to you, um how do they uh do that? >> Sure. Uh so you can find me everywhere men'shealthspan, right? So men'shealthspan.com. Uh you can reach me by email, mikemenhealthspan.com. all the social medias. I think I have uh Facebook, Instagram, Tik Tok, YouTube, all men's health span. So, I have some videos and stuff up there, too. But yeah, someone's someone wants to reach out, shoot me a message. I'm happy to chat. >> Okay. Thank you so much again. >> Yeah, thanks for having me. This has been fun. >> Was a pleasure.