I understand once you're on TRT, you're on it for life, but at what age is it recommended to lower the dosages? &gt;&gt; So, a couple of things there. I mean, are you on it for life? You you can come off it. You can stop. You're going to go back to feeling as crappy as you did before. So, there so there's that. Um, you know, it might take you three or six months to get back to where you were, you know, where you were before and where wherever you were on that trajectory, too, right? if your levels were declining wherever that intersects if it's 5 years later and this is where you were maybe you're going to be you know a little bit lower than you were um you can go you can come off most guys most guys will um bounce back to some you know some level of about where they were before &gt;&gt; does the TRT dosage has to be adjusted getting older if I'm now on two clicks in the morning two clicks in the evening for the cream is there a chance getting older that it has to be changed &gt;&gt; it could be and that can go either way right that can move either direction, right? So, um, if your SHBG continues to go up as you age, and it and it generally does, right? It's a matter of does it peak out, but if it's going up, it's binding up more total testosterone. You might actually need you might actually need more. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Um, and then it's a matter of, you know, how are you reacting to it as as you age, too? Do you do your symptoms feel better or worse? In general, you know, things things can change with people. Are you are you as fit and active as you used to be? Um, I really find that matching testosterone levels to the level of um, uh, of how well you're living your life, how optimized you are just in general. So, you know, for example, someone who's not and someone who's not exercising, someone who's overweight, someone who's, you know, not doing all these all these other important lifestyle things, they probably not going to high handle as as high a testosterone level as the as the more fit, active, lean person. Um, but if you say on top of all those other things as you age, you're probably fine to keep you maybe your dose doesn't change at all. Uh, but the other factor would definitely be that sex hormone binding globulin. &gt;&gt; But in general, I think not not a lot of big changes. I have a lot of guys that cruise on the same dose for for many many years, even as they get older.