 zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi zi z patients happy and healthier while also maintaining a clean line of licensure and keeping regulators happy. So we don't use that particular peptide. What we do use is we use other IGF-1 or growth hormone secretagogues like samorlin, which is FDA approved for humans. We use tesamorlin, which is very similar to samorlin, has a better affinity for visceral fat reduction. It does tend to be a little pricier than samorlin, which is why both options are very viable. Both of those do a great job with IGF-1, and they are safer than a lot of the other things out there. Testosterone in and of itself generally tends to raise IGF-1 levels as well. So when a man initiates TRT and it's done correctly and managed correctly, you'll notice an upswing in IGF-1 over time as well, even in the absence of any IGF analog or secretagogue. And sleep, quality sleep will help IGF-1 as well, and a reduction in carbohydrates. So it's not your opinion that every man 45, 50 that is already optimized on testosterone could also explore using GH or an analog? I am very cautious in using the word every man because when you make a blanket statement like that, you're encompassing everyone and you're taking away the ability to assess people as individuals. Saying every man, no, there are contraindications to IGF-1 elevations, for example, the known presence of cancer. We know that cancer is proliferated with an increase in IGF-1. And if someone has known and present cancer, then obviously it's contraindicated. If someone is a type 2 diabetic or insulin resistant or pre-diabetic or has an elevated A1c or elevated fasted sugar or elevated insulin levels, all of those things may potentially be contraindicated for IGF-1 therapy. So to say every man, absolutely not. To say a lot of men can benefit from it, yes, considering all of these conditions have been discussed, assessed, and taken into account before issuing a prescription. If I remember correctly, you do prefer secretagogues above HGH, right? Absolutely. We have never and ever will prescribe recumbent human growth hormone because when you prescribe an exogenous hormone, much like we do with testosterone, we know that there's a couple of things that occur. First and foremost, you have suppression. And that suppression with testosterone is fine because you are suppressing something that is already deficient and presumably needs to be replaced indefinitely. When you're suppressing growth hormone, considering the fact that there are much bigger risks and significant side effect profiles and contraindications that testosterone generally does not have, and it's significantly a very pricey endeavor, this is not something you want to do forever. And you don't want to suppress someone's ability to release growth hormone out of their pituitary because if that condition becomes irreversible or becomes deficient to an extent in the future where they're dependent on this exogenous medication, you're relegating them to a position where they may not be able to get that medication due to cost prohibition, due to regulatory issues, or due to side effect profile issues that make it a contraindication. And if any of those conditions exist, this individual is now in a world of trouble. So I don't like them for that reason, coupled by the fact that from a regulatory standpoint, they are heavily scrutinized. So secretagogues are significantly safer. And you don't run all of those risks, including acromegaly and cardiomegaly and, you know, progressing type 2 diabetes and progressing existing cancers, all things that are significantly less profound with a secretagogues compared to a synthetic exogenous growth hormone. that are quickly evaporating. Now that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that that