 riziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziziz I grew up in Canada. I do emergency medicine full-time. I also do TRT and weight loss medicine and hair loss medicine out here in Kitchener, Ontario, just outside of Toronto. And I've been focused practice in men's health for a while now. And I also do e-consultations for other physicians in Canada as well. Awesome. All right. And today we're talking about male pattern baldness or maybe baldness in general and on TRT. Yeah. So I think my approach to hair loss and what I teach to others as well is that the first step is making sure the diagnosis is correct. So for some people, they might start losing hair. And the automatic assumption might be that it's definitely male pattern baldness. And I think my first step is make sure the diagnosis is correct. You can have hair loss from fungal infections. You're going to have hair loss from autoimmune illness. I mean, a patient could have lupus. You could have alopecia areata. I mean, there's all kinds of different presentations, different systemic illnesses where, you know, hair loss could be a symptom. It doesn't mean that it's only male pattern baldness. So when I tell that to patients as well, when they first come in, it's make sure the diagnosis is correct first. So once we've concluded the diagnosis is male pattern baldness, I think the next step afterwards is, well, at least what I tell people is, well, it's a personal choice on what you want to do. Um, if they have male pattern wellness, well, you want to decide, you want to, you know, does it matter for you? Does it not matter? I mean, that's kind of what it comes down to. If it doesn't matter, great. No problem at all. I mean, it's a personal choice. If it does matter, then I think, you know, from, I guess, from our standpoint, from the, on the, when you're sitting on the opposite end of the patient, then we can present some options. And so I think first step is always making sure patient understands why it's happening. And especially for our patients who are on TRT, it's a common question to ask is about hair loss and whether it gets worse, whether it can cause hair loss. And I think the, I like to take a step back and tell patients, say, listen, like, um, a lot of people, or as I should say, most men have some level of predisposition to hair loss. As you get older, hair will thin, hair will fall. That's natural, you know, timeline of events in life. And so what I usually, um, will tell them is, um, you know, like, uh, once someone hits puberty, once they make testosterone, once that process of testosterone conversion and DHT happens, um, some people are predisposed to male pattern malvis. Their hair can thin, their hair can fall out. Now, the reason why that happens, I mean, so the hair follicles, uh, um, can have, uh, essentially multiple levels of predisposition to, you know, I don't want to use the term toxicity, but really, I mean, the DHT, the dihydrotestosterone can be damaging to hair follicles, um, you know, at different extents, depending on the patient's, uh, um, genetic predisposition. What's happening is you have testosterone, it converts to dihydrotestosterone through the enzyme falbop reductase, predominantly 5-alpha reductase 2. And, uh, that DHT then can bind to various tissues in the body. Um, you know, obviously the most, one of the most, the prostate being one of the, you know, prominent ones that we know about, but certainly it binds to the hair follicles. And a lot of that process happens as a, um, you know, as an intracrime process. And, uh, when that DHT binds there, it basically, um, will cause shortening of the antigen phase. It'll lead to hair thinning, miniaturization, the hair over time, over these repeat cycles, the hair falls out. And it's a bit of a spectrum because a lot of men will have very small levels of susceptibility. A lot of men will have, um, very major levels of susceptibility to that DHT. And as this, uh, process happens, um, uh, for someone who introduces testosterone, more testosterone to the body with testosterone replacement therapy, you're getting a little bit of upregulation in that DHT process. Just because you're feeding some more substrate into that process. And so, um, what's very important to know is that when someone takes TRT, you're not causing the hair loss. If someone has preexisting predisposition to hair loss, then that process can get a little bit accelerated. So that's the key thing that I like to really point out. Because, uh, you want to make sure a patient comes in, they take TRT, they're not thinking, well, now I'm going to lose all my hair. I mean, you know, we have to make sure we are very clear on that. And I think, um, more and more patients seem to understand that nowadays, but you're accelerating a process that's already going to be happening to begin with. And, um, it is a major like spectrum too, because a lot of men will have very limited amounts of hair loss. Some men will have very significant amounts of hair loss at age 19, 20. Some guys, when they're like 58, they might start noticing more and more thinning. And so it's a wide spectrum. And a lot of that has to do with the differences in the five alpha reductase, a lot of the different genes that affect the prostaglandins and localized inflammation in the scalp. There's multiple things that play a role. And then I think when we get into the treatment options, um, because I think that's where you start to get into some controversy on certain medications. So, uh, for me, I like to list out all the different, uh, options that are available. So, I mean, topical minoxidil is, um, you know, one of the most mainstays of treatments, um, you know, here in Canada, United States, it's just over the counter. You can just go pick it up from your pharmacy, apply it. Um, I'm not sure if that's the case in Europe, but it's, uh, it's over the counter, but, um, uh, and that's usually a mainstay of treatment. You're not really targeting that whole five, uh, five alpha reductase DHT, um, mechanism. You're more so through five or six different mechanisms, stimulating more and more hair growth. And so topical minoxidil actually becomes a bit of a treatment option for other types of hair loss as well, like telogen effluvium and other kinds of hair loss, rather than just solely for male pattern baldness. I mean, women can also routinely use it. Um, side point, it is, uh, toxic to some pets. So I think a bit of a, um, FYI for some people who use it. Then on the same minoxidil side, um, you know, it doesn't work that well for some people. And one reason we run into that is, uh, some men have, uh, or I shouldn't say some men, some humans in general have, uh, um, a deficiency in the enzyme, uh, salt 1A1. And so minoxidil as a drug, when it's applied, it's actually a pro drug. It has to convert to the active form through the enzyme salt 1A1, sulfur transferase. And so some men have, or sorry, some people have a deficiency in that enzyme. And so, um, what we can do is we can apply a medication like a dappling to the scalp as an adjunct with the minoxidil to help upregulate that conversion of the minoxidil to its active form. Um, and then, uh, at that point also, because it helps increase skin cell turnover, it also increases penetration of that minoxidil into the deep into the scalp. So, um, it helps improve the, um, absorption close to on par with like the oral minoxidil and oral minoxidil. Another option to old blood pressure medication. Um, a lot of the people here, some people, dermatologists still will prescribe for hair loss. Um, I will occasionally prescribe it for some patients depending on what options are available. Um, it does have, um, you know, in the United States, the FDA did put a black box warning for like spontaneous pericardial fusion. So it's a risk, um, you know, it's one of an informed risk benefit discussion with the patient. Um, I will sometimes use it for other kinds of hair loss as well. Um, but it's a risk calculation, I think like anything else. And then, uh, more famously, I think obviously, uh, or infamously finasteride, um, you know, approved in many countries for treatment of androgenic alopecia. Usually use that one milligram daily dosing. And, uh, with you're shutting off that five alpha reductase pathway. Well, I shouldn't say shutting down, you're doing a reduction by about 70%. And so you're getting decreased DHT at the scalp. Um, you're getting efficacy in terms of, uh, um, improving the hair loss. And then there's the trade-off risk where you carry a background risk of, you know, um, sexual dysfunction, rectal dysfunction, libido, mood changes, and so on. And then, uh, with the caveat that a subset of those people, when they discontinue the finasteride might not have recovery of that, um, of those, of those, you know, uh, you know, physiologic processes like normal sexual function. And so this is one of those cases where you're ultimately, uh, you know, my take on it is you, uh, look at the studies, you look at this, uh, where the patient specifically, and you look at the data. I would say, uh, data that's more neutral objective. And then, you know, they can make an informed decision of what they want to do. Um, do tests right as another option. And I don't prescribe that in my practice generally for, um, hair loss, uh, um, just with the, the systemic side effect risk. And I think it's quite, uh, quite profound. Um, and then, uh, topical, uh, finasteride and dutasteride are, um, options. And the topical finasteride should ideally have about, um, I would say pretty minimal. Again, this is one of those, the compounding pharmacy things where it's like, you don't know for sure, like how reliable it is. And what from one pharmacy to the next, the other guy in the other town, it's going to be variability. And so, um, but if you're getting a good product, I mean, it should be, the absorption should be adequate. The systemic absorption should be minimal. That's, I guess you could say, theoretically speaking, that's how it should be. Um, a little bit pricier, um, but it's an option. Um, on the list, on our list of options, topical dutasteride, um, theoretically, again, this is just more, more, it's a little more academic, but theoretically it's an option, but, um, the molecule size is quite big. And so I've been, I guess, a little skeptical on how it's getting into the scalp, but, um, I do recall seeing one piece of data that showed there was absorption. But again, I would say a little more academic perhaps. Um, dutasteride mesotherapy. So the rationale being you're injecting dutasteride about, uh, you know, three to four millimeters into the, uh, the scalp and you're, um, getting very localized absorption with minimal systemic absorption. And the rationale on why dutasteride is used is, um, the long half-life essentially. And so, uh, you're able to do periodic injections every couple months and lower that localized DHT without getting systemic absorption of DHT. And, uh, I think when you move past, I mean, you have your DHT blockade medications, you have your monoxylo blockade medications, then you start moving into some other class of cosmetic treatments, essentially PRP, PRF, red light therapy, and so on. Um, so that's kind of under the cosmetic umbrella. Of course, you have your hair transplant option. People who get hair transplant will still need some maintenance therapy afterwards. I think some people who pursue hair transplant don't always know that, but you often need some maintenance therapy after. And so I think for the patient who starts on TRT, I think it's really just, they need to know if you have a predisposition, that's a big if, then there could be an acceleration of that process on TRT. Um, and then it's really just that they're aware of it. Doesn't mean that we've told them, Hey, you need to care about this. It's just personal choice. If they care about it, they need to know that it can accelerate that process. Doesn't actually mean that'll happen. And I do have some patients who have a little bit of, um, uh, you know, background androgenic alopecia who go on TRT and they don't generally get much worsening of their hair loss. And then, uh, from there, it's really just monitoring. I mean, if someone wants to intervene on it, then we can intervene with them. If they don't want to intervene, then we don't need to. Um, and then beyond that, it just, you know, just remains a, a personal choice. Um, you know, I, and then I get questions about supplements. I tell them, well, supplements probably for taking something like biotin or something, it's not going to, you know, you're not going to go from major thinning to like complete reversal of that. Um, there's other things like ketoconazole shampoo and localized anti-DHD effects. Maybe it works as an adjunct, a little add on. I'm not sure it's like a, it's not going to completely reverse the process. And then, um, and then obviously making sure their diet, lifestyle, everything's optimized stressors and so on. I do see patients with mixed telogen effluvium and, um, androgenic alopecia. It's like, well, they're very stressed and they're losing care from that. And simultaneously they're also thinning. So got to make sure we don't mix those two things up. What do you think about combining minoxidil or topical finasteride with a micro needling at home? Yeah, I think, uh, definitely combination therapy, I think, uh, can work mechanistically can work quite well. Um, we actually have a lot of products here that are, um, automatically like combined therapy, uh, topical, topical combined agents. They can apply them twice a day. There's a lot of patients you'll tell them, uh, um, you know, like apply this twice a day, apply this twice a day. But then you get to the reality of it. It's like the person has a greasy scalp basically 24 hours a day. So, um, I think, uh, combined therapy, I think, uh, can work quite well with minoxidil and the topical finasteride. You avoid systemic absorption risk of the finasteride as well. Microneedling, I think, as, especially when combined with other agents like that, I think has some reasonably good evidence behind this, uh, efficacy. So I think it's a pretty good option. Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah, that's clear. Um, that's my experience as well. I, uh, prescribe a lot of, uh, minoxidil, um, very rarely, uh, finasteride because I'm a bit afraid of the, uh, post-finasteride syndrome, uh, reviews and, uh, witnesses that I had on the channel already. So, uh, yeah, I don't, I don't take it too far. I try to reason with them and, uh, explain that it's just a normal process, not a disease. And then, yeah, that is just genetically, if you're prone to it, it might accelerate a little bit. And that's all. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think to understand that it's not like a, a disease that they're getting, I think that's the key part. Yeah. Um, genetic predisposition, it's not a cause either. Cause I think, um, some people get afraid that like, oh, well, I took TRT and that's why like, this is going to happen. It's the same thing with heart disease and the prostate and everything, right? It's in that whole same umbrella of like, listen, like, these are not the causes. TRT is not the cause of these things. And so if you have genetic predisposition, then you have genetic predisposition, right? And then obviously making sure it's not a completely different diagnosis either. Yeah. Personally, I looked my hair way before TRT. My grandfather lost his hair without TRT whatsoever. So yeah, if you're genetically prone to it, you might as well accept it. And, uh, yeah, but that's difficult for young guys. If they come to me 22 years old, 25 and they're thinning. Yeah. It's difficult to accept sometimes. And we might try something to, uh, postpone the shedding. Yeah.