debunking common TRT misconceptions. So I guess we should talk about TRT is bad for your heart. TRT is bad for your prostate. You have to donate on TRT. So all these typical misconceptions, where do they come from? And why do other doctors or a lot of other providers keep on repeating them? >> I mean, that's the general question for humanity, right? Why do we repeat things that we've never looked into as fact? And my gosh, look at the last few days. what's going on right now with people speculating like they know what's going on with certain events in the world. They don't. Um, we like to drum up stories in our head and and when it comes to hormones, the amount of storytelling around them and I think a lot of it, and I'm speculating here, too. I don't know why the misinformation is the way it is. I noticed it in med school because, you know, I grew up studying steroids, researching things when I was in high school and later into college. Like, I really enjoyed the topic. And even then, you you get a feel for how people think about hormones and even just general testosterone replacement. It gets the stigma. And I think it probably is because of the um performance-enhancing world, maybe the abuse side. Um and they equate the two things, which is a total nonsequiter. It doesn't follow that because you can abuse something that using it is wrong or dangerous. Uh you can abuse water, whatever, you know? I mean, it's just insane. But um that that just sticks and you you hear it from I mean I heard it in med school over and over and over again even from just med students who didn't know anything about anything yet and oh yeah those hormones they're hor I can't believe somebody put something on hormones and so I don't know the motives behind it. I don't understand the mindset. It just is out there and it's I think it's slowly getting better. The I I'm seeing a shift uh in some of the physician groups I'm in on Facebook. A lot of urologists especially are wanting to get into the hormone space, but they still are believing a lot of things that are wrong, but at least they're more open to even doing it. I mean, 20 years ago, there's no, you don't need that. You know, it's just crazy. Um, so I don't know the wise, but people repeat dogmas uh as truth without looking into it. They've done this for several things you mentioned, right? They've done it for uh things about donating blood, the high hematocrit, you know, on testosterone replacement, prostate cancer stuff, estradile. Those would be the three big I would say misconceptions. Um and then the heart disease, stroke risk, that's thankfully been looked at in meta analyses at this point. Like you can pretty much mark that off the list. There's and I don't like statistical studies because you you can't compare something inside an individual to themselves. you're comparing different people in different groups and then you're looking for differences. It's like, yeah, but you don't know what would have happened in that one individual over time, you know, whatever. But it's the best we have and if you don't see an increase in association, maybe you can at least mark it off as a causation and that's kind of the best I see for those kind of studies. So I think when you see that in the uh studies done on on cardiovascular risk, cardiovascular disease, MI, strokes, DVTs, there's just no no increased association with that even and and I don't even see that they're controlling hematocrit in a lot in a lot of those studies at all. That's what I always tell people. But um there's no evidence that increased hematocrit as on its own like that lab value causes anything bad like causation wise. People speculate all day long about viscosity. They call it thick blood. If you go and look at viscosity research, most of it's all done outside of the body. You can't actually check the viscosity inside the body. And if you look at some studies done, the viscosities are actually worse in those with lower hemoglobin hematic or at least in ape ape studies and things like that. They don't really study this in humans. There's not a good incentive to study it. Um, but from what I tell people is here's here's my philosophy on it. And if other people disagree, I'm fine with that. We all have our boundaries. My philosophy for all these things is if I don't have actual evidence to to recommend an intervention, I cannot in good conscience recommend it. What I can tell you is those interventions come with costs themselves. So in my mindset of as a physician do no harm. How can I recommend somebody do a procedure or take a drug without any evidence behind it when I know those things doing those things can actually cause harm. So that's my stance on that. Whether it comes to frequent phbotoies which can cause harm. You're literally mimicking a hemorrhage acutely and that causes a cascade of things in the body and also causes overcompensation. We see it all the time in the Facebook group, right? I keep donating and my hematocrit ends up higher than it was. It's like yeah, that's uh that's pretty normal. Human physiology, the body the body is designed very well and so it will respond accordingly. And so you would have to bleed out pretty frequently to keep that number low. Well, then what are you doing? Why are you doing that? You know, all to chase a number that nobody can prove is a problem. Um, and so that's that's my first thing on on the myths about hematic or hemoglobin. U, prostate cancer thankfully has been looked at for at least 20 years now, and they've kind of debunked all that myth that testosterone either causes it or even fuels it. I hope that spills over into the female world soon because the same dogma is repeated about estradiol when there's just no good evidence for that. Now, is there evidence that some hormones can cause harm? Yeah, but not all hormones are the same. People like to make these um hasty generalizations, right? And they they put everything into one category. It's just like people do with carbohydrates, you know, in the oh, oh, because this one these few over here maybe may be bad, therefore all carbs are bad. It's like, no, everything stands or falls on its own. Um, so it's going to be the same thing with with these hormones and and cancer risks and things like that. But um you know I always tell people of course if if you have a hormone sensitive tissue that becomes cancerous or a part of it does it's still going to be hormone sensitive. The hormones aren't causing that. And of course if you withdraw the hormones you might see the tissue shrink away and shrivel. People equate shriveling a tumor with a good outcome when it's like you don't know that doing that is actually doing anything for why that cancer is there in the first place. You're just chasing an effect, right? You can do it with chemo. I could I could cut off a blood supply to a tumor and shrink it. That has nothing to do with the total health of the person. >> Um, so people don't I think hard enough on these topics and they're chasing effects instead of chasing root causes. Um, but again, there's no evidence that testosterone causes or fuels prostate cancer. I think I've talked about this before. I had guys as a practicing urologist who had prostate cancer like low grad. They were doing surveillance and they wanted to be on TRT. And based on the many studies done on that with Dr. from Morgan Tyler's group. I was comfortable doing that. And guess what? None of them that I ever saw had sudden rapid progression of their cancer. In fact, a lot of the PSA numbers got better. Not that PSA is a great test. It can change all the time, but in general, people with prostate cancer, it will slowly, you know, rise over time. And I would see their PSA numbers improve. Um, and is that because their health got better? I I don't know. That's all speculative. What what I saw was no no increased risk. And they felt better. they felt like humans again. So these people that are wanting to castrate them or keep them castrated all to chase a PSA marker on its own, they're not taking into account the whole person and what their goals are in life and their desires, you know. Um and then as far as uh the estradile, I mean that's the one we've hammered before. That's a big myth misconception. Uh I'm going to be talking about that this uh coming November at the Silverback Summit. I'm going to give a little talk on estradile. Again, just kind of a refresher. I think it's good to rehash that topic over and over again and yeah, but you know what people don't understand is that the >> they chase again a lab number that can't really be validated to mean anything at all. A serum estradile value in a male is pretty much useless. Um because the at least according to the research and how it's done, the aromatization process takes place once testosterone enters the tissue itself. uh and then it converts and that's going to happen in varying amounts depending on the tissues needs and all these other things. So it's essentially an intricate process which we talked about and measuring a serum level you don't know what it means and so and it will always be above normal pretty much in anyone taking testosterone because those normal values baselines are not obtained from people taking these compounds. So you would have to have a whole different set of normals for people on the hormones to even get a statistical distribution. But even then, statistics don't tell you anything about where one ought to be as an individual. So that's the philosophical issue there. So yeah, the those would be the big misconceptions. Uh or you know the little ones like, oh, it's going to give you roid rage, you're going to rage, you're going to be an angry person. >> I don't see it. Honestly, I've take I take testosterone. I've taken steroids. Like I didn't rage with any of them. But in general, my guys on get on testosterone feel completely better. Their their moods improve. Uh, and I know you've seen it, too. We see it all the time, just how much better people feel in general, a little more just resilient to stressors. Now, I do think some people when they get on testosterone, if they've been a bump on a log for a while, they may become more assertive as they're feeling better. And that can come across, let's say, to a spouse, a wife that was used to running the show. um that can come across as angry, right? Well, okay, if you want to call it that, but he may just finally be feeling good enough to like assert himself. And I I have seen that happen. But in general, I just see people's moods improve. I don't see the rage and and all this stuff. So, >> maybe one more. You're going to lose your hair because you're on TRT. >> Yeah. Again, there's plenty of guys, this is my whole thing. I'm like, not the majority of men in general will lose their hair over time, TRT or not. That's just the way it is. >> So, you can't prove that TRT ever caused it in the first place. A lot of people will see shedding, but shedding comes cycllically, too. Like, there's different growth phases and things like that. Stress. I mean, we're all under so much stress in America especially, but westernized countries, you can lose your hair for lots of reasons, poor food, poor diet, poor sleep. U But it's not a given that taking testosterone will cause you is gonna you're going to lose your hair. But I do want men to understand that it's going to be a fact of life that most of us will have hair recession at least at some point or in certain places. I mean, I'm getting it here, right? Uh it's just part of it. And I I don't think twice about it. The guys who I understand the the desire not to lose the hair. Like I I don't want to, but at what cost are you going to try to prevent that? And that's where I try to counsel people that if you really want to preserve it, I mean, you're going to probably have to do something radical, whether it be take some kind of pill that you hope works that's going to wreck your health, like a finasteride or minoxidil or something like that, or you go and get surgery done, you know, the little transplant. And that's probably at the end of the day, if you really want to maintain your hair or have more, that's probably a smarter way to do it, honestly, than taking drugs. Um because the drugs don't do do what people hope they do per se and they do cause harm. And so that to me again do no harm. It's like I can't if guys want to do it they'll tell me you know patients will ask me about it and I'll counsel them. I wouldn't recommend it and I won't prescribe that. If they want to do it on their own go for it. Um I do recommend if you're going to do something do and not do surgery do a topical over a systemic. You're still going to absorb some of it but you may have a less less systemic effects doing topical than a pill. Hey, hey, hey.