I am very happy to be your guest again and it is truly an honor for me. Regarding your question, unfortunately yes, injectable testosterone therapy essentially TRT suppresses the production of spermatozoa in men through a negative feedback system that connects the hypothalamus, the pituitary gland and the testicles. Exogenous testosterone therapy causes this negative feedback system to interrupt through the estrogen receptors because we know that testosterone aromatizes into estrogen and inhibits the activity of the axis which therefore at the testicular level manifests itself with a reduced steroidogenesis therefore production of testosterone which we are in any case taking from the outside and spermatogenesis therefore the formation of spermatozoa usually of this suppression process occurs in a fairly short time and it is all very subjective. But usually already within the space of two to three months maximum in a spermiogram we will have a very reduced number of spermatozoa which often does not exceed One Million elements Orson rules of administrations there are no particular strategies certainly the injectable TRT is the most  Aggressive therapy with transges scrotal cream perhaps has a minor suppressive effect on spermatogenesis. What we can do is try to ensure that the testicle continues to work and to do this we must stimulate it, stimulate it essentially either with gonadotropins, synthetic H, which induces a stimulation of the helix cells and thus determines an intratesticular testosterone production, or even with Isernia with antiestrogens, for example clomiphene or its active steroisomer, enclomiphene, which have a so-called distracting action on the pituitary gland. It goes to occupy the estrogen receptors, tricking the pituitary gland by not allowing it to recognize the estrogens that are in circulation in this way. In this way, it will continue to produce FSH of the H, which will therefore give a stimulus directly to the testicle. In this way, with this strategy we administer endogenous testosterone and at the same time either with synthetic gonadotropins or with clomiphene, sermo tamoxifen. Even if I use this much less. we can try to keep spermatogenesis active as well. Sygic absolutely agree when starting TRT in a young hypogonadal patient the issue of fertility must absolutely be addressed. What you say is absolutely correct, therefore freezing the sperm and doing a Clio conservation and at the same time immediately carrying out a stimulatory therapy for example with synthetic LH with gonadotropin precisely to try to keep spermatogenesis active. These patients, being hypogonadal, already have a low production of testosterone which however we compensate with external administration and also of spermatozoa, therefore Clio conservation and MyWind stimulatory therapy to be in further of Our Music in the man in TRT who needs to find a pregnancy together with his partner clearly we have to make choices. I personally tell you the truth, continue the TRT by inserting commercial names and Gonases and fostimon into the therapy which would be synthetic RH and synthetic FSH sometimes also associated with clomiphene. This triplet of aids could increase spermatogenesis even with the patient in TRT when this does not happen.  I am forced to interrupt the TRT sometimes I compensate for the lack of exogenous treatment with the treatment with bioidentical hormones that do not have a suppressive activity and at the same time I maintain the stimulation with synthetic RH and synthetic FSH in this way not always but often it is possible to recover a portion of spermatogenesis for a pregnancy prevents natural or for an assisted pregnancy many are vaccinis hello I thank you I greet all your followers and all the people who follow you I am also a follower of yours on the channel I greet you everyone and see you at our next meeting consider test Store for insulineas and dancecyglows files My ebook The Ultimate guide to Theron Cream museumsking mplabs of programs