Dr. Grant, you mentioned you have some experience with anabolics. How would an average person go about trying anabolics for performance reasons? Mostly, how do I trust the source of the actual compounds? Let's just add a little disclaimer that we don't promote nor condone the usage of anab. >> Yeah, I can't answer from a as a medical doctor, obviously, I can't tell you how to source anabolics. Um, but in the past, yes, I have played with a lot of things and you don't know what you're getting is real. you you really take it on faith and you hopefully use somebody's source that you know that they use something real but even they don't know they just got results they don't know that what they were taking was what they thought they were taking. Um, I think again this is why I'm more on the conservative end of things and you the one of the least faked things would be testosterone and if guys have never tried bumping the testosterone for a long time low and slow that's how you get the gains muscle these guys do thinking I'm going to do a 10e cycle and I'm going to get blow up with muscle. No, you're not. It's not muscle. There's a reason people shrivel back down. Even professional bodybuilders, look how much weight they lose when they get off gear. It wasn't real muscle. It's it's not it's water. It's inflammation. It's all these other things going on. It's not literal tissue. If it was literal tissue, you would not lose that much that quickly. And it's the same thing when you stop a little short cycle. Whereas somebody takes 300 milligrams a week of testosterone with zero negatives and works their butt off and eats right for two, three years and might slowly bump that dose up. You're going to be ahead of the game on the actual muscle tissue side of things in my opinion. Um I mean I did crazy stupid stuff in college and I never looked that you know I blew up with water but I did like 1,250 milligrams a week of testosterone with I mean it's stupid. Uh whereas years ago, not that long ago, I did 200 a week of testosterone, 200 a week of master for like a year. That's like nothing. It's not even a starter cycle for most people. Um I looked better than I ever had at that point. Now I'm leaner now than I ever have been. I think I look better now than I did then and all I'm on is my testosterone cream. But it just time and effort, you can't replace that. So that's just what I would say. But as far as trusting sources, shoot, I've been out of that world for so long now. Like even when I was in it, I didn't know who to trust unless you have access to it directly. Um it was a lot easier pre201, you know, back in the day, back in the good old days when uh before 911 and all the crackdown on the borders and everything. I mean, there was a lot of cool stuff at that time, but I think those days are gone. Hey.