What is TAT ​​or Testosterone Replacement Therapy? TAT is an acronym for Testosterone Replacement Therapy, sometimes also called Hormone or Androgen Replacement Therapy. It is a medical treatment to treat low testosterone levels, which can occur due to age or as a result of illness. The body produces less testosterone as we age; this is a completely natural process that begins in our late 20s or early 30s. This gradual reduction in production usually causes no symptoms, but after a few years, the following symptoms may appear: decreased libido, less frequent spontaneous erections, erectile dysfunction, low sperm count, sleep problems, unusual loss of muscle and bone density, loss of energy, and unexplained weight gain. To find out if you really have low testosterone, the only way is to have your blood levels checked, along with some other things that are explained in several videos on this channel. There are various ways to take or administer testosterone: gels, injections, creams, patches, nasal sprays, oral medication, and pellets. However, almost all the experts active on this channel agree that the best methods are injections or creams for daily use. You can learn much more about this in the other videos.  What we've done so far is that testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) is usually a lifelong decision, as it replaces the body's own insufficient testosterone production with exogenous testosterone. If someone stops the TRT, the original symptoms return because the body reverts to its original insufficient testosterone production. Check out some of the other videos we've made about the possible side effects and the costs of TRT. Both are frequently asked questions. The bottom line is this: before you start TRT, inform yourself as thoroughly as possible and find a good provider who can help you on your journey to better health and quality of life. To help with both of these factors, the Facebook group "TRT" was created, and " optimization" was founded. Many of the experts featured in the videos on this channel are also in the aforementioned Facebook group and can help you find a good clinic and answer any questions you may have. Next, click here to start the playlist that will teach you the basics of starting testosterone replacement therapy.