What is TRT testosterone replacement therapy? TNT is an abbreviation for testosterone replacement therapy, or in Dutch, testosterone replacement therapy or testosterone therapy. It is a medical treatment used to treat low testosterone levels. It can occur as a consequence of a medical condition or simply by continuing. Our bodies naturally produce less testosterone as we age. It is a natural process that begins around age 30, or sometimes a few years earlier. The average decline in testosterone does not cause clear symptoms after 10 years. After a few years, the following symptoms may occur: low libido or difficulty with sex, spontaneous erections, impotence, reduced sperm volume, sleep problems, unusual loss of muscle mass and body density, and unexplained sexual behavior. The only way to know for sure if you have low testosterone is to have your blood levels checked, along with several other things that we explain on this channel in various videos. There are various ways to administer testosterone: Gils injections, creams.  Patches, nasal spray capsules, and implants are common, but all experts who have already visited this channel agree that the best way is either injections or a prescription testosterone cream for daily use. You can learn much more about this in other videos we make. TRT is normally intended for life. You replace your own escalating testosterone production with externally administered testosterone. If you stop testosterone therapy, you return to your own developed production with all the associated symptoms. Watch other videos we make about possible side effects and the cost of TRT. These are both frequently asked questions, but the most important thing is that before you start therapy, make sure you survive as much as possible and find a good doctor for yourself who can help you on the road to better health and quality of life. To help with both of these things, I created the Facebook group TNT and hormone optimization. Many experts who see the video on this channel are in this Facebook group, and you can help them find the clinic and also help them with any questions you may have. But for the most part, click here.  on this playlist that will inform you further about starting to yarter