the range of free testosterone. I I I know have you already stated that uh on the channel many times you don't like just blanket numbers, but people are always asking about uh free testosterone ranges, but is it really important? Is it the free testosterone that makes you feel better? >> Yes, but that doesn't mean that everything else is moot. uh free testosterone is certainly essential and uh you know everyone always wants ranges right so I'm going to give you a range but I'm going to give it to you with an asterisk and that asterisk is that it is not a range that is a one-sizefits-all there are people that feel better slightly below there are very rare few people that do need a little bit more um and I hate saying that because every guys always think more is better with testosterone so they're always going to say hey I'm the guy that needs more and I will tell you there are a lot of side effects that come with higher free tea And oftentimes what guys refer to as estrogen side effects, they're actually high free tea side effects. So um that comes from crushing their SHBG with improper protocols and uh that lowers your total tea which makes them think they need more tea which actually exacerbates the problem of further lowering SHBG and increasing free tea. It's a vicious cycle which is very difficult to explain to patients. When I train providers, I put this on a whiteboard to to make sense of it for them, but it's a little hard for people to visualize until they truly understand what's going on. Um, free tea, most of my guys, I would say 90% of my men report feeling symptom resolution to an extent when their free tea falls in a range of between 20 nanogs per deciliter and 35 nanogs per deciliter. That is generally where you're going to find the biggest uh proportion of of of people who report resolution to some of the symptoms on their atom score. You're going to have the outliers below where they may be at 17 18 anogs and they feel great. You may have the guys that you know in that range that don't feel well and you got to push them a little bit and that's rare. Uh but overall I would say in an anog uh uh scenario that is where uh most fall in. And I will say that a lot of labs check pogs per milliliter. You got to move the decimal over to the left one to convert to nanogs. And then you have nanom moles over in Europe which is a completely different formula. That is 28.8 multiple uh to get the nanog number. So uh you got to do a little bit of math. But I would just here's the thing to alleviate all this possible confusion. My answer is always the same. Find a competent provider who truly understands this stuff and then the rest will just fall into place.