 origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin You know, everyone always wants ranges, right? So I'm going to give you a range, but I'm going to give it to you with an asterisk. And that asterisk is that it is not a range that is a one-size-fits-all. There are people that feel better slightly below. There are very rare few people that do need a little bit more. And I hate saying that because guys always think more is better with testosterone. So they're always going to say, hey, I'm the guy that needs more. And I will tell you, there are a lot of side effects that come with higher free tea. And oftentimes what guys refer to as estrogen side effects, they're actually high free tea side effects. So that comes from crushing their SHBG with improper protocols. And that lowers your total tea, which makes them think they need more tea, which actually exacerbates the problem of further lowering SHBG and increasing free tea. It's a vicious cycle, which is very difficult to explain to patients. When I train providers, I put this on a whiteboard to make sense of it for them. But it's a little hard for people to visualize until they truly understand what's going on. Free tea, most of my guys, I would say 90% of my men report feeling symptom resolution to an extent when their free tea falls in a range of between 20 nanograms per deciliter and 35 nanograms per deciliter. That is generally where you're going to find the biggest proportion of people who report resolution to some of the symptoms on their ADAMS score. You're going to have the outliers below where they may be at 17, 18 nanograms and they feel great. You may have the guys that, you know, in that range that don't feel well and you've got to push them a little bit and that's rare. But overall, I would say in an anagram scenario, that is where most fall in. And I will say that a lot of labs check picograms per milliliter. You've got to move the decimal over to the left one to convert the nanograms. And then you have nanomoles over in Europe, which is a completely different formula. That is 28.8 multiple to get the nanogram number. So you've got to do a little bit of math. But I would just – here's the thing. To alleviate all this possible confusion, my answer is always the same. Find a competent provider who truly understands this stuff and then the rest will just fall into place. origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin origin