If I feel good on one injection per two weeks or one injection per week, is there a medical long-term reason to switch to more frequent injections like twice per week? Yeah, it's interesting. There's there's a little debate about this in the community, right? You talk to, you know, if you got a group of, you know, us providers together, you'd hear some hear some different, you know, some different things about it. Um, I don't think there's any great um literature or research showing that there would be a big difference. And I, you know, symptom resolution is is is kind of king, too. So, if you're feeling great, uh, you know, why mess with it? Unless there's something else bad going under the hood that, you know, that that we're seeing. Um, I do think most people seem to do a little bit better with more frequent injections. And even if they are feeling good and don't notice anything different, they might notice some difference in some other parameters on their blood work if they did change change that kind of thing. Um, I I I would say for the most part, if you're feeling great, if if you're doing two weeks, you know, one injection every two weeks, there's no way you're not going to have some improvements by going more frequently. If you're feeling pretty good at once a week injection, okay, I'll I'll meet you there. I think that's okay. Um, I think almost everyone does better with two to three shots per week, but as far as long-term health problems, I mean, there's these are long acting medications. The, you know, the difference we're talking about is probably not going to be a huge difference. I know that's not uh not a popular opinion with with everyone, but uh yeah, somewhere between, you know, three shots per week and maybe, you know, ve very few folks will do okay with, you know, with one and feel great long term. >> There there will be a consequence for SHBG for sure if you only do once per week. >> Yeah. And I've seen and I'm hesitating here too because I've seen some guys where it doesn't seem to make a whole a whole lot of difference and but it but it it certainly can. It certainly can, right? So, if you have someone who's, you know, a high and and that might adjust over time, too, depending upon your lab. So, that's why it's important to get some, you know, some uh some comprehensive labs, see where the SBG is going because things can change, right? You start taking you start taking um an exogenous hormone like testosterone, it's going to start driving your SHBG down, and now we might have to change the protocol. So, maybe you started as someone who, you know, who's actually doing great with a less frequent injection, but over time, you might, you know, you might benefit as you as you adjust things a little bit. Um, an SHBG itself as a as a health marker is a is a pretty interesting one, right? I mean, you definitely don't want to see it going too low. That's definitely a sign of some bad things happening happening metabolically. Uh, and then, you know, higher can sometimes be better, but then too high can be too high also. So, uh, not not a number to chase. Something to keep an eye on and definitely adjust as you go. But if I'm starting off someone fresh, I' i'd never start them at just one injection per week. No, no way I'd start them at two per week. Um, usually I have them about three three times per >> Um, I'm sorry, I should say no way I would do them, you know, once every two weeks, not not two times per week. Most of my guys started three injections per week. Um, some of them, you know, some of them do good with two. I think every patient I have right now who's doing once a week is someone who came to me from somewhere else and has been doing it for a long time and they feel great and their labs look great and they don't want to change anything. So, we just leave it. But for for the most part, I think more frequent is probably you're probably just going to feel a little better whether you know it or not. >> Sure.