 s Yeah, it's interesting, there's there's a little debate about this in the community, right? You talked to, you know, if you've got a group of, you know, as providers together, you'd hear some, here's some different, you know, some different things about it. I don't think there's any great literature or research showing that there will be a big difference, and I, you know, symptom resolution is kind of king too. too. So if you're feeling great, you know, why mess with it unless there's something else bad going under the hood that, you know, that we're seeing. I do think most people seem to do a little bit better with more frequent injections. And even if they are feeling good and don't notice anything different, they might notice some difference in some other parameters on their blood work if they did change, change that kind of thing. I would say for the most part, if you're feeling great, if you're doing two weeks, you know, one injection every two weeks, there's no way you're not going to have some improvements by going more frequently. If you're feeling pretty good at once a week injection, okay, I'll meet you there. I think that's okay. I think almost everyone does better with two to three shots per week. But as far as long-term health problems, I mean, these are long-acting medications. You know, the difference we're talking about is probably not going to be a huge difference. I know that's not a popular opinion with everyone, but yeah, somewhere between, you know, three shots per week and maybe, you know, very few folks will do okay with, you know, with one and feel great long-term. There will be a consequence for SHBG for sure, if you only do once per week. Yeah. And I've seen, and I'm hesitating here too, because I've seen some guys where it doesn't seem to make a whole, a whole lot of difference. And, but it, but it certainly can. It certainly can. Right. So if you have someone who's, you know, a high, and that might adjust over time too, depending upon your lab. So that's why it's important to get some, you know, some, some comprehensive labs, see where the SPG is going because things can change, right? You start taking, you start taking an exogenous hormone like testosterone, it's going to start driving your SHBG down. And now you might have to change the protocol. So maybe you started as someone who, you know, who's actually doing great with a less frequent injection, but over time you might, you know, it might benefit as you, as you adjust things a little bit. Um, and SHBG itself as a, as a health marker is a, is a pretty interesting one, right? I mean, you definitely don't want to see it going too low. That's definitely a sign of some bad things happening, happening metabolically. Uh, and then, you know, higher can sometimes be better, but then too high can be too high also. So, uh, not a number to chase something to keep an eye on and definitely adjust as you go. But if I'm starting off someone fresh, I'd never start them at just one injection per week. No, no way I'd start them at two per week. Um, usually I have about three, three times per week. Um, I'm sorry, I should say no way I would do them, you know, once every two weeks, not two times per week. Uh, most of my guys started three injections per week. Um, some of them, you know, some of them do good with two. I think every patient I have right now who's doing once a week is someone who came to me from somewhere else and has been doing it for a long time and they feel great and their labs look great. Uh, and they don't want to change anything. So we just leave it. But for the most part, I think more frequent is probably, you're probably just going to feel a little better whether you know it or not. Sure.