Today we're talking about Tessa Morlin which is a growth hormone secret and this video is at the request of my friend and colleague Dr. Steven Dvos of the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel. So Tessa Morlin works as an endogenous analog of what's known as growth hormone releasing hormone. And GHR is released from the hypothalamus and then GHRH tells the anterior pituitary to make growth hormone. and when growth hormones released. It has a downstream stimulation on the production of IGF-1 from the liver. So tesamor was released I believe in 2009 2010 under the FDA approved name called erya and it was indicated for patients who have HIV lipodistrophe. HIV lipodistrophe is a condition where you have a redistribution of your fat or you should say a change in your body composition. So you have a reduction in subcutaneous fat but you have an increase in visceral fat particularly central visceral atyposity. So all around the torso. So you have a reduction of fat in the limbs. So arms, legs, also an increase of fat on the torso cervical region which is back here by the shoulder blades. And we sometimes refer to that as the buffalo hump. And some of the consequences of HIV lipodistrophe are increased central atypoposity which can lead to fatty liver disease, insulin resistance, metabolic disgraas such as increased triglycerides, worsening lipid profile as well as increased cardiovascular risk. And HIV lipodistrophe can be a result of the anti-retroviral drugs such as the protease inhibitors. even if they're not on the drugs, some patients with HIV can still experience lipodistrophe, but it is more highly correlated with the administration and utilization of the HIV anti-retrovirals. So, some treatments of HIV lipodistrophe include things such as metformin or drugs belonging to a class of drugs such as the TZDs. So, a drug like that would be paglitazone. Some people elect for plastic surgery and the last one which brings us here which is Tessa Morlin. And the reason tessamorin has been implicated and utilized as a tool in treating lipodistrophe is because we know that growth hormone is great at breaking down fat tissue. It does so through a process called lipolysis and there's several proposed mechanisms of action of how it does this and hormone sensitive lipase is one of the pathways. atapose triglyceride lipase is another pathway it does this as well as other mechanisms of action that we don't fully know in some of the HIV lipodistrov trials it was shown that tessaorin can help reduce VAT which is visceral atapost tissue upwards of 15% in the intervention group whereas the group who received placebo practically had no change whatsoever it was less than 1% as to be expected now the results for the testimor treated group yes it did sustain ain those results as long as they were remaining on the drug. Besides reductions in visceral fat, the patients treated also demonstrated improvements in liver fat. So fatty liver disease, which has now been renamed MASH, M A SH, which means metabolic associated dysfunction, stato hepatitis, because it encompasses a constellation of different things that's going on. Besides improving MASH and/or what we call fatty liver disease, it's also been shown to reduce triglycerides. In the studies, it shown about A-50 pointish reduction. And cholesterol levels, it also showed about a 30% reduction as well. Now, in the lipodistrophe groups though, once they discontinue the drug, it's possible that they could reaccumulate some of that fat. Can we extrapolate these same results to the general population who does not have lipodistrophe, who does not have HIV, who are not on anti-retroviral drugs, that I don't know. And lastly, it's demonstrated ongoing and static improvements in IGF-1 production from the liver, which is to be expected. Now, I have gripes about IGF-1 testing, which include the fact that IGF-1 isn't the most specific for GH production because there's other factors at play. I mean, you could have GH resistance, liver disease, thyroid disease, estradile production. There's multiple things going into play when it comes to IGF-1 production. But I digress. So, not only can Tesmorlin improve you cosmetically, it can also improve you metabolically. Next, let's talk about safety concerns of tessamlin. The biggest safety concern would be malignancy, which if you have a malignancy that you know about, you shouldn't take this drug period. But then again, if you have a malignancy, chances are you're probably not that worried about reducing visceral fat. Glucose intolerance, which an increase in your blood sugar could theoretically occur with this drug. If you're an otherwise healthy person, i.e. someone who doesn't have a metabolic dysfunction such as insulin resistance, MASH, obesity, something like that, I probably wouldn't be overtly concerned about glucose intolerance. Now, let's say you are someone who does have lipodistrophe. That in of itself puts you in a maloo that predisposes you to having high blood sugar and then you add a drug that could theoretically possibly increase that. And that's why you could possibly see a concern there. A little bit of fluid retention is pretty darn common. Some people complain about arthralgas, which is some joint ache, joint pain, and IGF mediated drugs are somewhat known for doing that. And icaria, which occurs in about 3 to 5% of people, and that's just itchy rash and flushing. Otherwise, it's a pretty well tolerated drug to be quite honest with you. Personally, what I've seen the most clinically and anecdotally is flushing and itchiness at the injection site. And lastly, what I've seen again clinically and in practice is that Tessa Morlin goes great with TRT and with the GLP-1. That triple stack has a very compounding effect on a patient's composition and overall metabolic health. As long as the patient is tolerating the drugs well, putting in the work, eating right, training hard like they should be, I see that combination work incredibly well. Shout out to Steve for wanting me to touch base on this drug and dig a little deeper into it. If you have any questions, leave in the comments. Give me a shout and we can talk more. Thanks. Hey, hey, hey.