What if TRT stops working? Someone said, "I'm around thousand nanogs per diliter, I guess, and still feel exhausted every day." Um, so I'd say I want to know how you're getting that blood result. So, I need to know what your regime is, how compliant you are with it. Are you really being compliant? Um, then um and then when you got the blood test, what your free testosterone is. So, rather than going around the houses, I'll talk about it sequentially. So um you want to know total testosterone that's very good thousand I think in English units that's probably around about the 30 mark upper end of reference range something like that. So that's that's a good number. So what what are you taking? Is it gels? Are you on gels? Are you on libido? When was it taken? Are you taking short acting injectables? If so what's your regime? Is it into the muscle? Is it into the subcutaneous fats? Um are you being u and are you being fully compliant with treatment? Have you just taken your things leading up to the blood test? Um, sometimes I've seen this, uh, and this isn't slating one medication over another, um, but sometimes gels are fantastic at first and then they're not and your numbers are fine and I've got no explanation for it. Seen it a couple of times and we're all different and we're not machines, although we could see it as we are, but sometimes things just don't make sense and it's not no real benefit in looking for the logic there. So, I'd say like, yeah, what are you taking? Could it be working or not? What's your SHBG? So, uh it could be high, it could be low. Um so, for example, uh if your SHBG is low, you can end up with a high free testosterone. And a testosterone that's too high can also make you feel not so good as well. So, um that and I have seen that. So, it can give you kind of um similar symptoms paradoxically to to before you started. So um there's that to think about. Um then uh so that's it. Probably best having a chat really and also your estrogen is another one I think is important. So estrogen or estradile whichever you want to call it. If that's raised that can give you nasty side effects as well. So you can feel emotional and if you were feeling a bit anxious before that will look like it's coming back. And so um your testosterone might be too high. We can lower the dose that would lower the estrogen and that that can help but just bring you back into range. your levels just might be too high. Um, so and so there's a few things you might need that you might need something like an aromatase inhibitor. I found a short course and stopping helps. I know some doctors um just prescribe it you straight away to stop the side effects, but I kind of like estrogen. I don't want you to tank it completely. You need it for long-term health as well. So, I think there's so many things going on there and it's a question I get um like too many what if questions. Um and you you spend too long explaining it. I think the best thing to do is see your physician and tell them your symptoms, give them your blood work. And I always ask patients to tell me what your latest regime is, when your bloods were taken in relation so I've got I've got all my history there. then I can listen to you and make a um make a kind of assumption or something going forward. It's a really big question to answer. So like that's why we just want the full blood panel um then along with your symptoms. Sometimes patients just go here here are my results doc and that that is literally the email I get and it's very hard to interpret that. Um, but the ones who give me lots of detail, you know, with the bloods included and everything, it allows me to formulate quite an accurate management plan for them.