orialorialorialorial,orialorial,orialorial,orial,orial,orial, I'm in a biogenous IGF-1. Are we talking? Yeah. This is something even in the bodybuilding world that used to be touted as like that was the next thing, right? That was going to be the next big thing over GH. And I know IGF can provide some benefits. I think a lot of the majority of what I see are guys getting better pumps in the gym and things like that, fluid retention. I'm like, well, how is that inducing fluid retention? First of all, it's always a good thing, right? You don't know the mechanism in the body that's causing it just because it gives you an advantage. I haven't seen like I know I've had some guys use IGF-LR3. That's in the last few years. I've not been very impressed with what I've heard from them as far as bang for buck over something like ipameralyn or something like that. It just seems to tick a few more boxes. I'm not against it. Again, people want to use these things. Go for it. See what happens. I can't really. I don't really prescribe the ones that haven't been at least studied in humans very much. And so I'm not that comfortable doing that. But a lot of providers will. Now, IGF-1 in general, that's the other thing I wanted to talk about is people get hoodwinked and get focused on like baseline IGF levels. And they try to like make claims about, oh, I'm low. It's like these are also all over the map. And you can't tie and pin these down to anything causative in the body at that time because it's just a baseline. It's not how baseline labs work. And so the best use for IGF, I think, in my opinion, from a serum blood testing standpoint is usually just to assess the value of the growth hormone somebody's taking. Exogenous growth hormone should typically show that rise in IGF. I mean, that's what you see people say to check, which you want to see if your GH is real. Right. You don't see those increases as much in guys on the peptides, GHRPs and things like that. But I tell guys that's OK. Like they freak out about it. They think, oh, because it's got the word growth hormone releasing in it. These are two different categories. And I know this is going to get me in rabbit trail territory with people, but people don't understand the difference between the exogenous substance being given and studied and what happens versus the claimed endogenous hormone that they claim they're studying. If you actually go look at how they study these things originally, you can't study that internal hormone the way people think you can. What they've done is they've derived these hormones through chemical processes with animal tissues or whatever, transformed them into something that they then claim is there originally, which may or may not be true. But then they study those manmade compounds, growth hormone, whatever they've this precipitate that was obtained from a dried up pituitary gland that they did a lot of chemicals to and called it growth hormone. Well, why do they call it that? Because it grew certain things in a Petri dish or a test tube. Same thing with IGF-1, right? That's how they came up with the idea of it is they noticed that putting GH into these like tissue cultures would not stimulate cartilage growth. But if you took the serum of animals who'd been treated with growth hormone and you apply that to these tissue cultures, that would induce cartilage growth. So they were like, oh, there must be a transformative property in the blood of these GH given animals, right? And that's how IGF got its whole start, right? And that's fine because you're kind of getting a correlate between exogenous GH and then something in the blood that you can call IGF-1 and what that does as a downstream effect. Making any claims about that from baseline levels, none of that matters. Like you just saw all these people freaking out saying, oh, IGF and cancer. It's like, no, just because you can correlate somebody's baseline IGF levels and say people with cancer may have higher IGF levels, that has nothing to do with causation. The IGF-1 levels just may be increased because they already have cancer or for some totally irrelevant reasons. So that's where I think I want to, you know, I harp on that a lot. And I don't know that many people think about it like this, but they're just two separate categories. There's baseline levels are over here. Levels via therapeutic monitoring when a substance is given are over here in this category. And these are not the same. And that's just the important thing. You know, I had a guy come to see me and he's a biochemist and he came to see me as a patient. And he started looking into the normal ranges and he's like, you know, Doc, I couldn't believe it when I saw that these ranges were not derived from people taking the hormone. Because in his world, pharmaceuticals, you think about therapeutic drug monitoring, drug level. So in his mind, he was like, that's how this should have been done. And I'm like, yeah, I know. But everybody just goes off these normal ranges, which are massive, 200 to 800, some nonsense. Like, well, that's meaningless. So I just wanted to throw that out there that these are two separate things. And I don't want people to get hung up on the IGF-1 baseline stuff as much as they do, because I think it causes unneeded stress, like most of these baseline labs do. But if you want to take IGF as an exogenous thing, again, you got to know that what you're getting is real. We don't know that with with half of these things. If a compounding pharmacy is making it, it's probably legit from that standpoint. But is IGF LR3 the same thing as IGF that was taken 20 years ago in the body? You know, I don't know. And people need to be careful with any kind of these exogenous things, because we again, you don't know what all they're doing in the body. And as long as you're OK with that, that's fine. But I wouldn't push it on unsuspecting public who aren't going to go into all that and assess the risk reward in their own life like a bodybuilder would do. Thank you.