So, welcome back to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel. And we have back with us as a guest, Dr. Jeffrey Rutderbush. Welcome back, Jeffrey. &gt;&gt; Well, thanks so much for having me back, Stephen. &gt;&gt; You're very welcome. So, let's talk today about daily micro doing testosterone for TRT. So, uh you wrote me that you have some new experiences with it that you wanted to share. Well, yes, that you know throughout my practice it's evolved. It's always evolving. And when you think about it, you know, God doesn't have our testicles secrete testosterone once a week, twice a week, thrice a week. It's a daily, you dial pattern. And so I got thinking about that. I said, "Well, let's try to mimic our daily physiological dosing as best as we can." So, and I heard about it. Uh, some friends of mine were doing it. So, every morning now I have not only myself, but I have my patients now um either do it's a very small amount obviously doing daily doses. Currently my regimen now is 20 milligrams which is 0.1 ml uh every morning. So that's 140 milligrams per week. Now that may not seem like a lot but even when I'm on 20 milligrams a week. Now, my trough given that protocol would be have my bloods drawn the morning uh before I did that 20 milligrams. Now, I've done that several times over the past year and even at 140 milligrams per week, 20 milligrams per day, my testosterone is still greater than 1500. In fact, I even tried after I injected 20 milligrams one day, I waited three days where I got my labs drawn. I figured I'd tough out big time. I was still greater than 1500. &gt;&gt; Three days out after only 20 milligrams. So given that, I had I'm recommending all my patients to micro dose. And I may sound like a nuisance, but tell you something. 0.1 ml as you know Stephen is very very small bit it's just a little bit so what I do is after I inject and given that volume you can do that IM or subq it's painless but what I do is every time I inject myself the very first thing I do is put my needle back into my testosterone and rather than hold it because it takes a while it's it's syrupy being a very thin needle, but I don't hold it. I just go ahead and put it in. I have this old hydrogen peroxide bottle that has a great amount. I can put the needle and and testo also right in it. Put it next to my sink while I'm brushing my teeth or washing my face or whatever. And actually two minutes, it's already filled up. So I just take it out, set it for the 0.1 ml, cap it off so it's ready for the next day. My point is, yes, you have to do it more often, but given such a small volume, it doesn't take very long get.1 ml drawn up. That's how we do it now. 20 milligrams a day. I've even had some people use 10 milligrams per day and they're still greater than 1,200 two days out. Remember our body only naturally produces four to seven milligrams per day. So if you take that range four to seven now the low end of that be four time seven 28 milligrams for testosterone per week. The high end would be 49. &gt;&gt; Somewhere between 28 and 49 milligrams per week is what our body produces naturally. So given that 20 milligrams a day is still greater than that. But you get you have that little bit of weight there from the from the esther. But I just feel that micro doing as close to mimicking our own god-given pulses is the best way to go. And given that also I don't have you know everybody's worried about their estrogen. We have still have to deal with that. I don't really measure anymore. But some of my patient come in and worry about their estrogen. I have found that micro doing it doesn't really elevate estrogen enough to where people even are concerned about it. So I don't have to allay their fears about their estrogen causing them symptoms. So [clears throat] I have to worry about that. I know that, but I don't have to worry about so much about SHBG anymore because if I'm mimicking our normal daily pulses, whether a guy's got a low SHBG or a higher SHBG, I don't have to worry about it. I'm just doing daily doses. So, I just I mimic what God has done for us naturally. And given that, I I feel like I'm doing the patient justice. I have I have to worry about supra physsiological doses causing anything unusual. And since I started that over a year ago for all my patients, the patients like it. I've had very few complaints about it. Every feels more dialed in. Um, and so not only are my total testosterones where I like them to be, but my free testosterones are where I think it should be. Somewhere between 20 and 30 nanograms per deciliter, but I feel most of my men feel better if I get their pre-tes be 20 above 25 and sometimes 35 or 40 &gt;&gt; and they're all dialed in at that. So micro doing even though it's a little more cumbersome, it's really not once you get used to it. Um takes less time to do that than brushing your teeth. So I recommend everybody. So all my patients now are micro doing and they're much much happier with it. &gt;&gt; Mhm. But since you're dosing daily, does the esther still matter? Can you use propionate or do you still use cipionate or any cipinate you can use uh propriate and antante. So given the esester and the weight of the esters I just find that I can use any some people even use the sustenon which has three esters I believe and they do you know 20 milligrams of that and they feel wonderful. I've had so few complaints other than, "Oh, doc, I got to do it every day." But once they get used to it, it's so nominal. It's so effortless and it's painfree. &gt;&gt; And all your patients are agreeing to do that daily. Do they also come from twice a week, three times a week? &gt;&gt; They're all in agreement. But if I can if I you know I talk to them about the basic physiology involved with it and how it's replicating God's normal pulses. Um many I haven't gotten them all to convert to it yet because some are happy on their twice a week dosing or um but I've gotten probably 80% of my patients now over time on the daily 20 milligrams or less a micro &gt;&gt; dose. But how can that be mimicking the normal daily rhythm um with these esters? They stay in your blood for a longer time. No. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, they do. And and that's why I'm still working on it. Um that's why when I I did my blood most recently and I checked my my blood levels three days out after 20 milligrams, it was still greater than,500. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; But a bottom line, remember, I'm treating people. So I I say how you feel? I feel great. So I don't care what their numbers are. Um I find the secondary ruthytosis is much more easily managed on these smaller doses. &gt;&gt; And that's another thing too. You know people don't hate don't eat blood. You know we don't we know you don't have to but it's good for you in the community to do so. I I still donate blood about every four months. Are hematocrits lower doing daily dozing? &gt;&gt; Yes. Yes. Now I still have a you know some people still respond some people convert uh some people get a secondary rifytosis no matter what dose you use but I still find out that on these smaller micro doing daily micro dosing the amount of secondary ariththroytosis is greatly minimized. We heard the drawbacks. We heard the many benefits maybe. Um and also yeah, I think uh you just must convince the man to start doing it daily and once they experience it, they're going along with it. &gt;&gt; Every patient that I've talked into converting from once a week, twice a week, thrice a week, a daily, they've all told me that I've gotten great feedback. I've never gotten such more positive feedback from a certain remember I've been doing this for over 40 years. So I've had a lot of feedback on all these protocols, but I've never had in general a greater positive feedback rate on a dosing technique with both clients and outcome than this one. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Awesome. Thanks for sharing. Hey, hey, hey.