 so welcome back to the TRT and hormone optimization YouTube channel and we have back with us as a guest Dr. Jeffrey Rutterbusch, welcome back Jeffrey. Well, thanks so much for having me back, Steven. You're very welcome. So let's talk today about daily micro dosing testosterone for TRT. So you wrote me that you have some new experiences with it that you wanted to share. Well, yes, you know, throughout my practice, it's evolved. It's always evolving. And when you think about it, you know, God doesn't have our testicles, secret testosterone, once a week, twice a week, thrice a week. It's a daily diurnal pattern. And so I got to think about that. I said, well, let's try to mimic our daily physiological dosing as best as we can. So and I heard about it. Some friends of mine were doing it. So every morning now, I have not only myself, but I have my patients now, either do it's a very small amount. I've been doing daily doses. Currently, my regimen now is 20 milligrams, which is 0.1 ml every morning. So that's 140 milligrams per week. Now, that may not seem like a lot, but even when I'm on 20 milligrams a week. Now, my trough, given that protocol would be had my bloods drawn the morning before I did that 20 milligrams. So I've done that several times over the past year. And even at 140 milligrams per week, 20 milligrams per day, my testosterone is still greater than 1500. I even tried after I'd injected 20 milligrams one day, I waited three days where I got my lab drawn. I figured I trough out big time. I was still greater than 1500 three days out after only 20 milligrams. So given that, I had I'm recommending all my patients to micro dose. And I may sound like a nuisance, but tell you something, 0.1 ml, as you know, Stephen, is very, very small bit. It's just a little bit. So what I do is after I inject and given that volume, you can do that I am or sub cube is painless. But what I do is every time I inject myself, the very first thing I do is put my needle back into my testosterone. And rather than hold it because it takes a while. It's this syrupy and a very thin needle, but I don't hold it. I just go ahead and put it in. I have this old hydrogen peroxide bottle that has a great amount. I can put the needle and test it also right in it, put it next to my sink while I'm brushing my teeth or washing my face or whatever. And actually two minutes, it's already filled up. So I just take it out, set it for the point one ml, cap it off. So it's ready for the next day. My point is, yes, you have to do it more often, but given such a small volume, it doesn't take very long. Get point one in it, point one ml drawn up. That's how we do it now. 20 milligrams a day. I've even had some people use 10 milligrams per day. And they're still greater than 1200, two days out. But you remember, our body only naturally produces four to seven milligrams per day. So if you take that range four to seven, now the low end of that would be four times seven, 28 milligrams testosterone per week. The high end would be 49. That way between 28 and 49 milligrams per week is what our body produces naturally. So given that 20 milligrams a day is still greater than that. But you get, you have a little bit of weight there from the ester. But I just feel that micro dosing as close to mimicking our own God given pulses is the best way to go. And given that also, I don't have, you know, everybody's worried about their estrogen. We have to deal with that. I don't even measure anymore. But some of my patients come in to worry about their estrogen. I have found a micro dosing. It doesn't really elevate estrogen enough to where people even are concerned about it. I don't have to allay their fears about their estrogen causing them symptoms. So I have to worry about that. No, I don't have to worry about so much about SABG more. Because if I'm mimicking our normal daily pulses, whether a guy's got a low SABG or a higher SABG, I don't have to worry about it. I'm just doing daily doses. So I just, I mimic what God has done for us naturally. And given that, I feel like I'm doing the patient justice. I have to worry about supra physiological doses causing anything unusual. And since I started that over a year ago for all my patients, the patients like it. I've had very few complaints about it. Everybody feels more dialed in. And so not only am I total testosterone is where I like them to be, but my free testosterone are where I think it should be somewhere between 20 and 30 nanograms per deciliter. But I fit most of my men feel better if I get their free testosterone to be 20 above 25. And sometimes 35 or 40. And they're all dialing at that. So micro dosing, even though it's a little more cumbersome, it's really not once you get used to it. Takes less time to do that and brushing your teeth. So I recommend everybody. So all my patients now are micro dosing and they're much, much happier with it. But since you're dosing daily, does the ester still matter? Can you use propionate or do you still use sipionate? Sipionate, you can use propionate and antate. So given the ester and the weight of the esters, I just find that I can use any, some people even use the sustenant, which has three esters. And they do 20 milligrams of that and they feel wonderful. I've had so few complaints other than, oh, doc, I got to do it every day. But once they get used to it, it's so nominal. It's so effortless. It's pain free. And all your patients are agreeing to do that daily? Do they also come from twice a week? They're all in agreement. But if I can, if I, you know, I talked to them about the basic physiology involved with it, how it's replicated guys, normal pulses. Many, I haven't gotten them all to convert to it yet. Because some are happy on their twice a week dosing. But I've gotten probably 80% of my patients now over time on the daily 20 milligrams or less of micro dose. But how can that be mimicking the normal daily rhythm with these esters? They stay in your blood for a longer time. Yeah, well, they do. And that's why I'm still working on it. That's why when I did my blood most recently, and I checked my blood levels three days out after 20 milligrams, it was still rare than 1500. But a bottom line, remember, I'm treating people. So I say, how you feel? I feel great. So I don't care what their numbers are. I find the secondary ruthocytosis is much more easily managed on these smaller doses. And that's another thing too, you know, people don't hate, don't hate donating blood. You know, we don't, we know you don't have to, but it's good for you in the community to do so. I still donate blood, but every four months. Are hematocrites lower doing daily dosing? Yes. Yes. Now, I still have, you know, some people still respond. Some people, some people get a secondary ruthocytosis, no matter what dose you use. But I still find out that on these smaller micro dose, daily micro dosing, the amount of secondary ruthocytosis is greatly minimized. We heard the drawbacks. We heard the many benefits, maybe. And also, yeah, I think you just must convince the man to start doing it daily. And once they experience it, going along with it. Every patient that I've talked into converting from once a week, twice a week, twice a week, to daily, they've all come, I've gotten great feedback. I've never got such poor positive feedback from a certain, remember, I've been doing this for over 40 years. So I've had a lot of feedback on all these protocols, but I've never had, in general, a greater positive feedback rate on a dosing technique with both clients and outcome than this one. Yeah, awesome. Thanks for sharing.