But, you know, sometimes people will ask me, you know, hey, what do you what are you training for? You know, what are you doing? You know, when you're younger, there might be some sort of an outward goal, like, you know, I just want to I want to get in better shape for the beach or I want to be strong. I want to compete in this, you know, powerlifting or whatever it might be or some sort of a sport. Um, as you get older, you know, some of these interests fall off. You're not as interested. I mean, everyone still wants to look good. Everyone still wants to be strong. Maybe you still want to, you know, do some sport, but it's not not as high a priority. So, I think, you know, as that starts to fade, it's good to focus on the bigger priority of um, you know, how about the sport of life, right? This is going to keep you around longer and healthier and doing the things you want to do. And eventually, I mean, hopefully not. I hope that we're both, you know, some of the lucky ones it doesn't happen to, but at some point, you're going to have some sort of an event, right? I mean, whether that be a, you know, a cardiac event, a cerebral vascular event, or a trauma, an illness, a surgery, and you're going to need to bounce back from that thing. So come into that event strong. People who come into those things strong leave strong. People who come into those things weak sometimes don't leave at all. Right? So if you need a big if you need a motivation to to do this stuff there, you know, there it is. There it is. You know, you you don't want to wake up in your in the in the ICU bed realizing that you should have been building up your, you know, building up your muscle and having that metabolic currency to get you through this, you know, get you through this thing. >> Yeah. >> I think that's a hugely hugely important thing. And I think a lot of people listening to this channel too are probably think, well, you know, that's not me anyway. You know, I'm doing all these things, right? You have some pretty pretty high level folks listening to this that are really into this stuff, but most of them also have family members who aren't or friends who aren't. And if they're looking for a motivation, it's a good way to kind of, you know, kind of try to sell this thing. Be a good ambassador of health and fitness and, you know, pass that along to a loved one so you can spend, you know, spend more time with them. >> Yeah, >> that's a big that's a big thing. I saw um definitely I I saw a ton of that working in the hospitals. It was a shame. People would come in, you could tell who was gonna who this is going to go well for and who it wasn't. >> You'd have people, you know, some some bad thing happens. No one could have seen it coming. You know, the guy's in great shape. Uh you know, bounces back great. He's, you know, discharged home directly from the ICU. And, you know, not, you know, things aren't perfect, but he's going to be okay, right? It's all going to be all right. Someone comes in weak. it's a prolonged hospital stay, they're losing twice as much muscle, they're going to rehab, maybe they're going to a, you know, they're going to a nursing home and that's it. You know, it's it's just could be some life-changing stuff.