What is TRT or testosterone replacement therapy? TRT is the acronym for testosterone replacement therapy, sometimes called hormone replacement therapy or androgen replacement therapy. It is a medical treatment used to treat low testosterone levels that can occur with age or as a result of a medical condition. Your body naturally produces less testosterone as you age; it is a completely natural process that begins in your late 20s or early 30s. This gradual decline in testosterone often doesn't cause any noticeable symptoms, but after a few years, the following symptoms may occur: low libido, fewer spontaneous erections, erectile dysfunction, decreased sperm count and volume, sleep problems, unusual loss of muscle mass and bone density, and unexplained weight gain. The only way to know if you truly have low testosterone levels is to have your levels checked in the blood, along with some other things explained on this channel in several other videos. There are several ways to administer testosterone: gels, injections, creams, patches, nasal spray, oral medications, and pellets. But almost all the experts who have appeared on this channel agree that the best ways are injections or testosterone compound cream for daily use. In the scrotum, you can learn much more about this in other videos we've made previously. TRT is generally lifelong, as it replaces insufficient testosterone production with exogenous testosterone. If TRT is stopped, you will return to your own insufficient testosterone production, and all the symptoms will return. Look for other videos we 've made about the possible side effects and the cost of TRT, which are common questions. But the bottom line is this: before starting TRT, make sure you learn as much as possible about it and find a good provider who can help you on your journey to better health and quality of life. To help you with both, I've created the RT and Hormone Optimization Facebook group. Many experts you see in the videos on this channel are in this Facebook group and can help you find a good clinic and answer any questions you may have. Now do this: Click here to start our playlist that will teach you all the basics about how to start TRT.