What is you or more precisely this 102 Present if translated from English to Russian it will be testosterone replacement therapy That is, for T which is sometimes called hormonal or androgen replacement therapy is a medical treatment used to treat low testosterone levels which can occur with age or as a result of a disease your body naturally produces less testosterone with age This is a completely natural process that can begin in the late 20s or 30s this gradual decline in testosterone levels often does not cause any noticeable symptoms But after a few years the following symptoms may appear for example low sexual treatment less spontaneous dysfunction decreased sperm count or volume sleep problems loss of muscle and bone density also unexplained weight gain the only way to know if you really have low testosterone is to check its level in the blood along with some other things that are explained on this channel in several other videos There are several ways to administer testosterone for example there is helium injections creams patches nasal spray oral medications and tickets but almost all the experts who have been on this channel agree that the most  The best way is still injections and compound testosterone creams for daily use on the scrotum. You can learn more about this from other videos made earlier on this channel. It is usually prescribed for life, since a person replaces insufficient testosterone production with exogenous testosterone. But if, for example, you stop, then in this case, you will return to your own insufficient testosterone production and all the symptoms will, of course, return back. You can also watch some other videos on this channel that are made about possible side effects and the cost of both. By the way, frequently asked questions, but the essence is this. Before you begin, be sure to learn as much as possible about it and find yourself a good specialist who can help you on the path to improving your health and quality of life. To help you with both of these things, the creator of this channel also created a group on Facebook called TRT and sation. Many specialists whom you will see in the videos on this channel are in this group on Facebook and will help and can help you find a good clinic and can also help you with questions. Now do the following. Click on the link above to start your playlist. to learn about topics related to starting testosterone therapy and get answers to all your questions