 how do I explain the benefits or convince my older relative, for example, my father, to start TRT, because it was a friend of mine actually who said my father would really benefit from TRT, but he does not want to start off with that, and he told me, well, I'll just overcome low testosterone naturally. So what to say to that older relative? Yeah, that's a great question. And it's one I come across quite a bit too, right? Because a lot of folks are resistant to taking medication in general. They feel like maybe they're giving up or like, hey, my hormones are failing, I'm less of a man for this kind of thing, I want to try to do it myself, how can I get it back naturally? And I mean, things decline with age is kind of the way it goes. I mean, nature has kind of had its way with us and did what it needs from us. But evolutionary, we're still going to be around for a while. So we're done doing what nature wants us to do, but we might have another 40 years left on this planet. So make the mess that extra time you have left. Everyone needs their own buy-in for this kind of thing. So trying to sell anyone at anything can be tough. So everyone will end up with their own kind of thing that will get them to do what they want to do. For some older guys, it means they want to be able to have more energy to do the things they used to do to either spend time with their grandkids or put it back into their business or so they can travel. But in general, I mean, I think it's one of the big pillars about just staying healthy as you age, right? I mean, you want to stay in good health in general. You want to keep a good amount of muscle mass, you want to keep your body fat down, you want to keep your exercise tolerance up. And testosterone and hormone replacement in general can really aid that. And it's a big help. So it can be a tricky thing. I think it makes sense for everyone to check their levels. Ideally, you would have had some levels checked earlier on in life too. So now you can check them and see how they've actually declined. But yeah, I think a lot of our older relatives could benefit from that kind of talk without a doubt.