How do I explain the benefits or convince my older relative for example my father to start TRT because um it was a friend of mine actually who said my father would really benefit from TRT but uh he does not want to start off with that and he told me well I'll just overcome low testosterone naturally. So what to say to that older relative? Yeah, that's a great question and it's one I come across quite a bit too, right? Because a lot of a lot of folks are resistant to taking medication uh in general. Uh they feel like maybe they're giving up or like, hey, you know, my my hormones are, you know, failing. I'm you know, I'm less of a you know, less of a man for this kind of thing. I want to try to do it myself. How can I get it back naturally? And uh you know, I mean, things things decline with age is kind of the way it goes. I mean, nature has kind of had its way with us and did what it needs from us. And um you know, but uh evolutionary we're still you know, we're still going to be around for a while. So you know, we're we're we're done doing what the what the you know, what nature wants us to do, but we might have another 40 years left on this planet. So make you know, make the best out of that uh you know, that extra time you have left. Um you know, everyone needs your own buyin for this kind of thing. So trying to sell anyone on anything can be can be tough. So everyone everyone will end up with their own kind of thing that will get them to do what they want to do. Um, you know, for some older guys it means they want to be able to have more energy to do the things they used to do. Um, to either spend time with their grandkids or put it back into their, you know, back into their business or so they can travel. Um, but in general, I mean, I think it's it's one of the one of the big pillars about just staying healthy as you age, right? I mean, you don't you want to you want to stay in good in good health in general. You want to keep a good amount of muscle mass. You want to keep your body fat down. You want to keep your exercise tolerance up. um and testosterone and hormone replacement in general can really um really aid that and it's it's a big it can be a big help. So it can be um it can be a tricky thing. Um I think it makes sense for everyone to check their levels. Ideally you would have had some levels checked earlier on in life too. So now you can check them and see you know how they how they've actually declined. But uh yeah I I think it's a lot of our a lot of our older relatives could benefit from that kind of talk without a doubt. Hey, hey, hey.