

=== FILE: #1 LDL Mistake Harming You [PFpdF8hA6lk].txt ===

 I recently spoke with cardiologist Dr. Pradeep Jamnatas about what I think is probably the number one mistake people are making when it comes to their LDL. Check it out. It's not just the LDL. What's most predictive of who's gonna get coronary disease is small dense LDL, damaged LDL. From what I've seen, this is a summation of what I've seen and what I've heard from these experts. Everybody agrees the small LDLs are problematic when too high. Some of them believe that there's a difference, that the small LDLs are more ethyrogenic. Dr. Ron Kraus believes that there is a difference. Several of the lipidologists believe that it's about a wash, that they're roughly equally harmful, the large and the small LDLs. I believe this is a majority opinion in lipidology, but let's not quibble with statistics. Let's just say some people are on one side, some people are on the other. And most of the studies that I've seen, when they account for the number of particles, which is crucial, they find both particles sizes to be potentially harmful. The small LDLs and the large LDLs, if they're too high, both are linked to risk of heart disease. Correct, yeah, absolutely. If you're gonna look at one number that is probably the most predictive of future cardiovascular event rates and anthropogenesis in general, the total number of particles is very important. So you wanna get the total number of particles down. And it's not an easy thing to do, Phan. It's difficult to do that, but I have been able to improve particle sizes. I do that by chasing inflammation and all these risk factors that we really talked about. Are they all athrogenic, large and small? I'm not 100% sure, because there are so many patients that come to me. Okay, so let me tell you, familial hyperlipidemia. They come to me with a LDL of 350, 300, and I do a coronary calcium score and it's zero. And I said, how did he escape all this? But when they develop metabolic disease, now they get heart disease. So the ones who have familial hyperlipidemia will also develop a metabolic disease, some form of metabolic disease, whether it's prediabetes, obesity, fatty liver, gut problems. I find that they are the ones who then now get coronary artery disease and coronary calcification. That's one thing. The second thing is that recent studies, and I don't have the study in front of me, but it's the Scottish study, it showed that when we looked at event rates in cardiac patients, it was small dense LDL that was more predictive, all are predictive, but small dense were the most predictive of who's actually gonna get the adverse outcome. So right now I try to bring the numbers down. I also try to bring the particle sizes bigger by chasing inflammation. So this is important. There are other compounding factors, which we are still learning, because there may be other associations with the small dense LDL versus large ones. There may be other things going on, which we don't know about yet. So it's a growing area of concern. There's a lot of debate amongst people. I'm more pragmatic. I don't chase numbers so much. I chase physiology. I chase abnormalities in your body that shouldn't be there, like the fatty liver, inflammatory markers. Let's get all those down. Let's get rid of the fatty liver. Let's get rid of your inflammation, the markers. I wanna see your interleukin-6 levels coming down. I wanna make sure that your CRPs are coming down. I wanna make sure that your small dense LDL particles become pattern A, and I've been able to do that. Make them go to pattern A. I've been able to do that. And that has been definitely shown to improve outcomes as well. So yeah, there's a lot of debate. Every cardiology conference I go to, it's all about this. Yeah. I think most of those changes are unambiguously beneficial. A lot of these things, reducing visceral fat, reducing inflammation, reducing blood pressure. I mean, these things are clearly advantageous. And I think even if you reduce someone's small dense LDL number, in most people, that's gonna reduce the total number of particles. So it's probably gonna be a net positive. I think this becomes a concern when people take the corollary, when they say, oh, the small dense are really bad. Well, I have sky high APOB, but they're fluffy, so I'm safe. That, the evidence that I've seen is consistently against that. But... That's true. I have to agree with you, because the particle size and the APOB, if you still have a large, so your particle size, maybe let's say 221 angstroms, and you're gonna say, yeah, that's not too bad, but you have a lot of it. That's not good. You are gonna run into problems. So I agree. You gotta look at the whole picture. And don't become myopic just on this area. Only, yeah, absolutely right. Absolutely right. There's virtually 100% agreement because that's also Dr. Ron Krause's position that the small DLs might be nastier particle for particle, but you don't wanna have your large LDL sky high either. So there's agreement on most of it across the specialist community, as far as my experience.

=== FILE: 7 Surprising Foods that Help You Beat CANCER [rEE7yamHeoo].txt ===

 when it comes to cancer, everybody says the same thing. Eat your vegetables, exercise, and don't smoke. And that's great advice. But there's other foods that have impressive evidence behind them that don't get any love. So in this video, we're covering seven surprising foods that help fight cancer. First on our list are nuts. We often think of nuts as hard food. Some people even worry about nuts because they're fatty, they have concentrated calories, so maybe they lead to weight gain. And excess weight is a risk factor for cancer. But nuts are actually linked to less weight gain, possibly because they're satiating and the fat is wrapped in fiber. And we consistently see lower risks of cancer in people who consume more nuts. One meta-analysis found a high consumption of nuts was associated with lower risk of developing cancer. This protective effect was especially seen for cancers of the digestive system, like colorectal cancer and pancreatic cancer. And it was specifically seen for tree nuts. So almonds, walnuts, cashews, not peanuts, which grow underground. And they saw what we call a linear association. So the more nuts consumed, the lower the cancer risk. Up to about 20 grams a day, which is less than the palm of your hand. They've also seen lower risk of dying of cancer with high intake of nuts. Now, cancer is really difficult to study because it takes so long to develop. It takes decades. So we usually don't have randomized trials. So we do two things. We look at this type of link between intake of the food and risk of cancer. And we carefully try to rule out obvious explanations, like differences in smoking, alcohol, BMI, total calories, exercise. And after we take those out of the equation, this relationship between high intake of nuts and lower risk of cancer still remains. And the second thing we do is we try to understand how a certain food might affect cancer risk. So nuts, for example, contain tocopherols, which are powerful antioxidants. And nuts are also good sources of elegytanins, which are converted by your gut bugs, your microbiome into compounds that have anti-inflammatory effect. So these compounds, together with the tocopherols, are thought to play a role in this cancer-protective effect of nuts. Caution, when it comes to nuts, we're talking about the actual nuts with no additives. Not chocolate-covered, not honey-roasted, not an excessive amount of salt, just the nuts unprocessed. Okay, another food with impressive evidence when it comes to fighting cancer is coffee. I know, coffee's not really a food, but who's counting? Coffee gets a really bad rep, maybe because it contains caffeine, we're very suspicious, it's a drug, but we consistently see lower risk of cancer in coffee drinkers, especially liver cancer, where we see up to A-50% lower risk in high coffee drinkers, consuming around five cups of coffee a day, and endometrial cancer, which is a type of cancer of the uterus. In fact, coffee shows one of the strongest lengths between a specific food or a specific item that we consume, and cancer protection. Interestingly, we see a similar relationship for decaf, so it's not the caffeine, it's something else in the coffee. Okay, how would coffee protect against cancer? Well, coffee is a good source of polyphenols, which are potent antioxidants. Coffee also helps reduce insulin resistance and liver fat, so it improves overall liver health. There's some concerns with acrylamide in roasted coffee, but scientists have measured it. The levels are far below the thresholds where it causes any problems. Do pay attention, avoid very hot coffee, because it can raise risk of oral cancer, damage to the cells in the mouth and the throat, and also the additives. When we start adding a boatload of sugar and cream to coffee, that's often when we ruin it. All right, moving on. When it comes to fighting cancer, we hear a lot about green vegetables and some fruits, like berries, but another type of fruit that doesn't get as much attention is citrus, like oranges, tangerines, grapefruit. We see lower risk of stomach cancer with high citrus intake, and lower risk of lung cancer among smokers. One reason citrus is beneficial is their high content of vitamin C, which is a powerful antioxidant, and also their content of carotenoids, which also have antioxidant function. All right, what if I just drink a glass of OJ instead of actually eating the orange? As a general rule, it's better to eat the actual fruit because the juice lacks the fiber, which feeds our microbiome. You also get a lot more of the naked sugars in the juice than we would the fruit. It would take three or four oranges to get the same amount of those sugars as we do in a large cup of orange juice. Now, sometimes this is exaggerated. I've heard people say drinking fruit juice is the same as drinking soda. That's not true at all. The fruit juice still has a lot of vitamins and other nutrients, as long as it's actual fruit juice fresh squeezed, or just 100% fruit juice, without sugar added. Bottom line, drinking a glass of orange juice is much healthier for you than Mountain Dew. It's not even close. But as a general rule, if you can, favor the actual whole unprocessed fruit. Okay, next, we have another food that lights the internet on fire, and that's whole grains. So oats, barley, quinoa, whole grain bread. I've heard people say all kinds of things on the internet. Whole grains are just sugar. They contain no nutrients. They cause diabetes, but the actual scientific evidence tells a very different story. We see a consistently lower risk of colorectal cancer with whole grain intake. This link is strong enough that the American Institute for Cancer Research has stated there is probable evidence that whole grains decrease risk of colorectal cancer, and the evidence is strong enough to justify dietary recommendations. And these organizations are pretty strict. They don't say this for just any food. Whole grains provide viscous fiber, which our microbiome then converts into short chain fatty acids, like butyrate, which feed our gut wall and protect the gut barrier. Short chain fatty acids also reduce inflammation and promote insulin sensitivity. And whole grains are also a good source of resistant starch, which is very powerful in reducing liver fat. Caution with instant oats. They come in different flavors, strawberry flavored, chocolate flavored, and these are processed forms of oats that have been chopped, precooked, and have a lot of refined sugars added. So you wanna favor the actual unprocessed grain, steel cut oats or rolled oats with no additives. Okay, at number five, we have one of the most misunderstood foods when it comes to cancer, and that is soy. Soy contains phytoestrogens. So it sounds like estrogen, and so the belief is it causes breast cancer. But we don't see that. In fact, if anything, we see the opposite. In women diagnosed with breast cancer, those who consume more soy have a lower risk of death and recurrence, the cancer coming back. This is because in breast tissue, phytoestrogens actually do the opposite of mammalian estrogens. They counter the effect of estrogen. In addition to the effect on breast cancer, there's also some suggestive evidence of lower risk of lung cancer in never smokers with soy intake. The dose recommended is about one to two servings a day. Examples of what one serving of soy would look like would be, for example, a cup of soy milk, three ounces of tofu, or half a cup of edamame. And we'll wrap up with two more foods where the evidence isn't quite as strong as some of the others, but there's some suggestive promising evidence there. Tea is linked to lower risk of bladder cancer, especially green tea, and flax seeds show promising early results for breast and prostate cancer, possibly because of their high content of lignans. What about dairy? Is it true that dairy causes cancer? We covered that question and a few more in this previous video, so check it out. I'll see you in there.

=== FILE: Doctor Reacts to Bryan Johnson´s Bloodwork [xNfVUpMGMhg].txt ===

 this is technically in the pre-diabetes range. Wow, that's a reason to take it as a human, not something that would be widely recommended to everyone because Brian Johnson spends millions of dollars every year trying to reverse aging and dodge death. He shared his complete blood work on social media and he called it maybe the best comprehensive biomarkers ever measured, pretty bold, but a number of people had concerns. So we're gonna take a look, see what we can learn. Now, this is 14 pages long of blood work, so we're gonna look at the main things and we're mainly gonna focus on the values that are not normal, but outside of the normal range. So he has some markers on here that he calls speed of aging. I think these are epigenetic clocks, they measure DNA methylation essentially, and the language he has on here is pretty hyperbolic. So these metrics are pretty tricky, they do correlate with disease and death statistically at population level, but we don't really know how reliable these things are. Whether these things actually measure rate of aging, how specific they are is a bit up in the air. So if I start taking a pill like a supplement that affects my methylation machinery so that there's more or less methylation, but my rate of aging hasn't changed, my decline hasn't changed, these clocks will still be misled and it'll look like I'm aging faster or slower, but that might be an artifact. So I think we wanna take these with a grain of salt, there isn't that much validation. The other thing is there's some evidence that weight loss itself makes these clocks look better. And Brian Johnson is very lean for his age, he's what mid to late 40s, maybe early 50s, something like that, very unusual for a westerner to be this lean at that age. That's good of course, but I don't know if all of these expensive machines and expensive drugs that he takes and all these millions of dollars are actually providing any benefit on top of just eating a healthy diet, exercising, being lean and keeping all your basic metrics in the normal range. Now the blood work shows he has very low visceral fat and liver fat, so intra-hypatic fat, which is good. Hemoglobin A1c 5%, which is great. insulin, this is fasting insulin, I'm assuming 2.8, which is extremely low. This all tracks with low body fat and it's good news. Now fasting glucose is 103, which is a little surprising because 103, this is technically in the pre-diabetes range. That's if that's reproducible, right? A bunch of measurements, does he always get similar values? Normal fasting glucose is under 100, that's milligrams per deciliter. So this is one caveat of looking at blood work in one point in time. You wanna look at things in context. Is this a significant change from before? Because if it's a one-off, maybe it's a lab error or something like that. But if this is his normal, then it's interesting. And it's a little surprising because his A1c is very low, and his A1c is at 105% is a great A1c, but then the fasting glucose is a little high. What does that suggest? If these metrics are indeed validated, it would suggest that his fasting glucose is a little higher than normal, but then post-prandially the rest of the time, there isn't that much elevation so that overall the average, which is what A1c represents, is still pretty low. And we should also say for fairness that A1c is a more reliable measure because it's the average of so many measurements. So I would give more weight to the A1c than the fasting glucose, everything else being equal. Okay, that said, why would the fasting glucose be a little high in a guy who's so lean and exercises so much? One question I would have is, is he completely fasted? If you've had any food to eat, then this is a completely normal post-prandial glucose. Another possibility is very intense workouts can cause the release of stress hormones. And those can cause fasting glucose to go up a bit. So that's one possibility, if you worked out a lot in the morning before getting this blood measurement, although cortisol levels are normal. So that lowers that possibility. Normally, if you see elevated fasting glucose, the most common thing in Westerners is excess fat mass, especially around the organs and inside the organs like the liver, the liver insulin resistance leading to this elevation in the morning. It's not necessarily something you ate the day before. It's more the liver overproducing glucose, but his visceral fat and intra-hypatic fat are quite low. So that's unlikely to be the case. Also is famous for taking like a hundred supplements every day like a pile of pills, right? So it's entirely possible that one or more of those supplements or a combination have this effect, raise glucose a bit. Okay, moving on, inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein, tumor necrosis factor, alpha, those are very low, which is great. Good sign, lowers risk of heart disease. And that also goes hand in hand with leanness. Leaner people have lower inflammatory markers, more overweight people tend to have them higher. Blood pressure is great, 11 over seven, completely normal. Calcium score, zero, that's good. You wanna see a zero, although at this relatively young age in your 40s, I'm guessing he's mid to late 40s. Yeah, it says he's, I think, 48, he's exactly my age. So yeah, in this age, it's normal to have a calcium score of zero, even in Western populations, most people in their 40s still have a calcium score of zero, even though heart disease is a number one cause of death. So that means that a number of people that have a calcium score of zero go on to have heart disease problems and even die of it. So at these relatively young ages, it's good. It's better than if the calcium score was higher, but we take that with a grain of salt. It's not a get out of jail free card. Let's put it that way. It does not mean that in the future, you're not gonna have problems or that the calcium score is not gonna go up later in life. They even have a name for that, they call it conversion. Someone has a calcium score of zero in their 30s or 40s, and then later in life, it becomes non-zero. Okay, lipid panel, total cholesterol, 100 LDL, 35. Okay, these are super low. He's probably on a statin. He's probably on lipid lowering medication, almost for sure. He will be 52, yeah. He's on some lipid lowering meds. Some people have genetic variants where they have these very low lipids, but it's unusual. Triglycerides 42, very low, good. LPA normal, that's good. Okay, he does write down here. He's under rapatha, so that's evalocumab. It's a PCSK9 inhibitor, so it is a lipid lowering medication. Same general end result as statins. The mechanism of action is a little different, but at the end of the day, very similar to statin. He says he used to be on Zeta, that's a Zetamide. It's another class of these lipid lowering drugs, but now he's on rapatha, so he switched. Okay, that explains the very low lipids. The rapatha does, it's slamming his APOB and LDL. Yeah, rapatha, unlike statins, usually does not raise glucose levels. Statins can have that effect in some people. Others don't see that, but rapatha usually does not. It has been reported a very small percentage of people, so it's not impossible that his slightly elevated, fasting glucose is being caused by the evalocumab, but I think it's unlikely. Okay, this is a little controversial, right? So we have a healthy individual, normal LPA, blood pressure low, very lean. I don't know exactly what his APOB was prior to all of this, but if it's 50 now, 52, it probably wasn't sky high. It probably was 80 or 90, which is a pretty decent APOB for a healthy individual. So he had a quite low risk of heart disease, and yet he's on lipid lowering meds. It's a bit controversial. So is this a good idea? I think it's a valid personal choice. It's not something that would be widely recommended to everyone because medication has some drawbacks. One is cost, obviously. Two potential side effects. Some people, a percentage of people on each med, any med are gonna experience side effects. So you wouldn't recommend medication for everyone with these metrics in his position because you're gonna create some side effects, and it's gonna have a monetary cost associated when the benefit is extremely small because the risk is very small to begin with. So the reduction there is marginal. Now here, obviously, he doesn't care about the cost. It's not a problem for him. And assuming he doesn't have side effects, then it's a personal choice to go for it. The difference in the APOB from 80 or 90 to 52 with all the other metrics, so under control, means that you go from a very low risk of heart disease to an even lower, it's a small absolute difference. But I guess if you're trying to slam everything near zero, it's a valid personal approach. This basically means with a very low APOB of 50, low blood pressure, low body fat, low LPA, means his risk is so low that either there's no plaque growing or if there is plaque growing, it's so slow, it's not gonna be a problem in his lifetime. He's gonna die of something else before heart disease gets him. Now the two main questions that people ask about these lipid lowering meds like statins and these other classes are hormones, does that impair your ability to produce hormones and brain function, cognitive function? Hormones are not a problem for most people because your glands can produce their own cholesterol. So lowering cholesterol in the serum is not an issue. If the glands that produce hormones need some extra cholesterol, for some reason, they can get it from HDL particles in the blood. So this is usually not a problem. And in fact, his hormones, testosterone, thyroid hormones, all in the normal range. The brain also produces its own cholesterol, doesn't get it in any meaningful amount from the blood. So reducing serum levels of cholesterol is not a problem for the brain. Now some of these drugs can penetrate into the brain and lower cholesterol production there. But the evidence we have doesn't point to any cognitive deficit. If anything, they suggest a benefit. We have more studies for statins than for these other drugs, but in general, we actually see, if anything, lower risk of dementia and Alzheimer's in people on statins versus people without in long-term studies that are observational. So some caveats, but if anything, that's the direction of the signal. For Rapata, this evalocumab is on, we have trials, randomized trials, specifically looking at cognitive ability. Now, they're at shorter duration. I think it's a couple of years. They don't see a deficit. So at least over that time scale, there doesn't seem to be a problem. Okay, moving on. His vitamin D is super high. He's taking supplements, I'm guessing, especially because I think he's on a plant-based diet, either vegan or close to that. And so he's almost certainly taking a supplement. And finally, this ferritin is actually low, a little surprising. Ferritin reflects iron storage. I wonder if that's from his diet. He's not getting enough iron. Oh, it says here he is supplementing iron and he had lowered the dose and now is gonna increase given this ferritin level. Yeah, iron is something you can get plenty from the diet. Even vegetarians and vegans, if you plant it according, lots of vegetable sources of iron. Now, it is a different type of iron. In animal foods, you have both heme and non-heme. In plants, you only have non-heme. And the absorption of non-heme is more regulated. The absorption of heme iron is more passive. So sometimes you absorb a little bit less iron from the plant sources. There are tricks to get around that, like vitamin C, having some vitamin C, having some lemon on legumes or whatever plant source of iron you're eating or having some orange for dessert. That boosts non-heme iron absorption a lot actually. Also, coffee and tea, they contain some compounds like tannins that inhibit non-heme iron absorption. So having the coffee and the tea away from meals like before or after, like an hour apart from your main meals is another trick to optimize non-heme iron absorption. Now, there is a lot of tests here that are unnecessary that don't give us that much information clinically. Ox LDL, this doesn't tell us much when you already have a basic lipid panel and kind of lipid to the lipoprotein measurements. A-boy one, that's another one that doesn't tell us that much because it's not really causal for anything. Anyway, he's got a bunch of tests here that tell us very little. So these are kind of a waste of money, but again, I guess he doesn't care. I don't know how much he's paying for all these blood tests. Can't imagine it's cheap. Oh, and he's on an SGLT2 inhibitor, Giardians. So this is a diabetes drug. It's usually given to people with diabetes and it tends to lower blood sugar levels, which is interesting because this fasting glucose is actually a little high. He says the reason he takes that is there's good evidence as a longevity intervention and caloric restriction my medic from animal experimentation. Wow, that's a reason to take it as a human. Yeah, I haven't seen any compelling evidence that this is beneficial in a healthy individual without glucose issues. I don't know exactly why he's taking it. This rationale that he typed on there seems a little weak. So overall, a lot of this stuff, and this is my general impression of him and his programs and all this adventure he's on, all this stuff is random, very experimental. Some things have strong bases like controlling blood pressure, body fat, exercising a lot, healthy diet, obviously those things are important. A lot of the other stuff, and honestly, the more expensive stuff, all the stuff that costs millions, the expensive machines and the hundreds of supplements, a lot of the stuff doesn't have compelling evidence behind it and some of the prescription drugs he's taking also, is that gonna provide any benefit? Who knows? In general, is he gonna be any better off because of all the fancy, expensive stuff than if he just had the healthy lifestyle, healthy diet, exercise, good quality sleep. I haven't seen any compelling evidence of that. We recently covered everything we know about lifespan extending drugs and all the hype, including the metformin and the repamycin and all that. So check it out this video right here, and I'll see you in there.

=== FILE: Eat THIS to Lower Inflammation (Don't Waste Your Time) [ddr51Tc3AEg].txt ===

 these are the best foods to reduce inflammation based on science. One food component with a powerful anti-inflammatory effect is tocopherol, also known as vitamin E. Tocopherols are potent antioxidants, so they neutralize free radicals that can trigger inflammation. One rich source of tocopherol are nuts, like cashews, almonds, walnuts, pistachios are also good sources, and different types of seeds have a lot of tocopherols as well. One meta-analysis of randomized control trials found that chia seeds help lower the inflammatory marker C-reactive protein. Another anti-inflammatory powerhouse is called oleocanthal. Oleocanthal is a fascinating compound. It's mainly formed when olives are crushed, and it's responsible for that peppery sensation when you eat really high quality olive oil that pungency in the back of your throat. That's oleocanthal, and oleocanthal is not present in refined olive oil. The refining process gets rid of it. Oleocanthal works in our body exactly like ibuprofen. It's nature's ibuprofen. It inhibits enzymes that produce prostaglandins, which are pro-inflammatory molecules. Those are exactly the same enzymes targeted by ibuprofen. In a meta-analysis of randomized control trials, olive oil helped reduce inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein and interleukin-6. Now, as we're going through this list of foods, remember, there's no such thing as a superfood. That's not really a scientific concept. Everything works in the context of a whole dietary pattern, but it's true that some foods have better evidence than others. Okay, another great nutrient to fight inflammation is potassium. Potassium improves nitric oxide signaling, and it also enhances endothelial function. It's also effective in toning down immune cell hyperactivity, and the result is that the level of some inflammatory markers like interleukin-8 is lowered. Good source of potassium include sweet potatoes, some fruits like bananas, and avocados, and tomatoes. Spinach has a lot of potassium as well. Lentils and beans are also good sources. A systematic review found improvement in inflammatory markers with consumption of pulses, like beans and lentils. In a 2015 randomized control trial, found a diet emphasizing lentils, chickpeas, bees, and beans for three days a week lowered high sensitivity C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha in overweight diabetic patients. And speaking of overweight, one thing that's important to understand is that fat tissue itself is pro-inflammatory. And that's because fat cells adipocytes secrete inflammatory mediators like adipocrines. So people with obesity tend to have higher inflammatory markers, and when we lose weight, our inflammatory markers come down consistently. So that's another way to reduce inflammation. Weight loss, irrespective of the specific foods. Okay, another crucial player when it comes to fighting inflammation is our microbiome. The bugs in our gut produce compounds like butyrate, which strengthen the gut barrier, and also promote anti-inflammatory cells. One way to boost our microbiome is to consume fermented probiotic foods. One man analysis of randomized control trials found that daily intake of probiotic yogurt for more than eight weeks reduced some inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein in overweight individuals. Other inflammatory markers like interleukin-6 and TNF alpha were not significantly changed. Another probiotic is kefir, which is a form of fermented milk. And kefir has also shown some anti-inflammatory effect. In one trial, patients with inflammatory bowel, given kefir, showed a decrease in inflammatory markers. They also experienced reduced bloating, which is typical in inflammatory bowel, and they reported a subjective improvement in their well-being. These results are really interesting because it's a common idea on social media that dairy is inflammatory. And if you have a specific condition like an allergy or some forms of intolerance, sure. Otherwise, we don't see that. And particularly with fermented dairy, we even see the opposite, an anti-inflammatory effect. And this is a pattern. Foods that influencers insist on social media are inflammatory almost never are when you look at the actual scientific evidence. Other common ones are all grains are inflammatory and seed oils are inflammatory, and none of it is factual. Inflammatory has really become a buzzword on social media to scare people away from eating a certain food. Okay, another way to harness the power of our microbiome is to feed it. So this is where prebiotics come in. Prebiotics are foods that feed the microbiome and oats and barley are two examples that lead to the production of butyrate by our gut bugs. Rye is another example, and legumes, which you already talked about, also have this function. Another powerful anti-inflammatory player are resolvents. Resolvents are lipid mediators that regulate the function of inflammatory cells like neutrophils and macrophages. And resolvents also promote the resolution of inflammation. They end it. And protectants are another important player. They help the body repair damaged tissue. They clear away inflammatory debris, and they also help the body fight infections. Protectants and resolvents are made in our body from omega-3s like EPA and DHA. Good sources of these fats include oily fish like salmon, sardines, anchovies. Seaweed is also a good source. In fact, that's where the fish get it. And also seafood like mussels or shrimp. A 2021 randomized clinical trial published in Italy found that a diet rich in oily fish improved subclinical inflammation, including lowering the inflammatory markers, high sensitivity, seroactive protein, IL-6 and IL-17. Okay, we're going to look at some great natural supplements in a second. But one last nutrient that's really potent at fighting inflammation are catechins. Catechins are a type of flavonoid with potent antioxidant effect. And catechins can be found in green tea leaves, cherries, cocoa has catechins as well, and berries are another good source. And the way catechins fight inflammation is by blocking key inflammatory pathways like NF-Kappa B, that normally inhibit antioxidant enzymes and stimulate inflammatory cytokines. Several trials have shown that eating berries helps lower some inflammatory markers like tumor necrosis factor alpha. And finally, if you need an extra boost, here's a couple of natural supplements that show a really promising effect. Curcumin supplements have been shown in randomized trials to help lower inflammation. Garlic supplements like AGE, aged garlic extract have been shown in randomized trial to lower inflammatory markers as well, with the best doses being between 2 and 2.4 grams a day of AGE. And some of the strongest results, interestingly, are for something called propolis supplements. So propolis is a resin produced by honey bees, and meta-analyses of trials have shown substantial reductions of interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, and tumor necrosis factor alpha with propolis supplements. And inflammation contributes to plaque buildup in our arteries. And we covered the best foods to shrink plaque size in this previous video, so check it out, and I'll see you in there.

=== FILE: How to Lower Your ApoB FAST & Naturally (Full Program) [m-mQOPWkE1g].txt ===

 your APOB is one of the most important factors determining your risk of heart disease, and you can lower your APOB fast in a matter of weeks, if you know what to do. So today we're going over the best foods demonstrated scientifically to help you lower your APOB, and at the end of the video, I wanna share a workout and a supplement that will help you slam that APOB even faster. The APOB test measures the number of particles in your blood that can get into the artery wall and cause plaque. It's a better test than the regular LDL that most people get in a basic lipid panel, the LDL cholesterol measure, and it's a better predictor of your risk of heart disease. And according to large genetic studies, a high APOB doesn't just raise risk of heart disease, it also shortens lifespan, and it may even raise your risk of diabetes. So lowering your APOB is one of the best health investments you could possibly make. So the first tool in our arsenal are phytosterols. Phytosterols inhibit the absorption of cholesterol in the intestine, and the result is that the liver is gonna try to get cholesterol from another source, specifically APOB particles in circulation. So it's gonna pull those from the blood and the level comes down. A meta analysis of randomized control trials showed that adding phytosterols to a diet can lower APOB significantly as quickly as three weeks. The lowest amount I've seen work is half a gram, 0.5 grams of phytosterols daily, although most trials are looking at about two grams a day, phytosterols to get this result. Sources of phytosterols include tree nuts, like pistachios or almonds. Most seeds are good sources of phytosterols as well, so sesame seeds are one of the highest. Wheat germ is another good source. Some vegetable oils with rice bran oil being the most concentrated source of phytosterols in foods. Soybean and other legumes like lentils and beans also contain some and unprocessed whole grains like brown rice or wild rice. Now for people with a specific condition called cytosterolemia, you need to be careful with phytosterols because you don't process them normally. Fortunately, this is rare. Okay, what's a good APOB that you wanna shoot for? We have a whole video on that, but basically if you have low risk of heart disease, you want your APOB under 90 milligrams per deciliter. For people at high risk, we recommend under 70 and for people at very high risk under 60. Now, another factor that plays a role is the type of protein. One randomized trial gave participants a protein shake made from protein powder, either from casein or black eyed peas. The casein shake lowered APOB by 2% while the legume shake lowered it by 14%. So legumes might affect APOB both through their content of phytosterols and the type of protein they contain. Another important factor is fat type. In fact, this is probably the number one factor to affect your APOB. Healthy fats like nuts or seeds cause your liver to pull more APOB particles from the blood. And so the APOB level comes down. Other examples of healthy fats that also have a similar effect include fatty fish like salmon or sardines, seaweed, extra virgin olive oils, avocados and flax seeds. Okay, another tool to help you lower APOB is fiber, but not just any fiber. Viscous fiber is particularly powerful. Viscous fiber is the type of fiber that feeds your microbiome, your gut bugs. They chomp up that viscous fiber and they transform it into short chain fatty acids like butyrate or propionate or acetate. And those can then be absorbed by our intestine and they can have a profound metabolic impact including optimizing lipids and lipoproteins. Good sources of viscous fiber include some fruits like apples or berries, citrus fruits. So oranges, tangerines, grapefruit, some vegetables like okra or eggplants are some of the highest in viscous fiber. Oats and barley and psyllium husk which is a concentrated form of fiber is another good option. Okay, we wanna integrate all of these great foods into our diet, we wanna feature them, but we also wanna avoid the worst foods when it comes to APOB. And one of the worst offenders is purified refined fructose. As found for example in artificial sugary drinks like soda. Consuming pure refined fructose in large amounts like drinking a lot of soda can cause your liver to become insulin resistant. And the result is it produces more of these APOB particles and pumps them into circulation. And so the level goes up and the risk of heart disease goes up. We also wanna be cautious with large amounts of solid fats. So things like coconut oil, palm oil, butter, lard, talo, very fatty cuts of meat. These foods powerfully raise your APOB. So favoring some of the sources of fat, we talked about earlier, like replacing some of the fatty meats with fatty fish, for example, and favoring some lean meats like poultry, for example, replacing some of the coconut or palm oil or butter with olive oil or avocados can powerfully lower your APOB in a matter of weeks. Now, how big of a drop in APOB you're gonna see depends on a couple of things. How high is your APOB in the first place? And genetics as always, right? But it's pretty common for people to see 20%, sometimes 30%, sometimes more of a drop in APOB, just with these dietary swaps. Now, there's many ways to put together all these different building blocks, depending on dietary preference. The most validated dietary pattern in research is what we call the traditional Mediterranean diet. That doesn't mean whatever people are eating nowadays in the Mediterranean region, but it's a diet that features some fatty fish and seafood, olive oil as the main added fat. And abundant sources of fiber like vegetables, fruits, legumes, and whole grains. But there are other options as well, like dash, vegetarian, the Nordic diet, or a Paleo diet. All of those can be put together in a way that integrates all of these principles we talked about. Okay, another really important factor is body fat. So maintaining ideal body weight or maintaining low body fat. Randomized trials where overweight participants lose a significant amount of body weight, consistently show reductions in ApoB of up to 20%. Losing body fat, both reduces the amount of ApoB particles that get produced and increases the clearance, the removal of particles from circulation. So it's a double threat. It's really powerful. Now, exercise has also been shown to help reduce ApoB. In a randomized control trial out of Norway, participants practiced aerobic exercise like fast walking, jogging, or circuit training three days a week, with each session lasting about an hour. And exercise lowered ApoB even after the accounted for body size, like waist circumference, right? So exercise helps you reduce ApoB because it helps you lose some weight. But there's also an additional independent effect. Another fascinating aspect of this trial was that their LDL, the basic lipid panel measure, LDL cholesterol did not go down significantly with exercise. But ApoB did. So if you were just going by your LDL, as many people do, you might get discouraged. I'm busting my buns doing all this exercise, and my LDL isn't budging, but your ApoB is. And that's a much more reliable metric of heart disease risk. Now, in this trial, they only did cardio, but it's recommended that you also try to get in some resistance training. So body weight exercises or lifting some weights at least a couple of times a week, that helps maintain muscle mass, which is really important metabolically. And finally, let's talk about a supplement. Omega-3 supplements have been shown to reduce ApoB. Omega-3 is mainly work by reducing the production of very large ApoB particles, what we call VLDLs. Now, one issue with Omega-3 supplements is that at very high dose, like several grams a day, they raise risk of arrhythmias, like atrial fibrillation. So it's better to stay at lower doses if you can. One randomized trial saw a 20% reduction in ApoB with 1.2 grams a day of Omega-3s. So you may not need very high doses. I would start lower on one gram a day or even less, and see if that gives you that nudge you want. And one last supplement, berberine, also has some interesting, very promising evidence behind it. 500 milligrams a day taken twice. So one gram total has been shown to lower ApoB by 10 to 15%. At the end of the day, we worry about ApoB because it increases plaque in our arteries. If you already have plaque, we have a video covering the best diatrics to reduce plaque size. So I'll link that right here, check it out, and I'll see you in there.

=== FILE: I´m on the Epstein List (Full Reveal) [Fp-m0QOz2N8].txt ===

 I just found out my name pops up in the Epstein database, not once, but twice. So here's everything I know about it, how it ended up in there, full disclosure. For a week now, the Epstein scandal has been everywhere on social media, and rightly so. Even I talked about it on Monday, I touched on the Peter Atia case, and I was messaging with some doctor friends, and they were looking themselves up and saying, thank God I'm not in there, almost light-hearted, because you don't expect to be in a repository like that if you're not a celebrity or super rich, but I put my name in and I hit search, and I was smiling like, yeah right, and two hits pop up, not emails, two PDFs, and it's two copies of the same thing, same document, and you can click and open it and read the whole thing, and it's a research proposal that I wrote in 2013 when I was a postdoctoral scholar in a neurobiology research institute in Los Angeles, and I remember typing this, I remember making these figures, this scientific document is sitting in the Epstein database on the website of the Department of Justice of the United States, so this blew my mind for a second, how did this thing end up in there? I didn't even know who the guy was 13 years ago, before he became famous for all the wrong reasons, and in fact there's no email hits with my name, there's nothing else, on the whole database, just this PDF of my work, kind of dangling in there, how is that possible? My first thought was somebody probably just sent this to him because they thought it was interesting, it was fascinating research, the neurobiology of emotions and feelings, I think a lot of people would find that interesting, so I thought maybe somebody just sent this to him like, hey look at this cool research they're doing over in LA, super creepy that they sent it to this guy, but I thought maybe that was it, but then I kept digging more and I figured it out, the director of the institute I worked at, Dr. Domazio, he would pitch the ongoing research to rich people all the time, that's a common source of funding in universities and research centers in the US, donations from rich people, and so Jeffrey Epstein was one of the people he pitched to, all the emails documenting this are public records now, they're all made public in this database, I went through it, you can see the emails to the assistant saying we have this interesting research going on at the center, Mr. Epstein might be interested in supporting some of this, and then scheduling a meeting to go over all the research, there's even a couple of emails directly with Jeffrey Epstein confirming the time of the meeting, and this meeting took place in February of 2013, and one of his trips the director was in New York City, he came over to Epstein's, they went over the research that was being carried out at the center, including the research I was involved in, that's how my research proposal ends up in the now infamous Jeffrey Epstein inbox, and at the end of the meeting Epstein ends up deciding not to fund the research, thank god in retrospect, best rejection in human history, and that project ended up being funded through a research grant, and it was successful, and we published it, I knew all of that part obviously, I did not know this backstory, this creepy historical footnote that Jeffrey Epstein had an option to fund some of our research and passed on it, fortunately, and I just spoke to the director on the phone, and we talked about it, went over the whole story, I asked him a bunch of questions, I was really curious, who wouldn't be, and I can tell you exactly what he said, it's not a secret, he said he first met Jeffrey Epstein at a dinner party that he threw for famous scientists, university professors, a Nobel laureate, that kind of thing, he said Epstein was a celebrity collector, he wanted to know and be in touch with anyone who had power or influence in any sphere, so he threw this dinner party for famous scientists, the director and his wife attended, that's where they first met Epstein, years later there was the pitch meeting, that's how he was able to arrange it, because he had met him at the dinner, and he said those were the only two times he saw him, and he said they realized who he was, his crimes and all that, when the big expose came out, the big article, I think it was 2017 or 2018, I think it was, and it became general knowledge, and they realized the bullet they had dodged, and I imagine nowadays they probably do extensive background searches on everybody at the institute before scheduling meetings or considering donors, and I know this video is not about nutrition or science interpretation per se, but it would feel weird to find this and not tell anybody, we always talk about let's look at facts even if they're uncomfortable, right, well time to walk the walk, especially after the other day I mentioned Atiyah, now I find out my name's in there and I pretend I didn't see it, I feel like a massive hypocrite, so just out with it, no secrets, what I know, you know.

=== FILE: Peter Attia´s Epstein Connection & our Health Decisions [Uc8LeMnXYs8].txt ===

 social media was absolutely a blaze this weekend with the Epstein files and all the leaks and revelations and one person that was specifically identified was popular doctor and podcaster, Dr. Peter Etia. Peter publishes a lot of content on medicine and health and nutrition and I think this whole episode contains some interesting lessons about how we look at internet influencers, medfluencers and what role they play in our lives. Now I'm not going to exploit any of the salacious side of it all. Apparently there were many messages between the two of them, Peter Etia and Jeffrey Epstein and Peter was advising Epstein on some medical or health issues which by itself would not be that big a problem but the issue is that the tone of the communication between them was not of medical or scientific nature. In fact there were crude sexual jokes and innuendo about Epstein's activities on the island and Epstein's overall lifestyle. All of this would have been minor news in a small corner of the internet until recently but Etia's profile has risen significantly in the last couple years and in fact I believe just last week he was hired as a medical correspondent for CBS News so this became a political issue for a lot of people and it became quite mainstream and made a lot of headlines. Now there's no evidence that Etia was directly involved in any of the illicit activities and in fact there's an email where Etia denounces Epstein's lifestyle as outrageous and Etia just released today a response to the whole thing where he reiterates that he was not involved in the criminal activities but it's the tone of the communication that has shocked people because Epstein was a known convicted sex offender and Etia knew about it he says as much in his response he even asked Epstein about it and so the question that's being asked is how much did Etia know and was there a medical duty to report third parties that were being endangered that was neglected because in many places there is an obligation to report that supersedes patient confidentiality and that would be not just an ethical but a legal issue. In his response Etia says he didn't witness anything illegal and that he was incredibly naive and had poor judgment. He also says that when he wrote that Epstein led an outrageous life and that Etia couldn't tell anyone about it he wasn't referring to Epstein's crimes he was referring to dinners and power and influence in the sphere that surrounded Epstein. What I want to focus on and I think what pertains to the topics that we normally talk about and worries me is I saw a number of people renouncing not just Etia himself and his platforms which I find understandable but also any of his scientific views and any information they had gathered from him over the years. I saw several people saying I can't believe I ever listened to his podcast or believed him on this and the other or followed his health advice on this topic or that topic and this worries me this mixing of the individual in their conduct and their personal judgment with their scientific views and the information that the person broadcasts. I listened to many of Peter T's podcast episodes particularly on heart disease and lipids many years ago before I was even making videos for YouTube and I was at the edge of my seat I took extensive notes on those episodes because of the quality of the guests he brought on and the clarity of the information and the accuracy of that information once I checked it in many other medical sources at the time and over the years. So I learned immensely from those podcasts indirectly through a platform that Peter Etia organized and my content over the years has been influenced directly or indirectly from that learning from all those guests that he brought on some of the leading experts in heart health in the world and a few years ago I even made a video listing sources that I consider reliable in health and nutrition related topics and I listed Peter Etia as one of those sources specifically because of these episodes on heart disease and lipids and no matter how bad or not this situation turns out to be how bad his judgment may be and certainly seems to be based on the email exchanges that are publicly available that doesn't change any of the scientific information that I obtained from his guests and from his platforms back in the day and it doesn't change my health decisions. I think what we're seeing in this renouncing not just of the individual but all scientific information he conveyed is the flip side of choosing an influencer on the internet not based on the accuracy of the information he conveys but rather on the packaging on how the person looks or how the person behaves or how confident the person seems or their credentials in a word for the wrong reasons. Peter has said many things over the years that were not just scientifically correct but important concepts that he communicated to the public that are absolutely essential to understand if we're going to optimize our cardiovascular health and minimize risk of disease and death. He's also said many things he had many weird takes on nutrition and health that I completely disagree with that are not backed by evidence things about dietary cholesterol or changes in glucose after eating or nutrition takes that I've heard from him here and there that are just bizarre that you'd hear from someone with substantial knowledge in medicine and some of them are a simple google search to see that they're not factual so it's crucial to make this distinction not idolize or worship someone on the internet and also not to blindly trust the person especially a stranger on social media whom you've never met it's incredibly dangerous to choose health advice based on vibes some of the best scientists on this planet some of the most knowledgeable people when it comes to medicine and health and nutrition have zero charisma zero speaking skills have no platform you've never heard from them and conversely some of the most popular figures in health and wellness are complete charlatans who don't know the first thing about medicine or nutrition and spread dangerous misinformation to millions of people on a daily basis and my concern is that a lot of people who are renouncing not just the individual but also every piece of information they received from that source likely got on board for the wrong reasons in the first place having to do with confidence conveyed or credentials or the look and as now they jump ship they're going to look for somebody else that pushes that said those same buttons and are likely to fall for hucksters who seem convincing but will probably endanger their health in the long run so for your own self-defense not for the sake of peter a teo or anything i might think it's not about us on this side it's about your own health and self-preservation it's absolutely crucial it's a crucial life skill to be able to separate how cool someone seems or how confident someone seems or even how moral and decent someone appears to be from the accuracy of their information are their views supported by scientific evidence your survival depends on your ability to make that distinction

=== FILE: RFK´s Food Pyramid - More Revelations & Drama [IGBdGGMl7gs].txt ===

 RFK Junior's dietary guidelines dropped just last week and there's been a lot of drama. And as a number of people have dug deeper into the guidelines and the supporting documentation, there's been a couple of revelations and developments. Dr. Kevin Klatt, who is a registered dietician and PhD in nutrition and just a rock star, one of the most knowledgeable people I know when it comes to nutrition, he found that the guidelines exaggerate the concerns around vegan diets. So the guidelines have a list of nutrients of concern for vegans, including some things that are very surprising like magnesium. Most sources of magnesium are plant foods. And it turns out that this came from an analysis where they took a typical vegetarian diet and they removed all the dairy and all the eggs and any fortified soy foods like soy milk, but they replaced those with nothing. They just left that calorie gap. So the result, of course, was a diet low in calories and where a number of nutrients didn't meet ideal levels. But this isn't that meaningful. This is not how people eat. They don't remove a bunch of foods and eat nothing instead. They'll eat more of something else. Now, in their defense, one of the members of the committee that RFK Junior put together, Dr. Tai Beale, when this was pointed out to him on social media, he acknowledged that this is not good, that this methodology will overestimate nutrient concerns and even ask for a correction. I think that takes guts publicly admitting an error and going to your own team and saying, guys, we should correct this. A lot of people when errors are pointed out, they pretend nothing happened or they double down, unfortunately, is common. So I respect that. Of course, as somebody else said, we're not talking about a blog post or a podcast here. These are the official national dietary guidelines for 300 million Americans. So this is supposed to have a certain level of quality and be triple checked and quadruple checked by people with a lot of background in nutrition before it goes out. So it's unfortunate that it comes out with an error like that. But we'll see if they issue a correction. The other development is an exchange between the agency that RFK Junior directs, HHS, Health and Human Services, and Professor Christopher Gardner from Stanford. Gardner was a member of the original advisory committee that was in place when RFK Junior came in and RFK dismissed that entire committee and he was very dismissive of the bulk of their work, a long report that they wrote. So there's some history here. But leaving aside all of that and feelings, Gardner wrote a critique of the guidelines, the good and the bad, very similar to what most scientists have said, very similar also to what I said in the video from last week and the broad strokes. So there's nothing in that critique that I find surprising. And HHS, the agency that RFK directs, responded to that critique on social media through one of their official accounts. This is their response, micro nutrients found in butter and tallow, and then a long list of nutrients. Now this doesn't engage with anything Gardner said in his critique. He didn't talk about nutrient content of butter or tallow. He didn't even directly talk about the health effects of butter or tallow. But just taking a look at this tweet, at face value, and again, Dr. Kevin Klatt, he's all over this video, as he pointed out, this list is wildly inaccurate, because butter and tallow are very poor sources of most of the nutrients on that list. So a serving of butter, which is a tablespoon, has almost no vitamin D, vitamin E, choline, selenium, zinc, or iron. And these five nutrients in the middle here are just a repeat. They just paste to them twice. So other than vitamin A, everything else is not found in any meaningful amount in butter. For tallow, it's even worse, because tallow is also poor in vitamin A. So they got all of it wrong for tallow. Now this is not how we determine health effects of foods anyway, just looking at lists of nutrients that they contain. This is a common marketing strategy. You see the food industry doing this a lot. Hey, our processed cereal contains all of these nutrients. Our candy bar contains all of these nutrients. Fruit loops and Twinkies contain lots of micronutrients and minerals and vitamins. And that doesn't tell us anything about the health effect. But it's outlandish that health and human services, supposedly the number one authority on health in the land, is tweeting out just completely inaccurate information to thousands of people. And it's something you can fact check with 30 seconds on Google. And even more ironic, their social media account that tweeted that out, the profile says, fighting back against fake news. Yeah, might want to start with your own content. We really don't need these stunts. A healthy diet can have some meat and dairy. We don't need this. This just looks awful. And it adds to a general perception that we have people in charge of health with no scientific understanding who think and who talk like influencers, not scientists. Here's my full review of the dietary guidelines, the good, the surprises, and the not so good. Check it out. And I'll meet you in there.

=== FILE: Saturated Fat Misinformation Spread by MAHA [LYgZjfaWMgI].txt ===

 the FDA commissioner, Dr. Marty McCary, he heads the Food and Drug Administration in the United States. He was appointed by RFK Junior last year. He just gave an interview on TV where he talks about saturated fats and heart disease. We're gonna take a look, it's a very short video. I think it's a great example of how not to communicate science to the public. And guys, we're gonna try to stick to the facts. I asked it, you help out. We're not gonna politicize this. It's incredibly dangerous to politicize science. Facts are facts, regardless of which political party we like. Well, sure, we wanna promote healthy fats, but we were encouraging as a medical field, people for decades to eat egg white only eggs. And if you think about that recommendation, it was really based on the flawed medical dogma of Dr. Ansel Keys in the 1960s, and it became Medical Group Think. Three large studies, gigantic studies, including two of the largest database studies in the history of medicine, tried to prove the association between saturated fat intake and heart disease, and all three failed to show that. Okay, we have dozens of studies on saturated fat and heart disease, not three. And even if we just look at randomized control trials on this question, there's at least 14 of those, not three. And when we put the evidence together, what we call a meta analysis, and we do that rigorously, we see a lower risk of heart disease events, like heart attacks or strokes, when saturated fat is moderated. So that's the big picture in this field. He doesn't mention any of that. He wants to focus on specific studies. Okay, let's see. Including the famous Minnesota heart study that showed those who had the low fat diet in the randomized trial had higher rates of heart attacks. Okay, there was no low fat group in Minnesota. One group was 39% fat, the other was 38% fat. Identical, there's no low fat group. This isn't some footnote. This is on top of the first page of the study. It's the summary of the paper. So he's on TV bringing up a study that he's not familiar with. Maybe he's never read it, because the whole point of the study is to test diets. He doesn't know what diets they tested. Okay, he also said they had higher rates of heart attacks. Same place, top of the first page, they found no differences in cardiovascular events, cardiovascular deaths, or total mortality. Now, it's important to understand this trial, the Minnesota trial, was interrupted abruptly, long before it was scheduled to end. So they planned to run it for three to four years, because it takes a while for things like heart attacks or deaths to develop in a crew. It doesn't happen overnight. But they lost almost all of their participants. More than 80% of participants were lost. 75% lost in the first year alone. So the trial was aborted. And even during that short follow up, the participants were in and out of the trial. During that period, they were on and off the diets. So it's not surprising that they didn't find a significant difference between the groups that's totally expected. And there's more issues with this trial. For example, there's a question with trans fats. This trial took place in the 60s and 70s. A number of foods had industrial trans fats, margarines, and other processed foods. At the time, this wasn't well understood. So it's very possible that one of the groups was eating more trans fats than the other. Nobody knows for sure, because there's no quantification. Now much later in the 2010s, they published some additional data from notebooks and from a thesis, including some autopsy report for a small subset of participants, about one to 2% of the total folks in the trial. Trial started out with more than 9,000 people. Most of those didn't die during the trial. Of those who died, about 500 deaths. We don't have autopsy reports for most. So they got autopsy reports. They recovered them for about 1.6% of the participants in the trial. And what they found was in the intervention group, 31 participants had at least one heart attack detected in the autopsy. So this could have been a silent heart attack. And in the control group, it was 16 individuals. And these folks for whom they recovered the autopsy data, they had been in the trial for less than a year by the time they died. So interesting observation, but is this even representative of the total sample? Because they didn't see a difference in cardiovascular events like heart attacks when overall, when they looked at all the participants, not just this tiny sample, was this caused by the oils they were given in the trial? Was it caused by trans fats in the trial? Was it even caused by foods from the trial? Because they've been in the trial for less than a year. Maybe it's a fluke. Maybe these heart attacks happened before the trial started, nobody knows for sure. My point is, you handpick one trial with massive issues, you ignore the majority of the evidence in this field that goes in the opposite direction. Even within this trial, you handpick one observation in a tiny percentage of participants. You ignore most of what the trial reported. You ignore that overall, there was no difference in cardiovascular events. And based on this, you go on this rant that all scientists are wrong, it's all dogma and groupthink. My opinion, this is a perfect example of how not to communicate science, this confuses the public, and this harms people. And that's because when you eradicate fat, you replace it with refined carbohydrates, which increase general body inflammation. You don't have to. You can eat unprocessed carbohydrates, but also nobody's saying that you have to eradicate fats. Nobody in professional nutrition nowadays is saying that you have to eat a low-fat diet. We moved past that many years ago, decades ago. These guys are stuck in the past. This whole endeavor is a strawman argument, right? It's like the fixation with the pyramid. The pyramid was discontinued 15 years ago. They're still going on and on about the pyramid, the pyramid. Healthy fats are recommended almost universally by professionals in nutrition, and they've been recommended for many years. Extra virgin olive oil, fatty fish, seafood, nuts and seeds, avocados. And the main irony with this is this whole narrative of saturated fat is misunderstood, was unfairly demonized. They don't even believe that. They just put out national dietary guidelines that they wrote where they uphold the same limit we've always had, under 10% of calories from saturated fat. Here he is in the press conference just last week announcing the guidelines. How much saturated fats American should be consuming? I know I've already taken that, since he wrote a book. Like the old dogma in the 1960s, when Eisenhower had his heart attack and Ansel Key said it was the saturated fat, that's never been substantiated. And so that flawed research has become dogma over the years. And eventually the conversation was sidelined. In this new guidance, we are telling young people, kids, schools, you don't need to tiptoe around fat and dairy. You don't need to push low fat milk to kids. And we are maintaining the 10% of calories as saturated fat in the guidance. Does that make any sense to you? It's all flawed research, it's all dogma, it's never been substantiated, but we're upholding the same limit on saturated fat we've always had. What if you believe that that cap is not based on good science, then why are you recommending it to 300 million people? Just because the guys before did? Just because every country on the planet does? Isn't that the definition of dogma and groupthink and being a sheep? Exactly the thing they like to accuse other people of doing. And if the science does support that cap, as you said in your official document, why are you telling people otherwise in a press conference? Completely reckless, right? Completely irresponsible, sending people to an early grave. The truth is this narrative is very popular. People wanna hear that butter is fine or even good for you, all scientists are wrong, it's unfairly demonized. It's a very popular rhetoric. But in an official document, there's a lot more accountability. So there they don't play these games. They go with the balance of evidence. And what most scientists are telling them, it's a good idea, right? So in the future, if there's a lawsuit, they can say, well, we said under 10% of the document, right? Well, at the same time, dog whistling to the public, that it's all dogma, don't worry about it, just eat all the butter you want. Do you see how dishonest that is? To say one thing and do another in an official document. This is how politicians behave. It's got nothing to do with science or facts. If you find this topic of saturated fat confusing, we have a video covering all of the evidence and practical takeaways. So I'll link that right here, check it out. I'll see you in there.

=== FILE: THIS Popular Advice to Lose Visceral Fat is WRONG!! [tmE1HTfqM1c].txt ===

 the most dangerous type of fat is not the fat we can pinch, it's the fat inside the belly, around our organs and inside the liver and the pancreas. More and more people are aware of this and there's more content out there which is good, but some mistakes are being made. One thing I see recommended a lot out there is drink green tea to lose visceral fat, and that's because green tea is high in catechins, which are compounds with anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effect. And yes, catechins can help with weight loss and specifically losing visceral fat. It's been shown in randomized control trials, but there's a huge catch, it depends on the amount. These trials people are pointing to use special formulations of green tea and drinks with very high concentrations of catechins, much higher than most commercially available green teas. In fact, these studies often use regular green tea or a drink that has the amount of catechins normally present in run of the mill green teas. They use that as the control. They sometimes even call it the placebo, right? So the control group and they don't see an effect on visceral fat with that. And then in comparison in the intervention group, they use a drink with concentrated catechins and that's where they see the effect, reduction in visceral fat. So all of these videos and content telling people to drink green tea to lose visceral fat, it's well intentioned, but in practice, you're not gonna see the effect with the vast majority of green teas out there. Okay, how do we get around it? Well, one solution is just drink more green tea, larger volume, right, to get more catechins. In practice with most commercially available green teas, this can mean drinking a couple of liters of green tea a day to get enough catechins to get the effect. So most people are not gonna do that consistently. It's kind of a drag. Also the content of catechins depends on the quality of the tea, the quality of the leaf that is used and also on the preparation steps. Because the thing is green tea is an infusion, right? Most teas are infusions. You put the leaf in water and whatever leaches out of the leaf is what you're gonna drink. So if we use a very high quality tea, very high quality leaves with higher concentration of catechins and hotter water and longer steeping time, yeah, you can increase the concentration of catechins in the tea up to a point. But it's always hard to know how much you're really getting out of it. Another option are green tea extracts. So there's a number of supplements commercially available and these are more concentrated in catechins because they're extracting them from the leaf and concentrating them. There's some evidence that these extracts, these supplements do help with liver health and liver fat, although we need larger trials to be really sure. Another option for people who prefer more natural strategies and this might be the best option is matcha. So matcha is a green powder that you can make tea with. But the thing is matcha uses the whole leaf. Everything that's in the leaf is extracted. And so the concentration of catechins or any phytonutrients in the leaf is gonna be much higher in matcha than in regular green tea products where it's an infusion. So it's just whatever seeps out of the leaf in water. Obviously this is gonna depend on the quality of the matcha, how it's done and the quality of the leaves that they use. And most companies don't report the content of catechins but in general, higher quality matcha has a higher concentration of catechins. They call it ceremonial grade and these are usually Japanese brands of matcha that are higher quality and they're shipped from Japan often. It's not the cheapest product but it's one option. I've seen it around $50 to $100 for a tin that lasts you probably about a month, give or take if you're doing it daily. So might not break the bank by itself but it's also not the cheapest thing out there. We also dug around and we found two companies that sell matcha products that actually report the content of catechins. And by the way, I have no relationship with these companies. So this is one company called Matcha Therapy and they guarantee a minimum content of a specific catechin called EGCG. It's basically the most active kind of catechin in green teas and in matcha and it's thought to be behind most of the benefits of these products. So they have a EGCG 30 plus and that means they guarantee at least 30 milligrams of EGCG per gram of the matcha powder and then a 60 plus, a 90 plus and a 130 plus increasing concentration of EGCG. So which one of these is best and are they enough? Is that enough EGCG in there? I went over every randomized trial that I could find looking at matcha products and liver fat or visceral fat loss. Treatments with low doses of the product amounting to about 15 milligrams of EGCG which is roughly in the ballpark of green teas out there most kind of run of the mill green teas, those don't work. So you don't see a reduction in liver fat or visceral fat. Then around 50 milligrams and this is daily intake 50 milligrams of EGCG. You start seeing results. You start seeing a reduction in visceral fat or liver fat. One trial compared 50 milligrams to 84 milligrams of EGCG. Both worked, both reduced liver fat and the 84 milligram treatment seemed a little stronger kind of stronger reduction. So you might be better off closer to a hundred than closer to 50, although both seem to give you some effect. Does it increase even further? What happens at even higher doses? There's a pooled analysis that look at six randomized trials pooled together and most of the trials were either around a hundred or 200 milligrams a day of EGCG. And there was no obvious difference in the effect. They seem to be about equivalent. So it seems like around a hundred milligrams a day of EGCG ballpark gives you all you need. So looking at this matcha therapy range of products and based on what I've seen from the trials, the educated guess would be that the 30 plus might be too low, 60 plus, you should start seeing results and the 90 or 130 should give you a little stronger results. Is there a difference between 90 and 130? No idea. We don't have granular enough trials to confidently say. So it's whatever the person prefers. Now there's one issue with this brand. I looked at the website, they shipped to all kinds of European countries and Canada, but for some reason they don't ship to the US. And I know we have a lot of viewers in the US. So we wanted to find another brand that would serve that market as well. So we found this other brand called Got Matcha and it seems to ship both to the US and Europe and other places too, I believe. And so looking at their website, the range that they report, it seems about in the range of the other product of the matcha therapy, about 60 to 90 milligrams of EGCG per gram of this product. And so one to two grams of that daily in water, in a tea should give you the desired effect based on the evidence we have. So these are the only two brands I've ever seen that measure EGCG and report it. If you are aware of others, by all means, share in the comments for people to see. Okay, couple of very important points. You don't wanna go overboard with these products. There is some evidence that EGCG doses that are very high over 800 milligrams a day can cause some problems, can cause some liver toxicity. So I would stay well under that 100-ish and we're talking about milligrams of EGCG, the specific adicine in the powder. We're not talking about the total weight of powder that you're gonna consume, where you can consume a gram or two, that's not an issue per se, it's the amount of EGCG that you don't wanna go crazy. Also caffeine improves the bioavailability of EGCG so you can get more out of it if you consume it together with some caffeine. Now green tea and matcha already include some caffeine because that's present in the green tea leaf, right? Unless it's a green tea product that's been decaffeinated. And this is also good to know for people who have hypersensitivity to caffeine, who don't do well, who get jittery, matcha and green tea, could trigger some of those issues for some people. There's one food component that has been shown to cut liver fat in half. And we covered that in a recent video. I'll link it right here, check it out, and I'll see you in there.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.565690Z ===
