 Lo-carnitcccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccc and prevent a heart attack. so in today's video we're covering the best foods to reduce plaque in your arteries according to science and in the end of the video i want to touch on something that is often misunderstood but a lot of people think is unhealthy that might actually be good for your heart. so there are five main causes of heart disease. apob, blood pressure, glucose metabolism disorders, inflammation and smoking. glucose metabolism includes diabetes of course but it also includes insulin resistance and visceral fat which is the worst type of fat. it's the fat that is inside our organs like our liver and our pancreas and it plays an important role in causing insulin resistance and diabetes. and then smoking is obvious but smoking is not diet related so we leave smoking to the side for now. basically we're looking for foods that help us improve these four. here's the first item on our list. we know that when it comes to heart disease a key nutrient are omega-3 fats like epa and dha. epa and dha are anti-inflammatory and that's because in our body they get converted to other molecules like protectins and resolvins. they almost have superhero names and these molecules then help shut down inflammation in our body. these healthy omega-3s are also great to reduce triglycerides and they can also help bring down blood pressure. so at number 10 on our list fatty fish like salmon, sardines, anchovies or mackerel. levels of heavy metals are especially high in larger more predatory fish like swordfish or shark. fish like salmon are shorter lived and they're lower on the food chain so they have much lower levels of metals like mercury. so eating them a couple times a week once or twice a week doesn't pose a concern and is actually beneficial. one study found that people consume more fatty fish have a lower risk of heart attacks but this is not seen with lean fish so there's an important difference there. fish is not all the same. okay next item on the list is also a healthy fat. we've come a long way since the days when there was a concern and a fear around eating fat in general. we now understand there's a lot more information that there are healthy fats and then there are other fats that are not so healthy. so another food consistently linked to lower risk of heart disease is olive oil. it's a staple of the mediterranean diet and olive oil has been shown in randomized trials to help reduce liver fat which as we said is a major cause of insulin resistance and in fact a meta-analysis of randomized trials showed that extra virgin olive oil helps reduce insulin resistance. you do want to splurge and get extra virgin olive oil because studies have shown there is a benefit compared to more refined versions. for blood pressure for example it's more potent at bringing it down. so that's number nine on our list. extra virgin olive oil, high in polyphenols, high in healthy monounsaturated fats. now olive oil is not magic. pouring olive oil on some junk food doesn't make it healthy all of a sudden and calories from olive oil still count. so you still want to eat a moderate amount of oil. oil is very calorie dense so you don't want to go overboard and douse olive oil on everything. it could add up calorie wise and you could put on weight and that beats the purpose. all right the next item on our list is a great source of soluble fiber which is the type of fiber that feeds our microbiome and supports our gut health. steel cut oats or barley are great sources of a soluble fiber called beta-glucan. rolled oats are fine too. what you want to avoid are the more processed, the instant oats that have a lot of flavors and a lot of sugar added. that beats the purpose of the whole grain. oatmeal is a fantastic replacement for a lot of common breakfasts that are not so healthy like sugary cereals, the cocoa puffs and the lucky charms or pancakes that are often made from refined grains and then have additives on top like syrup or bacon which is a processed red meat. oatmeal from steel cut oats or rolled oats is much much kinder on your arteries and it actually goes really well with number two on our list which we'll look at in a second. randomized trials have shown that the beta-glucan in oats helps lower apoB, fasting insulin and blood pressure in people with hypertension. on to number seven on our list and this is going to surprise a lot of people. number seven is cocoa. it's very high in antioxidants called flavanols. a meta-analysis of randomized trials found that cocoa reduces LDL cholesterol, fasting glucose and blood pressure. and in a double-blind randomized control trial, people given a cocoa extract had a lower risk of dying of cardiovascular causes than people given a placebo. unfortunately most of the chocolate that's commercialized out there is milk chocolate or candy bars that are pretty low in cocoa. so what you want to shoot for is the cocoa powder itself or dark chocolate and the higher the content of cocoa the better. 70% are up, ideally unsweetened, no sugar added. also you want these products to not be dutch processed. so sometimes they'll process cocoa with alkali to make it less bitter and that's called dutch processing. the problem is that it destroys a lot of these flavanols. so it beats the purpose of eating dark chocolate. so you want to go for brands that are not dutch processed. now there's also concern with heavy metals in chocolate and we have a whole video going over it in detail. most of the brands in the market are not a problem but there are some that could be a concern so i'll link that in the end. we go over it brand by brand. number six on our list and i think this will surprise people probably the most is kefir. kefir is a drink made of fermented milk and it's very high in probiotics. fermented foods are actually fantastic for our gut health and beyond. so kefir introduces healthy bacteria like bifidobacterium introduces them to your gut and that leads to the production of short chain fatty acids that can have profound metabolic effects on your body. kefir helps reduce fasting insulin, insulin resistance and it may also help quiet down inflammation when taken consistently over time. okay what about other fermented dairy products like yogurt? it also shows some benefits in research although less consistent. kefir shows more impressive results. one reason for that is that a lot of the yogurts sold out there have so much sugar added that you're basically eating candy at that point. also kefir retains more probiotics, more of these living microorganisms. so in general kefir is preferable especially compared to most of the sugary yogurts out there. number five on the list, we've all heard that vegetables are good for your heart but there's a hundred vegetables out there. so one recent randomized trial found that cruciferous vegetables helped lower blood pressure and triglycerides compared to starchy vegetables. broccoli, brussel sprouts, kale, arugula, collard greens, etc. one way they help with blood pressure is through nitrates and nitrates are converted in our body into nitric oxide which helps relax our blood vessels. number four on our list are legumes, chickpeas, black beans, lentils, edamame and other forms of soy, kidney beans, mung beans, navy beans and many others. legumes are a great source of protein, they're high in soluble fiber, they're high in potassium and they also have a pretty low glycemic index. meta-analyses of randomized trials have shown legumes help improve cholesterol, fasting blood sugar, insulin levels, inflammation and they also bring down blood pressure in overweight individuals. all right, number three on our list, we're getting close to the top, number three is garlic. garlic contains a compound called allicin that helps tone down cholesterol production and platelet aggregation and it also improves endothelial function. in fact, garlic can lower blood pressure, LDL, fasting blood glucose, hemoglobin A1c and inflammation. and a cohort study found that people who consume the most allium vegetables like garlic or onion had a 64% lower risk of cardiovascular disease and 26% less hypertension. now one tip is the allicin actually gets produced in the garlic after you crush it but there's an enzyme that makes it and that gets destroyed by heat. so if you crush the garlic and cook it right after, you don't get much allicin in there. so you want to crush, let it rest for about 10 minutes, then it's okay to cook. that way you maximize the allicin in there and the benefits. all right, number two on our list are berries. berries are jam-packed, pun intended, with anthocyanins which are compounds with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effect and studies have found people who consume the most anthocyanins have lower risk of developing heart disease or dying of cardiovascular causes. berries are also very low GI, glycemic index, so they're good even for people who have glucose issues. a meta-analysis of randomized trials found that berries lowered fasting glucose, hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure and some inflammatory markers like tnf-alpha. and number one on our list are nuts, another source of healthy fats. so you see a pattern. they're also very high in phytosterols and both of those compounds help lower apob. we're talking about nuts themselves without chocolate on top or honey roasted or excessive amounts of salt. nuts also help reduce insulin resistance, fasting insulin and in people with diabetes they help bring down glucose levels and hemoglobin A1c. they also improve endothelial function and they can help lower blood pressure, especially pistachios and cashews. absolute health superstars. okay, one last thing i want to mention that isn't quite a food but is really interesting as far as heart health is coffee. studies show that coffee drinkers consistently have lower risks of heart disease and stroke. coffee does contain compounds called diterpenes that can raise your cholesterol. so careful with unfiltered coffee and french press but otherwise coffee that is filtered or instant coffee generally looks positive for heart health. i did promise to link that video about chocolate and heavy metals i didn't forget so here it is. check it out and i'll see you in there.