 We're all trying to cut back on sugar, but all of these sweeteners get so confusing. There's aspartame and azazol-sulfame, there's stevia and saccharin, there's xylitol and mannitol and erythritol and allulose and sucralose, I mean it's a zoo. So in this video we're going to go over the main kinds of low-calorie sweeteners, we're going to look at their health effects with scientific evidence, and in the end we're going to rank them from the safest to the ones best avoided. Now before we get into it, just a quick note that I don't sell any of these sweeteners, I don't have a deal with any of these companies, I don't care financially, we're just looking at the evidence. So there are three main types of low calorie sweeteners. We got our artificial sweeteners, that includes things like aspartame, acesulfame potassium, saccharin, sucralose. Then we got a second category of natural plant derived sweeteners and there are three main ones stevia, monk fruit and allulose. And then we got our sugar alcohols or polyols as they're also known. And these are all the sweeteners that end in all. So the sorbitol and the mannitol, erythritol and the xylitol and more. So we're going to go over them one by one starting with the artificial sweeteners. As the name indicates, they're produced synthetically and they have zero or almost zero calories. One exception is aspartame, which actually has the same number of calories as sugar per gram. However, because aspartame is much sweeter than sugar, like hundreds of times, they use such a tiny amount of aspartame to sweeten things that it's essentially zero calories per serving. One thing to be aware of is that many of these sweeteners, precisely because they're so powerful, they're so sweet, they are used in such small amount in these sachets, these little packets that we use to sweeten our coffee, that they add other molecules. Sometimes other sweeteners or other molecules in there that are called fillers, basically for volume because it wouldn't be practical to pour, you know, one grain of the sweetener into your coffee. But sometimes these other molecules can have calories as well. So we'll come back to this. Some of the common uses of these artificial sweeteners, diet sodas. So diet coke famously includes aspartame, sugar-free yogurt also often uses these, protein powders sometimes when they're sweetened, and chewing gum. They're also used as tabletop sweeteners to add to things. Splenda includes sucralose, and sweet and low contains saccharin. And surprisingly, they've been around for a long time, even though they're artificially produced. Saccharin has been around for over a century. So we actually have a lot of safety data on them. Now, some concerns have been raised with this class of sweeteners. There's a link between aspartame and cancer that has made all the news you've probably heard about it. It's not considered a very strong link. Basically consists of some rat studies and some epidemiological associations, and neither of which were really consistent panned out in other studies. It hasn't been completely disproven, completely ruled out, so I wouldn't say it's completely out. But it's unlikely at normally consumed doses that aspartame causes cancer. Also, another limitation, aspartame is not suitable for people with a specific genetic condition called phenylketonuria. They can't process it normally. And finally, some questions have been raised about the effect of this class of sweeteners on the microbiome and on glucose metabolism. Some studies suggest they might affect insulin sensitivity. There was a famous study about 10 years ago that suggested that these sweeteners impacted the microbiome and that had an effect on glucose tolerance. Although this was later tested in a double-blind placebo trial that was larger even, and none of this panned out. Bottom line, this class of sweeteners is probably safe to consume in the normal doses, although several questions have been raised. Next, we've got our natural plant-derived sweeteners. Stevia comes from a plant leaf, the stevia plant. Monk fruit, as the name indicates, comes from a fruit that grows in China. And allulose is naturally present in some foods like raisins or maple syrup. Although the allulose that's commercialized is usually made from corn. The fructose in corn is converted using an enzyme into allulose. Stevia and monk fruit have zero calories, allulose is low calorie. It's about a tenth of the calories of sugar. Stevia is often used as a tabletop sweetener to add to foods, also in some diet sodas, and in protein powders sometimes as well. Monk fruit is very popular in low-carb products, and allulose is often used in baked goods, ice cream, and candy. Now, these compounds have been around forever, obviously since they're naturally occurring. The stevia leaf and the monk fruit have been consumed by humans for centuries in their purified form as we consume it now. Stevia has been around for a few decades. It's the oldest of the three. The others are a little more recent, especially allulose, which is the most recent of the three. There's a couple longer randomized trials looking at stevia, one year, two years in that range. For the other two, the trials are usually much shorter in the order of months. In terms of their effect on glucose, they cause no glucose spike and no insulin spike either, and allulose even blunts glucose spikes. So you give someone a meal, they have a certain glucose spike. You give someone that same meal plus allulose, they actually have a lower glucose spike. So this is a very interesting proposition for diabetics, for example. The other two have no effect. They don't cause glucose spikes, they don't blunt either, just neutral. They all help with weight loss when replacing sugar. I mean, pretty much all of these sweeteners do. And for stevia, there's also some evidence in reducing blood pressure, especially in people who have it high, who have hypertension. There hasn't been a ton of concerns raised with this class of sweeteners. There are side effects in some people, like anything ever. The most common is GI upset in some people with a high intake. And this is more common in people who already have a gut condition, like IBS or SIBO. It's also more common with allulose than the other two. Stevia and monk fruit usually don't cause GI issues themselves, although the bulking agents can. So if you're using a sachet with stevia and something else, that could happen. So this goes back to our conversation about the fillers or the bulking agents. Monk fruit products usually contain some filler, unless it specifies that it's purified monk fruit. Stevia products often have bulking agents as well, especially the sachets. If it's the drops, it's usually just stevia. And if it says pure stevia extract, then it has no bulking agents. And allulose products usually have no bulking agents. So that's that second category. And finally, we have our sugar alcohols or our polyols. They're present naturally in small amounts in some plants, although the commercial versions are produced industrially. Erythritol has almost no calories, whereas the others, the xylitol and the sorbitol, have about half the calories of sugar. These sweeteners are often used in sugar-free gums and candies. In low-carb products they're popular as well. In some dental products like toothpaste. And they can also be used as bulking agents, as we said. They all cause a lower glucose and insulin spike than sugar. Erythritol actually causes no spike at all. It looks like water. Whereas xylitol and maltitol do cause a significant spike, but much lower than sugar. Another advantage of polyols is dental hygiene. That's why they're contained in some dental products. They help prevent caries. Erythritol probably has the strongest effect. There's a double-blind randomized control trial where they gave children erythritol candy for three years. And they developed less caries than children given xylitol or sorbitol candy. As far as side effect, by far the most common is GI upset. So diarrhea, bloating gas, especially with a high dose of intake of polyols. Now this varies a lot person to person. Some people report intense symptoms. Some feel nothing. Again, more common if the person already has some gut condition. And it's more commonly seen with sorbitol and less so with erythritol. This happens because these sweeteners remain in the intestine. They're poorly absorbed so they can attract water to the gut and that can cause bloating and diarrhea. Finally, there are some studies suggesting a link between erythritol and xylitol and heart disease and coagulation. It's not a very strong link. We have a whole video going over that in detail, but the question mark is there. So bottom line, most of the evidence is positive for all types of sweeteners with some lingering questions. If I had to rank them, I'd put the sugar alcohols in third place. They're good for dental health. They're widely used. They're probably safe for most people. But the GI side effects are more common with these sweeteners. And there's this question of the heart disease lingering. So I'd rank them slightly below the others. If you're going to start using polyols, one tip is to start with a low dose and then ramp it up slowly. In second place, I would put the artificial sweeteners, the aspartame, the sucralose. Again, they're probably safe, but there are some lingering questions about insulin resistance, microbiome, a weak link to cancer for aspartame and that phenylketonuria issue. And at number one, I would put the plant derived natural sweeteners, not because they're natural, but because they look safe. Most of the evidence looks good. And there's been the least number of questions raised within this category of the plant derived sweeteners. If I have to rank them, I would put monk fruit third, allulose second because of that perk of blunting the glucose spikes for diabetics. The only question with allulose is some uncertainty regarding long term use. We don't have that much data on it in the long run. And I would give stevia a slight edge at number one. It contains zero calories. It has the longest randomized trials out of these three. It doesn't spike glucose or insulin, might reduce blood pressure in people with hypertension, and side effects are unusual when used by itself, like in the drops, for example. So there's very little downside documented for stevia. It's a good first choice for most people. Now, the WHO discourages most or all of these sweeteners because of possible links to chronic diseases like obesity and diabetes and cancer. I disagree with the view of the WHO and I explained exactly why I went over the evidence in this previous video. So check it out and I'll see you in there.