 natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, Bagh stato, natives, The oatmeal group not only had higher levels of insulin, cortisol, adrenaline, which is the stress hormone. So eating oatmeal literally was like being chased by a tiger in your body. Your body didn't know the difference. It actually made these kids hungrier. And they ate 81% more food than the omelet group. Remember, they ate the same calories of omelet, oatmeal, or steelcoats. The steelcoats was better, but they still ate 50% more food than the omelet group. So when you have starch or sugar in the morning, whether it's a muffin, a bagel, oatmeal, French toast, pancakes, fruit smoothie, whatever people are eating. It's the worst thing you could do. You want to start your day with protein and fat. Okay, so that sounds pretty alarming, right? So we'll take a look at the actual study that he's talking about here. And we'll compare to the claims made in the video. And buckle up, because I've been doing this for a couple of years now, and this one still stunned me. So the video makes a couple statements. There is a profound study that compared three breakfasts, oatmeal, steelcoats, and omelet with the exact same calories. The oatmeal breakfast raised insulin levels, cortisol, and adrenaline, which is a stress hormone. And he said eating oatmeal was like being chased by a tiger. Your body doesn't know the difference. Oatmeal made them hungrier. They ate 81% more than the omelet group. The steelcoats was better, but they still ate 50% more than the omelet. And he concluded from that that when you start your day with starch or sugar, that's the worst thing you can do. You want to start your day by eating protein and fat. So I took a look at the actual study. Okay, let's go through it. This is a study published in 1999. They looked at 12 obese teenage boys. And the whole goal of the study was to look at meals with different glycemic index. Glycemic index is how much a food or meal spikes your blood sugar. So they basically gave him three meals. One with a high glycemic index, intermediate, and low on three different days. And for each meal, they did blood work. And they also kept them around the lab for a number of hours and told them that if they felt hungry, they could ask for more food. And they basically measured how much they ate. So basically, they were testing how satiating each meal was. Okay, so what were the actual meals? This is the obvious number one question. So right as I started scanning the article in the methods, it explains the high glycemic index meal, which contained instant oats, and the medium GI meal, which contained the steel cut oats. They had some refined sugar added to them. Glucose or fructose, depending on the group. But the third meal, the meal with a low glycemic index, the meal that contains the eggs, did not have added sugar. So that jumped out immediately. And you know what's funny? The viewer who sent me this video, he hadn't looked at the study, but he asked me in the message, did they add a bunch of sugar to the oats or how did they get this result? So basically, without any scientific training, just by being around this type of content, he predicted one of the issues. So when people say this is all so confusing, everybody says something different, experts can't agree. Actually, a smart guy who's not a scientist guessed what the issue was or one of the issues, as we'll see. So this stuff can actually be pretty transparent. Okay, on the same page, and this is right at the beginning of the study, second page, there's a big table. Table one shows all the composition of the meals, shows this very clearly as well, the addition of these refined sugars. So the high glycemic index meal was instant oats, milk, half and half cream, dextrose. So this is a form of glucose, it's a purified sugar, a tiny bit of saccharin, which is a sweetener, and water. And the milk was treated with lactase, which is an enzyme that breaks down the natural sugars in milk. So they try to make the sugars even simpler to increase the glycemic index even more. The medium glycemic index meal was similar, except they used steel-cut oats instead of instant oats, so less processed. And they used fructose instead of glucose, and they had no saccharin, otherwise identical. And then the low glycemic index group, the group that the video calls the omelet. It had one egg, some egg whites, no sugar added, some low-fat cheese, and then half a kilo of fruits and vegetables. 200 grams of spinach, some tomato, 185 grams of grapefruit, and 115 grams of apple slices. So this meal actually turns out to be mostly made up of fruits and vegetables. The vast majority of the volume and the majority of the calories in this meal are from fruits and vegetables. Egg makes up less than a third of the calories of this meal, even when we include the egg whites. This meal also ends up being higher fiber than the other two, because of all these fruits and vegetables that they added. And fiber also helps bring down the glycemic index. So when we actually take a look at the study, it's not a study of eggs versus oats at all. It's a study of three complex meals with lots of components, looking at glycemic index, where the high glycemic index meal had a more processed form of oats, added sugar, and an enzyme that breaks down the natural sugars in milk to make it even simpler. And the low glycemic index meal has a boatload of fiber-containing foods added to it. Okay, now let's look at the results of the study. Blood sugar and insulin levels were higher after the higher glycemic index meals by design, by definition. That's what the meals were designed to do. Every component of these diets is designed for that. The added refined sugars, the lactase treatment, the lower fiber content, and the lower protein content of that high glycemic index meal, all of those components raise glycemic index. By the way, glucose levels going up after a meal is completely normal, completely physiological. After we eat carbohydrates, there's more carbohydrate in circulation. After we eat fats, there's more fats in circulation. None of that is harmful. What's harmful is an abnormal glucose response, like we see, for example, in diabetics. Okay, next, the adrenaline. Adrenaline was highest on the high glycemic index meal with the added sugar and the instant oats. And this phenomenon has been shown before. It's common after ingestion of sugar, especially in children. And it's related to the sugar rush when kids go haywire after eating some sugar. Interestingly, adrenaline was a little higher on the quote-unquote omelet group with the eggs and the vegetables compared to the steel-cut oats. The video didn't mention that. As for the idea that eating oatmeal was like being chased by a tiger and your body doesn't know the difference, they've actually measured adrenaline spikes in situations like bungee jumping, for example. And it spikes much higher than any of the meals in the study, including the high glycemic index meal, like three to four times higher. They haven't tested someone being chased by a tiger in the lab to know how much adrenaline spikes. As far as I know, that hasn't been done. It's safe to assume the adrenaline would be higher than if you're bungee jumping. So yes, your body can tell the difference between a meal, any meal, even if it's a meal with added sugars and more processed and being chased by a deadly predator. And finally, let's look at the main result, the overall intake, right? How satiating the meals were and how much people ended up eating. And by the way, I posted all of this breakdown on social media a day or two ago, and I tagged Dr. Hyman. I asked him to comment or if he had any disagreement to point it out. He didn't respond to that. But if he ever wants to talk, Dr. Hyman, if you ever watch this video, happy to talk anytime. So the teenagers reported feeling hungrier after both the intermediate and the high glycemic index meals. But interestingly, only the high GI meal led to overconsumption. The one with the instant oats and the dextrose and the lactase-treated milk, if you remember, only that meal led to eating more after the breakfast. 81% more compared to the low GI meal, the meal with the eggs and the fruits and the vegetables. So the video states this number correctly. But then the video says the steel-cut oats were better, but they still ate 50% more than the folks on the omelet. And that's just a misunderstanding of the study. Because actually the steel-cut oats and the omelet group, in quotes, they don't seem significantly different from each other looking at their data. The 50% difference he's talking about is actually between the instant oats and the steel-cut oats, between the high and the intermediate GI meals. And that's explained right on the first page in the summary of the paper. You don't even need to read the whole study. So if you just watch the video, you come away thinking that the egg group ate less and the two oatmeal groups ate more. When in reality, the omelet and the steel-cut oats groups ate about the same. And it was only that refined higher glycemic index group with the instant oats and the dextrose that ate more than the other two. So this completely changes the interpretation because the video makes it sound like it's all about the macros. That's the conclusion. You want to avoid starch and sugars in the morning and you want to eat fats and protein. But that's not what the study shows. The study indicates that for satiety, the macros actually don't matter that much because the steel-cut oats and the omelet group ate about the same, even though there were differences in macronutrient intake. And what you want to avoid is the more processed oats and the added refined glucose of the high GI group. In fact, the authors say this in the paper. You don't have to take my word for it. Observed differences in energy intake can be primarily attributed to differences in the glycemic index itself because similar differences, although of slightly lesser magnitude, were seen when comparing the instant oatmeal to the steel-cut oatmeal. So it's not so much about whether you eat some starch or some carbs or some oatmeal in the morning. It's about the quality of the foods, the level of refinement, and whether you add processed refined sugars or not. Okay, what if we just compare eggs to oats without adding all these other things, right? Without adding half a kilo of fruits and vegetables to the eggs and without adding refined sugars to the oatmeal side. What happens then? Well, this has been done more than once, actually. One study gave these different breakfasts to people and assessed their level of satiety in the hours that followed. Oatmeal made with rolled oats and low-fat milk, no other additives, had a satiety index of 209 and the higher the index, the more satiating the food. And then poached eggs, calorie matched, same number of calories, had an index of 150. Now, it's not clear if this difference is significant. They didn't do a statistical comparison between the two head-to-head. So maybe they're about the same, but oats clearly weren't less satiating by this metric. Also, this is the average of all the participants. Of course, we know individual results vary. Some people find eggs more satiating. Some people find oats more satiating. And finally, bear in mind that all of these studies we've looked at so far are short-term. Just look at the hours following a meal. So that might not reflect long-term behavior. That's a major limitation. So there's one randomized control trial that compared a daily breakfast of either eggs or oats. And that was done daily for six weeks. And their BMI and blood work was not significantly different between the groups. With one exception, their cholesterol level was lower on the oats. So, to summarize, the main idea is put forward in the video. And the conclusion of the video is not supported by the study cited. You could even argue that the study contradicts the conclusion of the video. Number two, both eggs and unprocessed oats, like steel-cut oats or rolled oats, can be a healthy breakfast and can be part of a healthy diet. With room for personalization. Depends on personal preference and circumstances. So can we all just stop with the social media circus of trying to bend science to fit personal preference? It's so obvious. It's so transparent. And finally, a study in 12 people that follows them for maybe 24 hours. I'd call that an interesting pilot or curious findings to be repeated in larger studies. I wouldn't hail a study like that as profound in a podcast to millions of people who don't have scientific training and start giving sweeping dietary advice based on that. Fear-mongering over oats is actually incredibly common on the internet. It's kind of Influencer 101. And nine times out of ten, when you dig one millimeter below the surface, you find out they didn't read the study. Almost every single time. We saw another example of that phenomenon with the glucose goddess, which I fact-checked in this previous video. So check it out and I'll see you in there.